MS&AD Integrated Report 2018 The MS&AD Insurance Group’ s Mission, Vision & Values Our Mission The Group’s Raison d'être To contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and financial services business. Our Vision The Group’s aspirations for the medium term To create a world-leading insurance and financial services group that consistently pursues sustainable growth and enhances corporate value. Our Values The credo for all employees aimed at realizing the Group’s mission Striving to provide security and satisfaction CUSTOMER FOCUS to our customers Being sincere, kind and fair in our dealings INTEGRITY with people Growing together as a team by respecting TEAMWORK one another’s individuality and opinions and sharing knowledge and ideas Always improving the way we work while INNOVATION responding to stakeholders’ interests Providing high-quality services by constantly PROFESSIONALISM enhancing our skills and proficiency 000 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS Three Key Concepts of the MS&AD Integrated Report 2018 Creating shared value with society through the insurance business The primary role of insurance is to help stabilize people’s lives and to support the steady progress of corporate activities through the payment of compensation for damages in cases of emergency. Since ancient times, non-life insurance has helped people overcome challenges. In the future, a succession of developing fields can be expected to emerge as successful efforts are made to address a wide range of risks in such areas as new energy development, AI, robotics and regenerative medicine. The MS&AD Insurance Group is committed to supporting people overcome challenges and realizing a resilient and sustainable society. Aiming to be a resilient and sustainable group by leveraging diversity In order to realize a resilient and sustainable society, it is imperative that we as a group first possess these same characteristics. Against the backdrop of an operating environment that continues to fluctuate wildly, it is important that we make the most of diversity and stimulate innovation in order to promptly address risks while overcoming uncertainties. Moving forward, we will counter new risks as they arise as well as existing risks that continue to grow in scale and complexity by leveraging the various histories, cultures, characteristics, expertise and other attributes of Group companies. Realizing sustainable growth by supporting the development of society Recently, society has been severely affected by such global-scale issues as climate change and an aging population as well as the incidence of massive natural catastrophes and a decline in regional vitality. Our role is to ensure that people can lead safe and secure lives while helping to revitalize the economy by supporting companies in their efforts to engage in vibrant activities. Since its foundation, the MS&AD Insurance Group has maintained the unwavering goal of becoming a world-leading insurance and financial services group. Moving forward, we will work to realize this goal and secure sustainable growth by contributing to the resolution of social issues throughout the world as well as the development of society. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 001 Contents CEO Message CEO Message ・ ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.004 The MS&AD Insurance Group’s Mission, Vision and Values ・ ・・・・・・・・・P.000 Special Feature The MS&AD’s Story of Value Creation・ ・P.012 Who We Are Five Business Domains ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・P.016 Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society・ ・・・・・・・・・・P.060 What the MS&AD Insurance Group is MS&AD's Strengths: Scale・ ・・・・・・・・・P.018 MS&AD's Strengths: History ・ ・・・・・・・P.020 Creating Shared Value ・ ・・・・・・・P.062 MS&AD's Strengths: Diversity ・ ・・・・・・P.022 World Map of Natural Catastrophes in 2017 ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.067 MS&AD's Strengths: Innovation・ ・・・・・P.024 MS&AD's Strengths: Sustainability・ ・・・P.025 Dialogue with Our Stakeholders・ ・P.068 MS&AD's Path to Realizing Financial and Non-Financial Highlights ・ ・・P.044 Our Image of Society・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.026 Key Management Indicators and Medium-Term Management Plan ー Reviewing the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) ・ ・・・・・P.046 previous plans since the Group's founding・ ・・P.028 Strategies by Business Domain ・ ・・・・・P.048 Our Way Risks and Opportunities・ ・・・・・・・・・・・P.030 Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business ・・P.048 New Medium-Term Management Plan: Domestic Life Insurance Business ・ Where we are heading ・P.050 Vision 2021・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.032 International Business・ ・・・・・・・・・・・P.052 Financial and Capital Strategy ・ ・・・・・・P.040 Risk-Related Services Business ・ ・・・P.056 Towards Sustainable Growth and Achieving Targets Financial Services Business ・ ・・・・・・P.058 for Group Adjusted ROE and Group Adjusted Profit ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.042 Asset Management Strategy ・ ・・・・・・・P.059 Human Asset Development Corporate Governance ERM and Quality Improvement Corporate Governance・・ P.077 Our Platform ERM and Promoting Diversity in Introduction to Directors・・ P.081 Frameworks and Risk Management・・・・・・P.070 Human Assets・・・・・・・・・P.074 Message from systems supporting Promotion of Quality That Earns Outside Director ・・・・・・ P.084 our value creation Compliance ・・・・・・・・・・・P.073 the Trust of Society・・・・・P.076 Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors・・・・・・・・・ P.086 Appendix Basic Knowledge about the Insurance Industry ・ ・・・P.088 Glossary of Insurance Terminology ・ ・・・P.092 Data Section Corporate Profile ・ ・・・・・・・・・・P.098 Credit Ratings ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・P.112 Performance Record ・ ・・・・・・・P.121 History of the MS&AD Insurance Group Group Company Data Sheets ・ ・P.113 ESG Evaluation ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・P.187 in Japan・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・P.104 Short Commentary: Group Financial Statements・ ・・P.120 Third-Party Assurance ・ ・・・・・・P.188 Group Network・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・P.106 Editorial Policy The MS&AD Group publishes the Integrated Report to provide customers, shareholders, investors, and all other stakeholders with a deeper understanding of our initiatives aimed at solving the challenges faced by society and at increasing corporate value throughout the business. This Report was edited based on the International Integrated Reporting Framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation provided by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in order to explain our business model-based story of value creation and the Group strengths that serve as the source of our competitive ability in an easy to understand manner. The MS&AD Integrated Report 2018 takes up the new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021,” which was launched in the current fiscal year, in order to explain our strategies and specific initiatives designed to facilitate sustainable growth towards realizing the image of society for which we are aiming. At the same time, the Report provides an explanation of the management platforms that support these initiatives. For further detailed information, please visit the MS&AD official website. (For a guide to the relationship between this report and our website, please refer to the explanation on the following page) 002 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS MS&AD Disclosure Framework For further detailed information on the MS&AD Insurance Group, please refer to the information on the Company’s official website. MS&AD Integrated Report MS&AD Official Website https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/index.html CEO Message About MS&AD Group https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/group.html Message from the President MS&AD’s Story of Value Creation Who We Are Who We Are What the MS&AD Insurance Group is Our Strengths Management Plans and Policies Company Information Our Way https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/company.html Where we are heading Holding Company New Medium-Term Management Plan: Vision 2021 Group: Group Structure ⇒Official website of each Strategies by Business Domain group company Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Our Platform Sustainability Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/csr.html ERM Contributing to Resolution of Social Issues through Human Asset Development and Quality Improvement the Business Enhancing the Quality of Corporate Governance Products and Services Respect for Human Rights Promoting Diversity in Human Assets and Health Management Data Section Investor Relations https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/ir.html Corporate Profile Performance Record INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 003 CEO Message Learning from our experience and track record of more than 100 years and rapidly responding to challenges stemming from societal changes, we pledge to continue to contribute to society for the next 100 years. President & CEO Yasuyoshi Karasawa Photographed at the rooftop garden of 004 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Surugadai Building CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section CEO Message Two goals in the medium-term management plan, “Vision 2021” What the Group aims at in order to realize “a resilient and sustainable society” The MS&AD Insurance Group was founded in April 2010 with the objective of “creating a world-leading ESR (Economic Solvency Ratio) insurance and financial services group”. Subsequently, we experienced the Great East Japan Earthquake A solvency ratio based on in March 2011, there were devastating floods in Thailand where many Japanese firms have factories, economic value, ESR is an and the Group saw its first loss in fiscal 2011. At the time, as the combined ratio of domestic non-life indicator of capital adequacy with respect to the risk insurance business exceeded 100% and insurance underwriting did not yield profits, the occurrence of amount. such massive natural disasters led the ESR (economic solvency ratio), which is an index of financial See the “Establishment soundness, to fall below 150%, reaching a dangerous zone. of financial soundness” section (P. 28) for details In the previous medium-term management plan “Next Challenge 2017”, which tried to extricate the Group from such a situation, profits from domestic non-life insurance businesses improved markedly. As for integration within the Group, we opted for “reorganization by function” in order to simultaneously Historically High Damage from Natural Disasters achieve growth and efficiency. To this end, we clarified the concept of each company. Thus, while Mitsui In fiscal 2017, considerable Sumitomo Insurance has a global and comprehensive business model, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance’s damage was caused by model is based on close relationships with local communities. Through the division of roles, including natural disasters around the class of insurance, sales channels, and sales territories, coupled with overseas expansion, the Group has world, with several typhoons and torrential rainfall in Japan, been able to amplify its comprehensive strength. As a result, last year, which was the final year of our hurricanes in the U.S., management plan “Next Challenge 2017”, the combined ratio of the domestic non-life insurance wildfires in California, and massive earthquakes in business recovered to 92%. In addition, while the insurance market as a whole experienced historic high Mexico. (According to a insurance claims due to hurricanes in North America and typhoons in Japan, our Group’s ESR survey by Swiss Re, insured loss totaled ¥15 trillion.) maintained about 200%, enhancing financial soundness to a level that will be unshaken even under See the “World Map of considerable stress. Natural Catastrophes” In the Group’s new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021”, which builds on such results, two section (P. 67) for details big goals are set. One is to become a world-leading insurance and financial services group, which the Group has been aiming at since its birth. Specifically, this means achieving a scale that is consistently Fortune Global 500 ranked among the top ten non-life insurance groups by income in the property & casualty insurance A ranking of global companies by gross income category of the Fortune Global 500. This also means achieving a quality with a certain level of capital that is released every year by efficiency (Group Adjusted ROE of 10%) and financial soundness (ESR of 180-220%). As an insurance Fortune magazine. company, in order to underwrite various risks and prepare to meet claims in case of emergency, it is See the “Positioning in Each Business Domain” necessary to secure sufficient capacity. Currently, the scale of the MS&AD Group is ranked 8th in the section (P. 18) for details world, which is the highest ranking among Japan’s non-life insurance groups. While maintaining this position, we would like to steadily boost quality-related KPIs. The other goal is to create resilient systems that can swiftly respond to any change in these times of Resilient Systems rapid environmental flux. Due to the sudden emergence of new risks, existing risks becoming big not to A posture with the ability to flexibly and adroitly respond mention complex, and changes in social structure, the needs of society change. Here, our mission is to to changing situations and support the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet through unforeseen circumstances, insurance and financial services business. Needless to say, to quickly detect changes in the world and to reduce adverse effects and speedily recover. be able to appropriately respond to them, we ourselves have to become a resilient and sustainable group. Reorganization by Function Key strategies to achieve the two goals Reorganization by function is an unprecedented style of restructuring for achieving Pursuing the Group’s comprehensive strengths ─ growth and higher efficiency concurrently for the entire Finding the optimal solution for the Group as a whole that realizes growth Group, including Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance, and efficiency simultaneously while mutually leveraging individual strengths and clarifying the business concepts We have three non-life insurance companies (including direct type insurance) and two life insurance of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance. companies in Japan, and networks of subsidiaries, affiliates, and others in 47 countries and regions. See the “Glossary of Each company, under a clear business concept, gauges respective customer needs and aims at realizing Insurance Terminology” seamless growth ─ this was the concept of Group integration in the form of reorganization by function. section (P. 95) for details INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 005 Based on this concept, we have mostly completed system integration, shared back offices, integrated bases and sales networks in specific regions, and reorganized the international business and marine insurance between the two core non-life insurance companies during the first half of the management plan “Next Challenge 2017” . In the second half, we promoted the sharing of products and Integration of Claims operating procedures as well as the integration of claims service systems, all in the pursuit of further Service Systems efficiency. Steps have been taken to consolidate long-term third-sector policies in force on Mitsui This initiative is a part of Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance. reorganization by function that commenced in stage 2 In the new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021”, we will expand such developments of Next Challenge 2017. to the entire Group and, through exercising the Group’s comprehensive strength, realize further cost Plans call for rolling out the new claims service system reductions and qualitative improvements. We will pursue a business model of total optimization (BRIDGE), which was jointly which simultaneously realizes growth and efficiency of the Group. developed by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance, from fiscal 2019. Promotion of digitalization ─ Real-time and tailor-made insurance products and services reflecting the customer perspective Digitalization One purpose in promoting digitalization is to raise productivity, but we believe it is rather more Digitalization is an initiative to important “to deliver greater ‘value’ to the customer experience”. In offering products and services use digital technology to improve the efficiency and and expanding sales channels, we will pursue real-time and tailor-made features for customers. convenience of processes For example, we expect to build even better and closer relationships with customers when and services, with the aim of digitalization enables us to create mechanisms to customize types of insurance, the scope of transforming all the businesses of the Group. compensation, and insurance premiums. To that end, it is crucial to take a futuristic approach such as open innovation. We intend to accelerate productivity improvement and raise the level of services by forming alliances with external institutions and different businesses, including industry-government-universities, investing in startups in Silicon Valley, and conducting joint research with our overseas partner companies. To pursue these initiatives, speedy decision making is required. To promote digitalization Group CDO strategy more effectively throughout our Group, we have appointed a Group CDO (Chief (Chief Digitalization Officer) Digitalization Officer) from this fiscal year. Through this arrangement, we will rapidly propel The Group CDO oversees initiatives that lead to reform of the entire business. departments in charge of promoting digitalization at each Group company around Reforming our portfolio ─ the world, sets up projects, and promotes initiatives to Aiming at diversifying regions and businesses from the perspective of risk diversification transform businesses through mutual collaboration During the period of our management plan “Vision 2021”, we intend to diversify our business across the Group. portfolio by initially aiming at achieving 50% profit from the domestic non-life insurance business and 50% from the domestic life insurance and international businesses combined; and, as a next step, we aim at raising the profit of our international business to 50% of Group profit. The domestic non-life insurance business, which generates most of the Group’s profit as of now, will aim at keeping a combined ratio of 95% or lower and maintain and expand the profit level to secure about 50% of entire Group profit during this medium-term management plan period. In the future, transitioning to a portfolio from which 50% of profits are generated through the international business will become vital in maintaining a sound financial platform and earnings power. 006 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section CEO Message In the domestic life insurance business, profits of the two life insurance companies have become stable through aggressively developing and selling products that meet market needs, and they are expected to generate about ¥45 billion on an annual basis during the term of the management plan “Vision 2021”. The international business is expected to achieve annual profit of more than ¥100 billion through organic growth by fiscal 2021. Although MS Amlin registered severe financial results in fiscal 2017, the sum of profit of Amlin/Lloyd’s syndicate and the reinsurance subsidiary of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance before integration was about ¥40 billion. While not a simple calculation as the risk amount of natural disasters was restrained because of integration, we can foresee that MS Amlin business will generate profit of about ¥45 billion considering cost reductions, initiatives currently being pursued to recover profitability, and synergies with Asian and US businesses. In addition, the Toyota retail business, being undertaken by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance, will see Close Relationship with Toyota Motor profit expand, and, through a close relationship with Toyota Motor Corporation, steadily develop Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance international business. In such a manner, the growth platform of international business to meet the aims to establish a business target has already been put firmly in place. model that taps into new needs and markets, and regards its relationship with the Toyota Motor Group as Three perspectives and disciplines in conducting M&A an important growth strategy. For example, the company is working with Toyota Motor to Insurance is a business of trust; it requires sustained determination; jointly develop attractive products and services in tune it is essential to have a mission at the core with changes in the automobile industry, including In the management plan “Vision 2021,” we have laid the foundations for 50% of Group Adjusted the use of telematics and advanced safety Profit to be generated from international business in succeeding medium-term management plans, technologies. including both organic growth and inorganic growth. We have three requirements in conducting M&A. The first is that a counterpart should share the Investment in BoCommLife same values as us. It is important for each firm to have empathy for the principles and philosophy Insurance Company Limited of China (such as the actual aims of insurance business) of the other. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance has The second is that a counterpart should have a sustainable growth model. The investment in reached an agreement with the China’s BoCommLife Insurance, announced in May 2018, is a good example. In the case of China's life insurance subsidiary of a leading Australian bank to life insurance business, it was important to have a solid sales structure. Because BoCommLife purchase 37.5% of shares in Insurance is an affiliate of the Bank of Communications, it can offer sales through the bank’s branch BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary network. If we provide good products using our know-how and create a good training system, it can of Bank of Communications surely achieve growth through its own network. Also, since it is a bank affiliate, the risk of itself Co., Ltd. in China. Growth is exiting is low and therefore it is considered a sustainable business model. expected in China, the third largest life insurance market in The third is the diversification of risks. It is important whether risks are diversified according to the world, after the U.S. and domestic or overseas, non-life or life insurance, regions, and perils. Japan. Meeting these three requirements is essential, and, if there is a good project with economic Peril rationality, we will deal with it pro-actively. Also, from perspectives of capital leeway and the effective Peril is a specific cause of utilization of capital, M&A is a strategically high priority option for our Group. loss covered by an insurance policy. Focus on Asia is a key of the Group’s growth strategy Position in Asia that has been built over many years leads to global development The original role of insurance is to support stability in people's lives and dynamic business activities by compensating for economic losses when risks actually manifest themselves. Our Group has contributed to the development of the non-life insurance industry in Asia by making early advances into the area and transferring technology/know-how related to pricing and claims payments to the insurance industry in each particular country. Currently, we do underwriting business in all 10 ASEAN countries and have the largest network as a non-life insurance group. The population of ASEAN is about 640 million now, but, from a mediumto long-term perspective, the growth potential of ASEAN due to population growth and the formation of a middle class is considered quite large. In preparation for that time, in our view there is significant meaning behind the Group's growth strategy INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 007 to be among the top three non-life insurers in major ASEAN countries, solidly supporting each country's insurance system and securing a firm presence. These strengths in Asia will also benefit business expansion in other countries and regions where we do not have our own network. For example, in Latin America, the alliance with Mapfre, which is the largest non-life insurance company in Spain, enabled us to develop business that Facility mutually utilizes our facilities in Asia and those of Mapfre in Latin America. We have been running Facility is often used to mean similar business in alignment with QBE, Australia’s largest insurance company, in the Oceania physical facilities, equipment and machines. Here, facility region; with AXA, France’s largest insurance company, in Francophone Africa; and with Generali, refers to the systems and Italy’s largest insurance company, in Central and Eastern Europe. The reason these alliances work organizations for insurance underwriting. well is that our Group has strengths in Asia, and each partner provides its facilities in each region to our Group and in return can utilize the facilities of our Group in Japan and Asia. By making full use of this strength, we believe we can pursue efficient global development. And, what we cannot ignore is China and India, which play a central role in the global economy. Both countries are incorporating digitalization technology into their markets at a tremendous speed and have huge growth potential. In order to develop life and non-life insurance business in these two countries and build firm footholds, it is important to form alliances with good local partners and steadily manage business. Indeed, as for non-life insurance in China, our group has a local subsidiary which has an established presence among foreign insurance companies in China, and we have been forming alliances with China’s domestic second largest Ping An Insurance and third largest China Pacific Insurance. As for life insurance in China, we will develop business together with the Bank of Communications. In India, we will develop non-life insurance business through teaming up with the southern business conglomerate Murugappa Group and develop life insurance business with the New Delhi business conglomerate Max Group. China and India are each expected to be among the largest gigantic markets in the world in the future, and we would like to team up with partners which have a solid foundation backed by local capital, and together develop non-life insurance and life insurance businesses from a leading position in the respective markets. Positioning of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in“Vision 2021” Realizing our mission We have been pursuing our mission “to contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and financial services business”. What further embodies our mission is “the MS&AD story of value creation”. This is a common understanding among all staff and helps us appreciate what our jobs mean in society. We will contribute to realizing “a resilient and sustainable society” through our initiatives to resolve four issues: 1) diversified/large-scale accidents and disasters, 2) the global environment approaching the limit, 3) mounting burden of nursing/medical care associated with aging population, and 4) a decline in social vitality due to widening inequalities. Based on a view that Sustainable Development Goals these initiatives will increase the Group’s corporate value, we have been developing our business In 2015, the United Nations activities in five business domains (domestic non-life insurance, domestic life insurance, adopted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) international business, financial services, and risk-related services). as targets that should be Such a line of thought squares with ‘sustainable development goals’, or SDGs, that the United achieved by 2030 in order to sustain the development of Nations set in 2015 to be achieved by 2030. Therefore, in order to advance value sharing with international society. There various stakeholders, we have incorporated SDGs as our milestones with which to align the are 17 goals and 169 targets Group’s business. that the world should prioritize as issues to be tackled, such Since olden times, insurance has existed to help people, businesses, and local communities to as eliminating poverty and be resilient and sustainable. countering climate change. For example, while claims payments stemming from earthquakes and typhoons served as See P. 13 for details funds for restoring damaged property, what is important is that such payments were indispensable for rehabilitating the livelihoods of those affected and restoring local communities. 008 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section CEO Message To begin with, insurance exists only if there is a sustainable society. For example, among the UN’s SDGs, there is one to “end poverty in all its forms everywhere”. At first glance this appears to have nothing to do with insurance. After all, those who are busy making ends meet on a daily basis and do not have anything they need to protect will not have any strong need for insurance. But, with poverty diminishing and the middle classes increasing, there will be increasing opportunities in which the insurance industry and our Group can offer shared value. Moreover, what is wonderful about SDGs is the participation by everyone. Everyone participates, sets goals, and moves toward them, through which overall optimization will be achieved. We feel strong empathy for the SDG message of “Leaving no one behind” and the basic ideas of universality (every country can change), inclusion (eradicate discrimination), impartiality (consideration for the weak), integration (achieve a balance among the economy, environment, and society), and transparency. Setting SDGs as milestones will be quite meaningful for realizing the society that we should aim for. Diversity & Inclusion Human assets that realize the story of value creation (D&I) In order to maximize the MS&AD Group’s strengths in Promotion of ‘diversity and inclusion’ (D&I) diversity and diverse values, we believe it is essential that each person’s individuality is To realize our mission, vision, and values, creation of shared value (CSV), and the story of value respected, regardless of outward characteristics such creation, it is necessary to nurture a good environment where employees can play active roles in a as race, gender, age and resounding fashion. For this purpose, we must seriously think about our management platforms and physical appearance, nor inward characteristics such various systems and mechanisms. In the sense of preparing platforms to establish D&I, what is most as religion, creed, important will be ‘work style reforms’. Building a platform by which diversified employees can play background and values. While recognizing we are all active roles in a fair manner will be crucial for enhancing corporate competitiveness. To this end, it is different in some way, we will vital to not only reduce working hours but also create a mechanism to raise productivity through focus on the best parts of everyone. utilizing digitalization to the utmost. If the improvement of business processes increases productivity and shifts employees to more value-added work, all employees will be able to feel they are achieving See P. 74 for details ‘decent work’ goals, namely, more job satisfaction. A multinational team in Silicon Valley, consisting of three residential representatives from Japan CSV (Creating Shared Value) and other members ─ including residential representatives and short-stay ─ from our overseas subsidiaries, has been promoting various activities. The other day, the person in charge of the CSV means creating economic value and shared multinational team asked us to think about further diversification of the team in terms of gender, age value with society through and nationality. As there are so many female heads and leaders in Silicon Valley, an organization with corporate activities. no women or only consisting of the Japanese, only young people, or only elderly is seen as odd. Decent Work At our Group’s ASEAN entities, the nationality of employees is diverse, half of all employees are Decent work is defined as women, and half of management positions are also occupied by women. If this tendency becomes work that people are conspicuous in our locations in strategically important Asia, some will point out the contrast with our motivated to do. It refers to productive work in which headquarters in Japan, where management positions are still mainly occupied by men, and overseas, human rights are protected, where half of such positions are taken by women. Unless human assets that reflect diversity of age, sufficient pay is earned, and social protections are careers, nationalities, and gender are able to play active roles, it is difficult to do business overseas. We properly afforded. should make better use of different ideas beyond borders to bolster the comprehensive strengths of the Group; furthermore, we should proactively incorporate wide and more universal ideas from employees, including those with disabilities, in the Group as a whole – such initiatives are essential. For this, we ourselves need to become a flexible organization that can accept diversity, and we need to INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 009 have a culture that includes diverse human assets, each enhancing the other. To nurture such a corporate culture, from this fiscal year we have assigned an executive officer to be in charge of D&I and who will robustly promote D&I initiatives groupwide. In promoting actual D&I initiatives, we believe it effective to set a numeric target first and use Backcasting a backcasting approach. So as to achieve the numeric goal, it is important to thoroughly consider Originally used in the what type of human assets should be recruited, inclusive of mid-career recruitment, what training environmental field, backcasting starts with plans can be offered, and what career paths can be drawn. While Japan is still based on lifetime defining a desirable future employment, the mobility of human assets in a good sense, namely, a person changes jobs, gains and then works backwards to identify policies that will experience, and returns to the old job, could be advanced. In our Group, there are employees connect that specified future returning to us after leaving for a while, and we think that people who have business experience in to the present. other companies are also precious human assets. To entrench D&I, we must be an organization in which mission, vision, and values are shared among all employees. Appointment of future management Next generation who will lead the Group should also be resilient and sustainable While leaders in each Group company and the holding company might be required to have different qualities in some aspects, it is important for all to be able to flexibly respond to the rapidly changing environment, and thus it might be difficult for those trapped in old ideas to become leaders. In addition, it will be necessary to have a capacity to be on the front line, leading the company, as well as tolerance to firmly recognize diversity, and adaptability to convert such diversity into strengths. Moreover, it is important to be evaluated by different people and from different perspectives. And, while we recognize that all current executive officers have the capacity to work at the top, we expect them to try to improve themselves by learning from others. Furthermore, in the future we might consider recruiting executive officers from other companies or our overseas subsidiaries. We need to receive feedback from various viewpoints, including those from outside, and identify human assets that suit the times and situation. Image of the Group eyeing the future Creating shared value (CSV) through insurance business model In our management plan “Vision 2021”, our target is to have a presence in terms of scale and quality as “a world-leading insurance and financial services group”. The reason we focus on scale and quality is that we need to cover new risks and also current risks that have become enormous and complex. Unless we ourselves have scale and quality, we cannot respond to such diverse risks. To achieve “a resilient and sustainable society”, we need to always challenge risks using scale and quality comparable to rival companies. For example, in the course of evolution in the automobile arena, such as automated driving, it is necessary to have insurance that actually corresponds to risks that newly arise. And, in the development of medical technology, such as advanced medical treatment, it is necessary to have insurance to transfer risks. To support someone who is challenging something we as a Group need to be resilient, and being resilient underlines the importance of maintaining a high level of quality. By 2030 and after, we will be required to always challenge various risks that arise in the process of aiming at achieving “a resilient and sustainable society”, and we have to build up our strength to fully bear such risks. 010 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section CEO Message We will generate global-scale value that leads to a bright future. Sensing the emergence of risks beforehand and informing customers and giving advice to prevent or reduce such risks is also, like providing risk cover through insurance, an important role we fulfill. For example, thrashing out risks surrounding business activities and providing a risk map, providing know-how regarding initiatives for disaster prevention and reduction will lead to realizing a society in which companies can develop stably. The lowering of insurance premiums coupled with disaster prevention and reduction activities, and a mechanism like telematics which provides incentives to drive safely, will contribute to realizing a society with fewer accidents. And, incentives to stop smoking through lower life insurance premiums will lead to longevity and a healthier society and support realizing a sustainable society. Along with our Group’s value creation story, if we can detect risks and make them known, prevent accidents and losses, develop a system to minimize damage, and utilize digital technologies, we will be able to continue to provide insurance and financial services that contribute to a resilient and sustainable society. From a global perspective, mainly in emerging economies, it is important to consider and make proposals as to what kind of insurance is necessary under each country’s system. Through explaining Japan’s residential earthquake and compulsory automobile liability insurance systems as well as operations of the General Insurance Rating Organization of Japan, making proposals as to how to construct a mechanism corresponding to the situation for each country, and advising how to set up self-help efforts and disaster prevention and reduction measures, we can contribute to resolving societal issues each respective country faces. Concluding remarks Old Proverb: Kochi ha Sessoku ni Shikazu Looking globally, the environment surrounding companies has recently been changing every “It is better to be fast, even if second, such as changes in the global environment, demographics, and industrial structure, the performance is poor, than slow with good emergence of populism and widening inequalities in society, the evolution of IT, and emergence of performance.” This proverb new risks. In the business world, we need to promptly sense such changes and convert risks into came from the wise words of military strategist Sun Tzu, “In opportunities. As was implied by Sun Tzu that it is sometimes better to be brisk and slapdash than war, it is better to move painstaking but slow, it is important to take the first step ahead of competitors on a global basis. quickly and finish quickly, even if tactics are poor.” This While it is not easy to step into uncharted territory, we have a history of more than 100 years and means that depending on we will be able to predict the future through experience and track record of those years. We the situation, it may be preferable to move things believe our group can contribute to society for the next 100 years centering on a strong sense of forward quickly, even without values built on past successes and lessons. skill, instead of sitting still. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 011 The MS&AD’ s Story of Value Creation “Contribute to the Development of a Vibrant Society and Help Secure a Sound Future for the Planet” The MS&AD Insurance Group was formed with three groups of insurance companies being integrated with the mission “to contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and financial services business.” To fulfill our aim to “contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet,” we need to promptly identify various risks stemming from social issues and provide information on these risks. Then, through a variety of products and services, we need to prevent risks from occurring or minimize the impact of those risks and to reduce the economic burden when those risks materialize. By doing so, we help create an environment where customers around the globe, who face various challenges, can live and conduct business in a secure manner. That is our story of value creation. The MS&AD Insurance Group, together with its stakeholders, will continue to seek sustainable growth and enhance corporate value. And, through creating a world-leading insurance and financial services group, we will pursue value creation around the globe. 012 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is 4 Four Social Issues From among the many social issues, the MS&AD Insurance Group Level of contribution to 3 society’s sustainability has selected four social issues where the Group can make a 2 significant contribution, based on an analysis of their importance to the Group and the degree of interest among stakeholders. 1 Our efforts to solve these issues also align with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* and lead to value creation. 1 2 3 4 Level of impact on the long-term growth * This refers to the Sustainable of the MS&AD Insurance Group Development Goals, which include 17 goals and 169 targets related to poverty, health, and climate change, etc., that were stated in the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” adopted 1 Diversified/large-scale accidents and disasters at the UN Sustainable Development Global environment approaching the limit Summit in September 2015. For details, refer to the “Glossary of Insurance 2 (Climate change and depletion of resources, etc.) Terminology” on P. 96. Mounting burden of nursing/medical care associated 3 with aging population 4 Decline in social vitality due to widening inequalities Initiatives for Seven Key Issues (Creating Shared Value) Deal with new risks Create a safer mobility society Strive for resilient community development Support “good health and longevity” Contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation Strive to improve the sustainability of natural capital Work toward realization of “leaving no one behind” *See P. 27 for examples of specific initiatives. Please refer to details of analysis on the Company’s official website: https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/csr/summary/materiality.html. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 013 The MS&AD's Story of Value Creation Contributing to the Development and Helping Secure a Resources Resources Supporting Supporting MS&AD MS&AD Social Issues Diverse risks surrounding society Diversified/large-scale accidents Financial Capital MS&AD’s 1 and disasters Sufficient and sound financial base enabling 2 Global environment approaching the limit Strengths ● the underwriting of customers’ risks (Climate change and depletion of resources, etc.) Mounting burden of nursing/medical ¥2,968.3 billion Consolidated net assets 3 care associated with aging population (as of March 31, 2018): Decline in social vitality due to 4 widening inequalities Human Capital ● Global and diverse human assets Scale ● Professional human assets with sophisticated Adequate capacity expertise related to insurance, risks, etc. derived from scale Consolidated number of employees (as of March 31, 2018): 41,295 MS&AD's Intellectual Capital Business Model ● Expertise and trustworthiness supported by a lengthy business history and experience History ● Most abundant risk data in Japan and the ASEAN region Past experience and Number of risk surveys conducted (FY2017): 1,189 lessons are the seeds of the future Reduce the Social and Relationship Capital economic burden ● No. 1 in the scale of its customer base in Japan Number of individual customers in Japan*1: Approx. 42 million Diversity Creativity and Number of corporate customers in Japan*1: Approx. 2.4 million synergies derived from diversity Identify and ● No. 1 in gross premiums written in the ASEAN region inform on risks ● No. 1 in the size of its agent network in Japan Number of domestic non-life insurance agents*1: 88,532 Innovation Realizing growth Domestic marketing Prevent risks bases*2: 263 branches/1,036 offices in tune with the times from occurring/ minimize Domestic claims handling service centers*3: 431 the impact ● Overseas bases*4: 47 countries/regions Sustainability *1 Simple sum of the number of customers and the number of agents at MSI and ADI Always align (as of March 31, 2018) with society *2 Simple sum of the number of bases at domestic insurance companies (as of April 1, 2018) *3 Simple sum of the number of claims handling service centers at domestic non-life insurance companies (as of April 1, 2018) *4 Includes SLI Cayman Limited (financial services business) in the Cayman Islands (as of April 1, 2018) ● Relationships with leading companies in other sectors, Systems Supporting including the Toyota Group, the Nippon Life Group, the Mitsui Group and the Sumitomo Group Resilient systems Optimum resource Natural Capital that can respond allocation and to changing appropriate ● Stable global climate system environment risk management ● Preservation of biodiversity in nature ● Sustainable natural resources Medium-Term ERM Management Plan P. 32 PP. 38, 70 014 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is of a Vibrant Society Creating Value in Cooperation Sound Future for the Planet with Stakeholders (results of FY2017) Customers Shareholders Agents Business Partners Employees Local Communities/International Society Environment Financial Capital Initiatives for ● Increase capital efficiency Group Core Profit: Seven Key Issues ● Increase Group Core Profit (Group Adjusted Profit ¥201.0 billion ) ¥ 105.1billion Resilient and ● Returns to shareholders sustainable society * Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is the ratio calculated by dividing the return Group ROE: (Group Adjusted ROE 6.4％) 3.7% ・ Stability in people's lives (dividends and capital gains) on ・ Dynamic business investments in stocks over a specified period by the share price (investment amount). TSR* of past 5 years: 84.7% activities Deal with new risks Human Capital Provision of safety ● ● Provide working environments that offer greater amenities and support personal growth Provide employment that is stable and gives due consideration to work-life balance and peace of mind Safer mobility Employee Days of paid vacation society satisfaction level:*1 4.4points used per employee/year:*2 16.0 *1 This measures the level of employees’ feeling pride or job satisfaction. (The figure is an average for all employees based on a survey of employees–6 points represents perfect satisfaction.) *2 Average number of vacation days acquired by all employees with respect to “regular/carryover vacation days” as well as “special vacation days” Global insurance / financial services business Strive for resilient Five Business Domains community development Intellectual Capital ● Foster the development of employees with high levels of specialized expertise Domestic Non-Life ● Provide products and services that respond to changing and diverse customer needs Insurance Business ● Provide society with risk-related surveys and research results International Business P. 48 Domestic Life Good health and longevity Research reports issued:*1 72 Number of actuaries:*2 100 Insurance Business *1 We issued reports on diverse subjects including CSR, corporate risks, BCM, workers’ P. 50 compensation risks, transportation risks, overseas crisis management information, and infectious disease information. Financial *2 Number of professional actuaries employed by MS&AD Group with specialized skills for making full use of probability, statistical and other mathematical techniques used in product development, Services Business risk management, financial soundness confirmation, and other processes (as of April 1, 2018) P. 58 Climate change Risk-Related mitigation and Services Business adaptation Social Capital P. 56 P. 52 ● Disburse insurance payment of claims and benefits appropriately and speedily ● Provide services to prevent accidents and disasters from occurring Improve the ● Provide a high-quality and diverse agent network sustainability of ● Fulfill corporate social responsibility through cooperative relationships natural capital with business partners ● Provide products and services that protect such social capital as social infrastructure, government services, etc. Leave no one behind Insurance claims paid*1 ¥ 2,311.2 billion Customer satisfaction:*2 96.0％ *1 This represents the sum of net claims paid and life insurance claims. (FY2017) *2 Ratio of customers satisfied with accident response for automobile insurance (MSI and ADI) (FY2017) Corporate Value Creation Natural Capital ● Reduce CO2 emissions to slow the pace of climate change Management platforms ● Contribute to the preservation of biodiversity ● Reduce the burden to allow sustainable use of natural resources that enable employees Strengthening to play active roles; corporate Amount of paper reduced by web policy Employees participating and quality governance improvement clauses*1 and eco insurance policies: 981,984kg in social contribution activities*2: 20,022 *1 Policy clauses are made available online instead of using printed material, making them Human Asset Development Corporate Governance environmentally friendly. and Quality Improvement *2 Number of employees who make donations or participate in volunteer activities as an P. 74 P. 77 individual or part of the company. (excluding employees overseas) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 015 Five Business Domains Providing products and services tailored to match customers’ increasingly diverse risks and needs Group Core Profit ■ Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business ■ Domestic Life Insurance Business ■ International Business ■ Financial Services Business/Risk-Related Services Business Group Core Profit （¥ billion） 250 213.7 200 155.7 147.5 150 105.1 100 50 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） -50 -100 -150 016 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business P. 48 No. 1 position in the domestic non-life insurance market, making groupwide efforts to comprehensively meet diverse customer needs Domestic Life Insurance Business P. 50 Leveraging the distinctive strengths of two group companies in protection-type and asset-building products International Business P. 52 An overseas network covering 46 countries and regions* – No. 1 in terms of non-life gross premiums written in the * Excluding the Cayman Islands, where SLI Cayman Limited (Financial Services Business) is located. (As of April 1, 2018) ASEAN region Financial Services Business P. 58 MS&AD Loan Services Co., Ltd. Leveraging the full range of its capabilities as an insurance MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Venture Capital Co., Ltd. and financial services group to provide new financial products and services Risk-Related Services Business P. 56 Creating synergies with the insurance business by MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Care Network Co., Ltd. deploying global risk solution services Fureai Do-Life Services Co., Ltd. MS&AD Business Support Co., Ltd. MS&AD Business Service Co., Ltd. MS&AD Group companies that support the MS&AD Staffing Service Co., Ltd. five business domains MS&AD Systems Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 017 Scale Adequate capacity MS&AD’s Strengths: Scale derived from scale Positioning in Each Business Domain No. 8 Groupwide in the world No. 8 among non-life insurance groups in the world ▶Fortune Global 500: 2017 Income Ranking (Ordinary income basis for Japanese insurance groups) (US$ million) Company/Group Name Income Company/Group Name Income 1 Berkshire Hathaway $223,604 6 People’s Insurance Co. of China $66,732 2 Allianz $122,196 7 AIG $52,367 3 State Farm Insurance Cos. $76,132 8 MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings $49,239 4 Munich Re Group $68,700 9 Tokio Marine Holdings $48,292 5 Zurich Insurance Group $67,245 10 Swiss Re $43,786 Source: Fortune Global 500 2017 Insurance Property & Casualty (Stock + Mutual) No. 1 No. 1 Domestic Non-Life Share Underwriting Insurance Business profit The insurance group most chosen ▶Underwriting profit (prior to reflecting catastrophe reserves)* by customers in Japan (¥ billion) ■ MS&AD ■ Company A Group ■ Company B Group No. 1 share in all lines of business in Japan 250 ▶Share of Net Premiums Written* (FY2017) 203.1 200 Others 173.0 13% 133.9 MS&AD 150 125.6 118.0 128.3 33% 127.4 100 75.7 76.8 Company B Group ¥8,380.6 billion 50 26% Company A Group 0 28% FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 *Figures for MS&AD are the simple sum of the non-consolidated figures for MSI Sources: Prepared by MS&AD based on publicly announced information from each and ADI; simple sum of non-consolidated group figures excluding direct insurance insurance company and data from the General Insurance Association of Japan. companies of each group * MS&AD figures are simple sums of figures for MSI, ADI, Mitsui Direct General, and au Source: Prepared by MS&AD based on the publicly announced information from Insurance Company each company * Figures for other insurance groups are simple sums of non-consolidated figures for domestic companies in each group. * Figures are presented exclusive of the Good Results Return premiums of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance’s proprietary “ModoRich” automobile insurance product, which contains a special clause for premium adjustment and refund at maturity (same hereinafter). The largest sales / We are pursuing competitive advantages of scale based on our powerful non-life insurance sales channels covering multiple market segments and our nationwide customer base in Japan sales/claims support (service) network. See P. 14 for details. 018 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is Domestic Life No. among 29 companies 8 No. 1 Net income among life insurance companies Insurance Business and groups under non-life insurance groups No. 8 in premiums income among domestic ▶Net income of life insurance companies under three non-life insurance groups life insurance companies/groups (¥ billion) ■ MS&AD ■ Company L ■ Company M ▶Domestic life insurance companies/groups' 40 premiums and others ranking (FY2017) 34.4 (¥ trillion) Company C Group 5.18 30 Company D 4.23 23.9 25.2 Company E Group 3.95 20 Company F 2.71 14.7 15.5 Company G Group 2.53 11.6 Company H Group 2.43 10 8.78.3 8.7 8.3 8.1 Company I 1.78 MS&AD Group 1.55 Company J Group 1.47 0 Company K 1.44 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Source: Prepared by MS&AD based on the publicly announced information from Source: Prepared by MS&AD based on the publicly announced information from each company each company 1 2 *Values for groups are calculated based on the non-consolidated sums of each group company No. No. in gross written premiums in Lloyd's1 International in the ASEAN region Insurance2Market3 Business ・With global business expansion to 46 countries and regions*1, ・As the Group's U.K.-based insurance holding company, MS especially in Asia, and as the world’s only global non-life Amlin is a principal player as a syndicate*2 with Lloyd's of insurance group with a presence in all 10 ASEAN countries, London*3, the world's most-influential insurance market, where the Group maintains the No. 1 presence for gross written it is ranked second (among 95 syndicates) with respect to premiums in the ASEAN region. gross written premiums * 1 Excludes SLI Cayman Limited (financial services business) in the Cayman Islands *2 *3 See Terminology P. 94 ▶Positioning in non-life insurance market ▶Lloyd’s syndicate Gross Written Premiums ranking in ASEAN and Asian countries (FY2016) FY2016 Gross Written No.1 No.2 No.3 Syndicate No. Premiums Ranking in Company Company (£ billion) ASEAN Countries MS&AD N O 2003 2.3 2001 Korea 18th （MS Amlin） 2.0 4472 1.6 PR China 2nd*2 2987 1.5 Taiwan 4th Hong Kong 11th 2623 1.5 Myanmar ASEAN Countries Macau India 6th* 2 Laos 4th*3 510 1.4 Vietnam 15th Thailand 5th Cambodia 3rd 2999 1.1 Malaysia 3rd Brunei 33 1.1 Sri Lanka Philippines 4th Singapore 1st*1 4444 1.1 Indonesia 11th 2007 0.9 Source: Prepared by MS&AD based on the publicly announced corporate information Source: Lloyd’s Annual Report 2017 from each country and region (reinsurance companies excluded) Based on gross written premiums for FY2017 *1 Simple sum ranking for FY2016 results with First Capital *2 Ranking for foreign-based insurance companies *3 Because data for FY2016 was not publicly available, the FY2015 ranking for Laos is shown INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 019 History Past experience and MS&AD’s Strengths: History lessons are the seeds of the future ● Partnerships with leading companies in ● Greatest accumulation of risk related other sectors, including the Toyota Group, data in Japan and the ASEAN region the Nippon Life Group, the Mitsui Group ● Expertise and data acquired through experience with the large natural ● and the Sumitomo Group Partnerships with insurance agents and Past disasters to date insurance brokers supported by long-standing relationships of trust and Expertise and trustworthiness supported Robust customer and marketing base founded seeds by 125 long years of history on long-term relationship and experience building 1934: Started direct underwriting in Thailand as the first Japanese insurer Mitsui Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1943) Shin Nihon Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (1991) (established 1920） Taisho Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1941) (merged 1944) (established 1918) Osaka Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1942) (established 1893) Osaka Sumitomo Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Osaka Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1944) Osaka Fire, Marine & Transport Insurance Co., Ltd. Osaka Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (1954) Settsu Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Settsu (established 1919) Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 1976: Sumitomo First in the industry to handle auto Fuso Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. claims in an integrated manner for (established 1917) compulsory automobile liability Fuso Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. insurance and automobile insurance Toshin Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1920) Dai-Tokyo Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1944) Tokyo Movable Property Fire Insurance Company Dai-Tokyo (established 1918) Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Otaru Cargo Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Fukoku Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1944) (established 1897) Nisshin Okura Fire & Marine Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1943) Okura Chiyoda Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1911) (merged 1945) Chiyoda Naniwa Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Nihon Kyoritsu Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Fire & Marine (established 1910) Insurance Co., Ltd. Chiyoda Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 1959: (established 1913) Reinforced the relationship with Toyota Motor Corporation Chitose Fire & Marine Reinsurance Co., Ltd. (established 1920) Nissay General Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1996) Chiyoda Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 1942) Yokohama Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Dowa Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1897) (merged 1944) 1975: Kyodo Fire & Marine Insurance Leading the industry as a pioneer in (established 1906) space insurance, such as development of third-party liability insurance for Kobe Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. artificial satellites for the launch of (established 1907) KIKU, Japan's first satellite Asahi Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Mirai Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1918) (established 1996) Sumitomo Marine Yu-Yu Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1996) Dai-tokyo Shiawase Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1996) Chiyoda Kasai Ebisu Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (established 1996) 020 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is ● First Japanese non-life insurance ● First Japanese non-life insurance company to start direct underwriting in company to enter Lloyd's insurance Thailand, in 1934 experience market in 2000 ● Operations have expanded along with growth in the ASEAN region, ultimately ● Acquisition of Amlin, founded in 1903*1 at the Lloyd's insurance market in 2016 lessons are the achieving the No. 1 position in the region in terms of scale of the future Network of trust built over a long history in 110 years of experience and results in the Lloyd's the Asian region insurance market Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd., Mitsui Mitsui Sumitomo Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., Ltd., 2000: Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd., and Established Lloyd's syndicate as the first Japanese insurer established in 2008 Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. became the subsidiaries of MSIGHD. Mitsui Sumitomo MS&AD Insurance Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 2001) Group launched in 2010 2013: Started reorganization 2017: Invested in ReAssure, 2005: by function U.K.-based closed book*2 Acquired Taiwan-based Mingtai life insurance business Fire and Marine Insurance ranked No. 2 in the Taiwanese insurance industry MS&AD 2004: Insurance Group Holdings Acquired the whole Asian non-life insurance business of U.K.-based Aviva 2017: (making us the largest in the ASEAN Capital participation in region) Challenger, the largest provider of individual annuity insurance in Australia 2004: Developed Pay As You Drive (PAYD) Mitsui Sumitomo type auto insurance for Toyota cars Insurance Co., Ltd. 2016: 2017: Acquired U.K.-based Acquired First Amlin, ranked No. 2 Capital, ranked No. Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 2001) at the Lloyd's 1 in Singapore insurance market Aioi Nissay Dowa 2001: Insurance Co., Ltd. Promoted the Life and (inaugurated 2010) Non-life Comprehensive 2015: 2018: Insurance Strategy Acquired U.K.-based Launched first driving using the Nissay Box Innovation behavior-based Insurance Account as a Group, a leading telematics auto platform telematics insurance for Toyota's automobile insurer connected cars Nissay Dowa Mitsui Direct General General Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 2001) Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (inaugurated 2000) Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. (merged 2001) (inaugurated 2011) Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life (merged 2001) Insurance Co., Ltd. (name changed in 2011) Mitsui Sumitomo CitiInsurance Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (started 2002) *1 See P. 118 for the history of Amlin (currently, MS Amlin). *2 The closed book life insurance business is a type of life insurance whereby a company purchases and acquires policies in force held by other life insurance companies instead of acquiring new policies on their own. Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. (2005) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 021 Diversity Creativity and MS&AD’s Strengths: Diversity synergies derived Enhancing the comprehensive strengths of the Group through management that from diversity leverages the history, culture and characteristics of each Group company The needs of customers and demands of society constantly change as time passes. Vigilant of these changes, our diversity is a true strength that enables us to stay one step ahead of change and serve our customers. Responding to various needs, from non-life insurance to life insurance, and from local communities to global scope Non-life insurance Life insurance Global and CommunityDirect Protection Asset-building comprehensive based sales type type Other operations including financial services business and risk-related services business Diversity in operating companies In tune with rapid changes in society, a wide range of products and services cover all sorts of risks for companies and individuals Individual annuity Diversity in Health Climate insurance products change insurance Telematics risk and services automobile Cyber insurance security Regional insurance revitalization Diversity in human assets A corporate culture that respects differences and creates innovation that turns this into a strength Ratio of overseas employees in consolidated subsidiaries 22.2% Gender composition of employees 48.9% male 51.1% female Ratio of employees with disabilities* 2.37% * Employees at the holding company and five Group domestic insurance companies 022 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is Robust customer base with the largest network of agencies in Japan through leading corporate groups and financial institutions Nippon Toyota Mitsui Sumitomo Life Group Group Group Insurance Group Number of domestic non-life insurance agents: 88,532 Diversity in partnerships Biggest sales channel in the industry provides points of access anytime, Diversity in anywhere via various opportunities sales channels Professional insurance agents Automobile sales Financial dealers and institutions motor channels Partner Digital / companies mobile Diversity in global networks High-quality products and services with a strong presence in key overseas markets Overseas consolidated subsidiaries that share our values: Total of 85 companies Drive growth for the Group by harnessing strengths in their businesses and regions Alliances with major global insurance companies Tie-ups that leverage market characteristics and local needs, collaborate on digitalization ・Generali, the largest insurer in Italy ・Mapfre, the largest insurer in Spain and Latin America ・AXA, the largest insurer in France ・Fairfax, a major insurance and financial group with global reach INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 023 Innovation Realizing growth MS&AD’s Strengths: Innovation in tune with Providing innovative products and services in tune with changes in society the times The MS&AD Insurance Group has been providing products and services that satisfy customer needs in a constantly changing society. We continue to create innovative risk solutions by staying one step ahead of changes in the social landscape and changes in the mindsets and lifestyles of our customers. Frameworks Sensitive to Changes in Society Silicon Valley Industry-academia collaboration Shiga Gunma Corporate University University Fund of Funds Tokyo Venture Capital Denki Net Service University Ventures Group Acquire ideas and digital Self-driving technologies through investments Pursue joint development with Big Data cars in NSV, a diversified investment start-ups through venture fund that invests in several investments venture capital firms Saitama Kanagawa RobiZy Trading Prefecture Prefecture company Manufacturer MS&AD Garage The University Group companies of Tokyo Develop an environment that helps around the world Shibaura employees at Group companies in Institute of Japan and overseas to make business trips to identify Osaka Disaster Technology advanced technologies and University Healthcare prediction based services in Silicon on climate change Valley Osaka University’s Cross-Innovation Initiative Practical Example Sharing economy Change in Advances in telematics technology Tie-up with Grab (Asia) society and upheaval in new mobility Develop telematics Investment in MaaS Global (Europe) services business Group strengths Partnership with Toyota Motor Established telematics car insurance services company, Toyota Insurance Management Solutions USA, LLC (TIMS) in the U.S. in cooperation with Toyota Motor April 2018 Released Japan’s first “PHYD*2” type Japan’s first mileage-linked car insurance “PAYD*1 launched telematics car insurance April 2016 Vehicle Data needed to operation calculate insurance Launched premiums and April 2015 “Connected Car Insurance,” data, etc. provide services based on Toyota Motor’s T-Connect, as an evolved Data communications form of ”PAYD*1” network provider March 2015 Company-approved Company-approved data car navigation systems communication module (DCM) April 2004 Acquired Insure The Box Limited, a leading telematics car insurance company in the U.K. Customers Enjoy Benefit Protect Aioi Nissay Dowa *1 Pay As You Drive Insurance 024 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS *2 Pay How You Drive CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section What the MS&AD Insurance Group is Sustainability MS&AD’s Strengths: Sustainability Always align Helping improve the sustainability of society through partnerships with society The MS&AD Insurance Group is strengthening various business initiatives in line with its aim for a “resilient and sustainable society.” Practical Example: Identify Identify Prevent Prevent risks risks Reduce Reduce the the from from occurring/ occurring/ Providing safety and and and minimize economic economic inform on inform on risks risks minimize burden burden peace of mind the the impact impact Support Support for Supporting Businesses and Corporate Management Local Governments Livelihoods Risk management Initiatives for regional Insurance and services for ● Natural capital risk in supply revitalization through companies chains partnership agreements ● Consulting and insurance for ● Climate change risk in business The Group advances initiatives for cyber risk activities ● Weather derivatives utilizing regional revitalization through ● BCP proliferation initiatives partnerships with local governments, satellite data ● “Kokokaradiary” smartphone app municipalities, local commerce groups for helping companies with health Risk surveys and and local financial institutions. Across management and employees with communication the entire group, we have formed 306*1 getting heathier partnerships to provide risk assistance With an eye on the future, we notify and consulting for regional revitalization. Insurance and services for about risks to individuals sustainability and ● “Connected Car Insurance,” a PHYD help solve these automobile insurance that encourages eco-driving risks. ● “ASHITA NO YOROKOBI,” a tontine-type annuity*2 that supports people who live Risk management long lives Partnership-based revitalization support market ● “Karada-Care Navi,” an information journal quarterly published by MS&AD *1 As of May 31, 2018. Simple total for Mitsui service that encourages healthy lifestyles InterRisk Research Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance *2 See the “Special Feature” section (P. 63) Institute & and the “Glossary of Insurance Consulting, Inc. Terminology” section (P. 96) for details) Participation in Initiatives to Create a Framework for Pursuing Sustainability Corporate We engage in corporate activities that refer to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, encompassing human rights, labor, and the environment. As a domestic financial institution, MS&AD initially declared its support of the UN Global Governance Compact in 2004 and has participated in its administration as a director of Global Compact Network Japan. As a member of the United Nations Environment Programme, Finance Initiatives (UNEP FI), MS&AD Economy participated in the formulation of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). We aim to improve the sustainability of society through insurance and financial services that follow these principles. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance promotes disaster prevention and reduction using natural resources, as well as regional revitalization, by participating in working group (WG) activities Society with the Resilience Japan Association, which engages in initiatives for disaster prevention and mitigation with industry, academia, governments and private sector (Green Resilience WG). As the company heading the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) since its establishment in 2008, MS&AD has worked to spread awareness of biodiversity Environment activities among companies. We are the only non-life insurer in Japan to have signed the UN Natural Capital Declaration. See the Company’s official website for more details about these initiatives. https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/csr/summary/initiative.html INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 025 MS&AD’s Path to Realizing Our Image of Society The MS&AD Insurance Group is on the verge of creating a world-leading insurance and financial services group, a medium-term vision that the Group has pursued since it came into existence, through the story of value creation with its customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. When formulating the new medium-term management plan that began in fiscal 2018, the Group set forth the goal of “a resilient and sustainable society” as its image of society in 2030. The MS&AD Insurance Group will continue creating shared value through its corporate activities, to sustain development and earn the broad support of stakeholders in society. Vision 2021 (FY2018–FY2021) Next Challenge 2017 Development of management based (FY2014–FY2017) New Frontier on CSV* 2013 Realize sustainable growth Development of the creating shared value through Story of Value Creation corporate activities (FY2010–FY2013) *CSV: Creating Shared Value Advance Group integration based on the story of value Founding of the Group creation and realizing our ▶ Achieve medium-term mission aspirations The MS&AD Insurance Group ▶ Build resilient systems was founded with the mission that can respond to of “contributing to the changes in the development of a vibrant environment society and helping secure a sound future for the planet” Building a foundation for the next stage and creating a world-leading insurance and financial services group based on our Vision ▶ Enhance earning power Medium-term aspirations in the domestic non-life insurance business ( A world-leading insurance and financial services group) ) ▶ Improve capital efficiency Within the top 10 non-life Scale insurance groups in the world Restore profitability in the domestic non-life insurance Capital efficiency Group Adjusted ROE 10% business, the biggest issue since ▶ Improve profitability in Group business integration, and Financial soundness ESR 180% 220% the domestic non-life establish a stable earnings foundation 50% (profit basis) in other insurance business Portfolio than the domestic non-life Reduce strategic equity holdings diversity ▶ Ensure financial insurance business while investing in the soundness international business to improve Strategic equity holdings capital efficiency and build a Risk below 30% of integrated platform for growth assets risk amount and below 10% of consolidated total assets Combined ratio in the domestic Profitability non-life insurance business stable at 95% or less 026 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Image of Society in 2030 “Resilient and sustainable society” Able to respond to Win-win-win relationship among Resilient unforeseen circumstances Sustainable the economy, environment and society instead of trade-offs Economy Unforeseen Balance of economy, event environment and Rapid Environsociety change Society ment MS&AD’s Role Examples of Initiatives for Seven Key Issues Strive for resilient community development Deal with Safer mobility society new risks ● Support regional revitalization to create vibrant communities ● Provide products and services with ● Promote disaster prevention ● Create a business model that mechanisms that help prevent and mitigation using natural changes anticipated emerging accidents (safe driving assistance capital (Green Resilience) risks into opportunities with telematics) ● Provide products and services ● Provide products and services for that respond to new risks such the next-generation mobility society as cyber and new lifestyles ● Continue initiatives for traffic safety Good health and longevity ● Provide products and services that support a healthy, long life ● Provide products and services that Climate change mitigation can contribute to the development of advanced medicine and and adaptation Leave no one behind regenerative medical treatment ● Enhance preparedness for large-scale climate disasters ● R&D in insurance and financial ● Provide products and services that services that help support primary assist the penetration of renewable industries and low-income families Improve the energy in developing countries sustainability of ● Compensate for climate risks ● Support the creation of government-managed insurance natural capital systems in developing countries ● Provide services for risk evaluation of natural capital ● Implement activities to preserve biodiversity (Ramsar Supporters), and to regenerate tropical forests in Indonesia * See the “Special Feature” section (PP. 60-66) for more details. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 027 Medium-Term Management Plan ー Reviewing the previous plans since the Group's founding Under “New Frontier 2013,” the Group’s first management plan that had begun in 2010, we steadily deployed initiatives geared toward returning the domestic non-life insurance business to profitability, which had presented the biggest challenge. While also making progress with Group business integration, including the building of common platform systems for the domestic non-life insurance business, we clarified the shape of Group business integration as a result of reorganization by function in 2013. New Frontier 2013 (FY2010-FY2013) ● On account of greater-than-expected losses due to large-scale ● Steady progress was being made in achieving the revised target, but in the natural disasters, including the Great East Japan Earthquake fourth quarter of the last year of the plan (February 2014), greater-thanand floods in Thailand in 2011, the Group Core Profit target for normal snow in the Kanto Koshinetsu region caused massive damage, and FY2013 was revised downward in November 2011. the Company missed the targets for the Group Core Profit and Group ROE. (¥ billion) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Results Results Results Results Initial targets Revised targets Group Core Profit 14.5 (87.5) 87.4 94.8 150.0 110.0 Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business 6.5 19.7 61.9 47.8 100.0 60.0 Domestic Life Insurance Business 4.1 4.3 9.8 24.4 15.0 15.0 International Business 1.8 (112.3) 13.5 18.0 30.0 30.0 Financial Services Business and Risk-Related Services Business 1.9 0.7 2.0 4.4 5.0 5.0 Group ROE 0.8% (5.6%) 5.0% 4.5% 7% 7% Consolidated Net Premiums Written 2,541.4 2,558.8 2,639.4 2,809.5 2,700.0 2,700.0 Annualized Premiums of Policies in Force (life insurance)* 278.0 294.7 317.4 333.5 330.0 330.0 * Figures for MSI Aioi Life (excluding group insurance). The figure for FY2010 is the total for MSI Kirameki Life and Aioi Life. Plan to reduce strategic equity holdings Plan Actual Achievement ratio FY2011-FY2013 (three years) ¥300.0 billion ¥376.4 billion 125.5% Establishment of Financial Soundness Solidification of Earning Power of Achieved Achieved Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Even if a natural disaster that caused all-time high 1 amounts of damage was to occur, the target level for 2 Stably achieved a combined ratio of 95% or less, financial soundness has been secured. set new profit record ESR*1 Underwriting Profit and Combined Ratio （％） 201％ (¥ billion) （％） 195％ 196％* 2 200 Target level: 200% 300 116.4％ 120 181％ 105.1％ 183％ 103.6％ 115.8％ 101.0％ 203.1 96.6％ 93.4％ 200 102.9％ 102.1％ 92.6％ 94.1％ 100 98.2％ 96.0％ 92.8％ 157％ Underwriting profit (before 91.6％ 91.4％ 100 reflecting catastrophe reserves) 125.6 133.9 80 150 144％140％ 60.1 W/P combined ratio E/I combined ratio 0 60 -44.9 -39.1 -100 -83.7 100 -329.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year-end) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) *1 ESR: Economic Solvency Ratio = Net Asset Value ÷ Integrated Risk Amount *2 Although we are working on a more sophisticated method for calculating ESR from the current fiscal year, this figure is based on the calculation method used up to FY2017 (see the “Group Management Based on ERM” section (PP. 38–39) for details). 028 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading “Next Challenge 2017” was positioned as the stage for solidifying the progress made in business integration while continuing to advance reorganization by function. Having restored profitability in the domestic non-life insurance business, a stable earnings foundation was put in place. We also worked to improve capital efficiency and diversified the business portfolio by instilling ERM as the foundation of management, accelerating the sale of strategic equity holdings and investing in overseas businesses. We reached the point where the realization of a “world-leading insurance and financial services group,” which we had adopted as an aspiration in the medium term, was in sight. Next Challenge 2017 (FY2014-FY2017) In FY2017, which was the final year of the plan, international In contrast, the domestic non-life insurance business set a business profits declined sharply, and the Group Core Profit and new profit record and formed the foundation of the Group’s Group ROE targets were missed on account of the large-scale stable earnings. natural disasters (including hurricanes in North America) that Despite the occurrence of the high severity events, the occurred and amounted to the greatest ever in the history of Group’s ESR was maintained at roughly the target level, and the non-life insurance. establishment of financial soundness confirmed. (¥ billion) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Results Results Initial targets Results Results Initial targets Revised targets Group Core Profit 155.7 147.5 120.0 213.7 105.0 160.0 220.0 Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business 92.4 91.9 76.0 153.3 190.1 100.0 135.0 Domestic Life Insurance Business 20.4 25.0 13.0 25.1 34.3 16.0 15.0 International Business 38.2 27.9 27.0 34.6 (125.0) 39.0 66.0 Financial Services Business and Risk-Related Services Business 4.6 2.6 4.0 0.5 5.6 6.0 5.0 Group ROE* 1 5.9% 5.2% 5.4% 7.9% 3.7% 7.0% 7.5% Consolidated Net Premiums Written 2,940.7 3,078.9 3,000.0 3,406.9 3,446.9 3,100.0 3,570.0 Combined Ratio (Domestic Non-Life Insurance) 96.0% 91.6% 95% 92.6% 92.8% 95% or below 93% range Increase in EV*2 of MSI Aioi Life 59.7 (52.0) 40.0 or more 198.4 41.3 45.0 or more 50.0 or more *1 The definitions for Adjusted Profit and Adjusted ROE identified as numerical management targets have been revised under the new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021.” See P. 32 for FY2017 actual data under the new definitions. *2 “EV” stands for embedded value (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 92) for details.) Plan to reduce strategic equity holdings Actual sales to FY2016 Actual sales in FY2017 Period total Revised plan to reduce* Achievement ratio ¥405.1 billion ¥151.3 billion ¥556.6 billion ¥500.0 billion 111.3% *In November 2015, the plan to reduce was raised from ¥300 billion to ¥500 billion. Promotion of ERM Ongoing Improve Capital Efficiency Achieved Tasks ROE rose to approximately 8% in FY2016, but Ensured soundness, improved profitability and put in 3 place a Group management foundation that realizes 3 suffered a decline in FY2017 due to the occurrence of the large-scale natural disasters capital efficiency Ongoing tasks toward targeted 10% level Completion of reorganization by function Achieved Progress also made in areas other than those originally planned. ROE 4 Domestic non-life insurance companies reduced their business expenses by around ¥60.0 billion, which exceeded the original （％） 7.9％ target, and concurrently achieved growth and increased efficiency. 8 6.4％ 5.0％ 5.9％ 5.5％ 6 4.5％ 7.8％ 4.8％ Ongoing Portfolio Diversification 4 4.4％ 5.2％ 5.2％ 3.7％ Tasks Regional diversification from domestic to overseas, business 2 0.8％ investment to diversify business from non-life insurance business to 1 life insurance business 0 -2 0.4％ Ongoing tasks toward achievement of targeted international business profit ratio of 50% -4 -5.6％ Group ROE -6 Ongoing Enhance Ability to Respond to ROE (financial accounting basis) Tasks Environmental Changes -8 Adoption of new technologies, the conducting of all kinds of -10 2 demonstration experiments and research through industry-academia -12 -10.9％ cooperation, etc., to respond to the digital society 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Ongoing tasks toward further quality and productivity improvements INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 029 Risks and Opportunities When formulating Vision 2021, we reassessed the business environment surrounding the Group and identified noteworthy risks within the context of four social issues, as well as growth opportunities for the Group. Recognition of the Business Environment Four Social Issues Society ● Increase in natural disasters such as wind and flood damage and major earthquakes Diversified/ ● Expansion of regional conflicts large-scale ● Expansion of the sharing economy accidents and ● Expansion and consolidation of disparities such disasters as that between poverty and wealth ● Increase in momentum of global-scale initiatives aimed at resolving social issues ● Aging populations around the world ● Decrease in total population, advancement of regional depopulation ● Economic expansion and its recoil associated Global environment with Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics approaching the limit Politics ● Change in regulatory environments inside and outside Japan (stricter capital regulations, consumption tax hike and revisions to Civil Code in Japan) ● Britain’s exit from the European Union (Brexit) / rise Mounting burden of protectionism and populism of nursing/ ● Legalization of human rights protections, tougher medical care decarbonization and other ESG regulations associated with the ● Introduction of systems that encourage long-term investing aging population (Corporate Governance Code, Stewardship Code, etc.) Economy ● U.S. interest rate hikes and capital outflows from emerging nations ● Progress of ESG investment Decline in social vitality due ● Expansion of infrastructure demand in developing to widening countries inequalities ● Decrease in car sales and number of vehicles owned, housing construction in Japan due to shrinking population ● Increase in foreign visitors to Japan Issues related to management foundations Technology ● Progress of advanced digital technology such as AI and increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks ● Advances in new automobile technologies (e.g., automatic braking, autonomous driving) Growing demands ● Advances in regenerative medical technologies on companies ● Progress of clean energy technologies by society ● Threat of Big Data monopoly ● Advances in welfare and nursing care robots 030 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Based on this perception of the environment, and in light of performance during previous medium-term management plans, MS&AD has identified six issues to address under Vision 2021, and formulated basic strategies, key strategies and strategies for each business domain. Through initiatives based on these strategies, we aim to realize sustainable growth and enhance corporate value while contributing to the resolution of these four social issues. Risks Opportunities Vision 2021 Issues and Strategies ● Changes in the nature of existing ● Creation of new markets from businesses (e.g., conventional automobile emergence of new risks insurance), possibility of contraction (new technological development risk, Six issues Strategies ● Tougher competition in shrinking cyber risk, regenerative markets (direct non-life insurance medicine-related risk, etc.) market, bank over-the-counter life ● Emergence of new business models insurance market, etc.) (telematics insurance, InsurTech, etc.) Universal issue ● Emergence of new risks that require ● Possible emergence of new sales strengthening of risk management as a channels result of innovation, such as digitalizaConcept of 1 tion and regenerative medical treatment Harmony with “Vision 2021” society (= business ● Increase in scale and frequency of ● Growing needs for advice about climate development damage caused by large-scale change risk and natural capital risk based on CSV) natural catastrophes ● Needs for new insurance arising from growth ● Erosion of business environment in new businesses related to decarbonization foundation due to depletion of and resource efficiency Unsolved issues from previous natural capital ● Development of new insurance schemes to medium-term management plan ● Softening in reinsurance market (e.g., compensate for loss caused by large-scale for major natural disasters) due to natural catastrophes capital inflows from asset manage● Increase in new ESG-friendly asset Improve capital 2 ment market Group management products, such as Green Bonds efficiency management vis-à-vis global based on competitors ERM ● Maturation of domestic insurance ● Emergence of new customer needs in an aging markets (slower growth) society, such as risk associated with living longer ● Increase in automobile accidents and transferring assets to the next generation Change Reform 3 caused by elderly drivers ● Increase in needs for medical insurance due to ● Need to change solicitation methods changes in the social security system and the business portfolio as policyholders age advances in medical technology portfolio (key strategy 3) Improve Promote ● Potential for slower growth in emerging country markets due to ● Stronger demand for insurance due to the development of emerging economies and 4 responsiveness to changes in the environment digitalization (key strategy 2) capital outflows and social instability a growing middle class ● Contraction in rural markets due to ● Stronger needs for services that support advancement of regional depopularegional revitalization Issues for further strengthening tion Harness diversity Pursue the Group’s 5 better as a Group strength comprehensive strengths (key strategy 1) ● Uncoupling of demands from ● Increase opportunities for constructive stakeholders for creating shared value dialogue with stakeholders from a with society long-term perspective, and reinforce the Maintain and expand ● Persistent demands for improvement management foundation with this feedback the domestic 6 in ROE and reduction in strategic equity holdings non-life insurance Strategies for ● Stricter assessment standards for business’s each business soundness of financial institutions advantages in scale domain and profitability INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 031 New Medium-Term Management Plan: Vision 2021 Vision 2021 (FY2018-FY2021) Numerical Management Targets The MS&AD Insurance Group has set numerical management targets for fiscal 2021, namely Group Adjusted Profit of ¥350 billion and Group Adjusted ROE of 10%, as the level necessary to attain its medium-term aspirations. In addition, we have created the Sustainability Medium-Term Plan and will monitor non-financial indicators. With an eye on the adoption of IFRS, MS&AD has changed the definition of targeted Adjusted Profit and Adjusted ROE as follows. Financial Targets (¥ billion) FY2017 Results (Converted FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 to new standards) Forecast Targets Targets Group Adjusted Profit 201.0 270.0 273.0 350.0 Domestic non-life insurance business 287.8 207.0 174.0 182.0 (Excluded gains/losses on sale of strategic equity holdings) （202.4） （166.0） （139.0） （142.0） Domestic life insurance business 32.6 22.0 28.0 45.0 International business （125.0） 37.0 66.0 117.0 Financial services business/ 5.6 4.0 5.0 6.0 Risk-related services business Group Adjusted ROE 6.4% 8.5% 8.3% 10.0% Consolidated net premiums written 3,446.9 3,480.0 3,530.0 3,710.0 Life insurance premiums 1,508.1 1,496.8 1,540.0 1,600.0 (Gross premiums) EEV of MSI Aioi Life 835.5 865.0 970.0 1,050.0 ESR（Economic Solvency Ratio） 211% 201% 180%～220% Sales Target of Strategic Equity Holdings Total sales target (FY2017-2021) ¥500.0 billion Risk weight to integrated risk amount (before risk diversification effect) Less than 30% Fair value weight in consolidated total assets Less than 10% Group Adjusted Profit and Group Adjusted ROE (¥ billion) Group Adjusted Profit Group Adjusted ROE 10.0% （％） 500 10.0 8.5% 8.3% Definition of Group Adjusted Profits and 400 8.0 Group Adjusted ROE 350.0 6.4% 300 270.0 273.0 6.0 Group Adjusted 201.0 Group Profit 200 4.0 Adjusted 100 2.0 ROE Adjusted net assets 0 0 Results FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 (FY) Forecast Targets Targets 032 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading KPIs in the Sustainability Medium-Term Plan (Key Non-Financial Indicators) A Resilient and Sustainable Society Creating Shared Value with Society (CSV Initiatives) Indicator Fiscal 2017 Achievements Group Targets for Fiscal 2018 Onward Development and ● Special Feature (PP. 60-66) For the seven key issues (P. 13), decide on four methods of improvement of products for ● MS&AD Sustainability approach and periodically ascertain progress qualitatively. creating shared value with Report 2018 Four methods of approach society Provision of products and services Investments and financing Research and policy recommendations Contributions to society Key related SDGs Initiatives supporting CSV Quality that earns the trust of society Management platforms that enable employees to play active roles Indicators Fiscal 2017 Group Targets for Indicators Fiscal 2017 Group Targets for (related pages) Achievements Fiscal 2018 Onward (related pages) Achievements Fiscal 2018 Onward Quality improvement (P. 45, P. 76) Diversity & inclusion (P. 45, PP. 74-75) Customer satisfaction The same level or Share of management Plan to create target in positions occupied by women 9.9% FY2018 survey about insurance 95.2% higher compared to contract procedures the previous year Employee satisfaction The same level of higher ( working vigorously ) 4.3 points compared to the previous year Customer satisfaction The same level or survey about payment of 96.3% higher compared to Key monitoring indicators other than sustainability KPIs insurance claims the previous year ● Number and ratio of global employees ● Ratio of employees with disabilities Reduction of environmental burden (P. 45) Health management (P. 46, PP. 74-75) CO2 emission reduction rate -6.8% Employee satisfaction 4.4 points The same level or higher Reduce CO2 emissions Pride, job satisfaction compared to the previous year by 30% by 2020 and 1,017,853 GJ by 70% by 2050 versus The number of annual The same level or higher Total energy consumption 16.0 days compared to the previous year (-28.1%) base year (fiscal 2009) paid holidays taken Ratio of taking fully paid The same level or higher paternity/secondary leave 58.0% compared to the previous year 11,085 t Equal or greater than Paper consumption the previous year Number of employees participating The same level or higher (-14.8%) in social contribution activities 20,022 people compared to the previous year Key related SDGs Key related SDGs Other incidental factors Equity in earnings of the Consolidated Provisions*3 for catastrophe (amortization of goodwill non-consolidated net income loss reserve and others*2 and other intangible fixed Group companies assets and others) Consolidated Catastrophe loss reserves Goodwill and other net assets*1 and others*2 intangible fixed assets * Parts enclosed in rectangles indicate changes to replace Group Core Profit and Group ROE, targets from the previous medium-term management plan * Each adjustment amount is on after-tax basis. *1 Excluding non-controlling interests and stock acquisition rights, *2 Catastrophe reserves, contingency reserves and reserve for price fluctuation of domestic non-life insurance business and MSA Life, * 3 Subtraction in case of reversal INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 033 Vision 2021 Basic Strategies and Three Key Strategies With work environments that enable employees to play active roles, the MS&AD Insurance Group aims to offer quality that earns the trust of its customers while flexibly adapting to changes in the environment and maximizing Group resources. In addition, we aim to realize sustainable growth and enhance corporate value by working to increase profitability and capital efficiency while ensuring soundness with ERM. By steadily implementing basic strategies and three key strategies being tied up with basic strategies, we are poised to achieve our medium-term aspirations, which have entered the realization phase. Aspirations during Medium-Term Plan Become a world-leading insurance and financial services group Create resilient systems that can swiftly respond to changes in environment ● By employing the Group’s resources to the maximum, we will realize sustainable growth and enhance corporate value. Basic ● We will pursue the Group’s comprehensive strengths, one of which is Strategies diversity, and meet the expectations of customers and other stakeholders. ● We will respond flexibly to changes in the environment and further improve quality and productivity. Key strategy Key strategy Key strategy 1 2 3 Pursue Group’s Promote comprehensive strengths digitalization Reform portfolio P. 35 P. 36 P. 37 Management platforms ERM P. 38 Management platforms that Quality that earns the trust of society enable employees to play active roles P. 76 P. 74 034 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Vision 2021 Key Strategy 1 Pursue Group’s Comprehensive Strengths The MS&AD Insurance Group will enhance its competitiveness while responding to rapid changes in an uncertain environment by making the most of the Group’s greatest strength̶diversity. Under “Vision 2021,” we aim to improve quality and business efficiency by reviewing the division of roles and strengthening cooperation within the Group, and further advance reorganization by function that was accomplished under the previous medium-term business plan, “Next Challenge 2017.” 1 Maximize Group’s strengths (diversity, capital, human assets, customer base, etc.) 2 Review division of roles and strengthen cooperation among group companies Promote standardization and sharing (standardization of products and operating procedures, 3 joint claims services system, joint development of health and medical products and services) Domestic non-life insurance business companies ● Shared products and Strengthening cooperation, operating procedures standardization and sharing ● Release joint claims Review the division of roles services system, etc. and strengthen cooperation ● Deepen cross-selling* of life and non-life ● Standardization and consolidation ● Joint development of health and of back-office operations medical products and services, etc. ● Joint development of health and ● Sharing and enhancement of medical products and services, etc. asset management expertise, etc. Initiatives to pursue the Group’s comprehensive Domestic strengths life insurance business companies ● Strengthen cooperation among Group domestic life Affiliated insurance companies operating companies ● Sharing of MSI Primary Life’s high-quality expertise in education and training, etc. Review the division of roles and strengthen cooperation ● Centralization of back-office operations, etc. *See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 92) for details. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 035 Vision 2021 Key Strategy 2 Promote Digitalization Rapid advances in digital technology have led to dramatic changes in lifestyles and business models. It is now possible to do what was previously unthinkable. With the CDO (Chief Digitalization Officer) playing a central role, the entire MS&AD Insurance Group is working on “digitalization*1” and connecting it to a transformation of our entire businesses. We aim to enhance the value of customer experience when they contact individual Group companies, and improve the business productivity of the MS&AD Group at the same time. Objectives Enhance the value of customer experience Improve business productivity Promotion Measures Reform business processes Enhance channel competitiveness Digitalize products and services Promotional Platforms Enhance use of data Reform systems Foster Group culture Europe ASEAN U.S. MS Amlin MSIG Holdings（Asia） Silicon Valley Project ● Increase business efficiency with ● Create seamless user experience ● Invest in fund of funds RPA*2, AI, data analytics, etc. for the connected customers of ● Establish CVC (Corporate Venture Capital) ● Strengthen customer contact today through innovation and ● Implement MS&AD Garage Program through the introduction of digitalization by utilizing RPA, AI, * See the “MS&AD’s Strengths: Innovation” blockchain technology for marine and blockchain in the largest retail section (P. 24) for an outline of each initiative. insurance market in MS&AD's international business Japan, other MS&AD Group companies Japan Robotics Silicon Valley Digital Tech. ● Automate business processes with RPA ● Use AI to help agents with customer support ● Strengthen customer contacts using digital technology ● Provide products and services that promote health and productivity management by using wearable devices Data Analytics Healthcare Telematics ● Develop automobile insurance that uses telematics technology, etc. *1 “Digitalization”: An initiative to not only improve the efficiency and convenience of processes and services through digital technology, but also lead the reform of the Group’s overall business. *2 RPA (Robotic Process Automation): Using cutting-edge software, automated robotic processes perform work on PCs instead of people. 036 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Vision 2021 Key Strategy 3 Reform Portfolio The MS&AD Insurance Group’s current earnings structure is dependent on the domestic non-life insurance business. We are transforming our earnings structure into one able to steadily generate profits by working to increase geographic and business diversification in the international business and the life insurance business. Moreover, the Group’s risk portfolio currently has a high ratio of risk in strategic equity holdings, which cause high exposure to fluctuations in share prices. We will continue reducing strategic equity holdings in a bid to transform into a more stable risk portfolio. Reform business portfolio (geographic and business diversification) Goals Future initiatives Medium-term goals 50% of profits to come from businesses other ● Expand domestic life insurance business by increasing than the domestic non-life insurance business cross-selling of life and non-life insurance ● Strengthen existing international business by aggressively 50% of profits to come from investing management resources Future aspiration international business ● Invest in businesses inside and outside Japan (new and growth) ■ Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business (excluding gains/losses on sales of strategic equity holdings) Future aspiration ■ Domestic Life Insurance Business ■ International Business ■ Financial services business/ Risk-related services business End of fiscal 2021 (goal) 2% ¥6 billion End of fiscal 2015* 50% ¥117 billion 38% 46% 14% ¥142 billion ¥45 billion (excluding gains/losses on sales of strategic equity holdings of ¥40.0 billion) *At starting point of the portfolio reform Reform risk portfolio ● Exercise appropriate risk control based on cycle Risk Portfolio management of natural catastrophe risks. ● Continue reduction of strategic equity holdings ■ Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business (insurance underwriting) and keep weighting vs. consolidated total assets ■ Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business to less than 10% and weighting vs. risk amount to 30% or less (asset management: strategic 32.7% less than 30%. equity holdings) 40.5% ■ Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Fair value weight of strategic equity holdings in (asset management: other than consolidated total assets* strategic equity holdings) Mediumto ■ Domestic Life Insurance Business March 31, 2014 March 31, 2018 long-term target (insurance underwriting) ■ Domestic Life Insurance Business 14.9% 12.7% 10% or less (asset management) ■ International business 2013 2017 2021 （FY) * Weight of all strategic equity holdings including unlisted stocks (Target) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 037 Vision 2021 Group Management Based on ERM The function of ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) is to control the balance among three key management indicators: profit (return), risk and capital. The MS&AD Insurance Group promoted ERM as a driver in the previous medium-term management plan, “Next Challenge 2017,” establishing a platform for Group management. Under the new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021,” MS&AD will push forward with initiatives to improve profitability and capital efficiency, while ensuring soundness, and base Group management on the ERM cycle. Function and Role of ERM ● ERM requires measuring net asset value (capital) and risk amount, and maintaining a balance between capital and risk. In particular, because fluctuations of financial markets, etc., cause changes in capital and risk, it is important to maintain soundness based on understanding of those situations. ● From a Groupwide perspective, risk must be quantitatively and qualitatively identified and properly managed. From the standpoint of effectively deploying capital, ERM requires to maximize returns while increasing risk-taking in existing businesses and seeking diversification in terms of geography and risk categories. Make internal and external investments for sustainable profit growth Profit (return) Capital efficiency Profitability Group Adjusted Achieve fiscal year ROE level of 10% targets for ROR and VA Balance Capital Risk Control capital on the Control risk amount based on assumption of stably ensuring Soundness risk appetite policy an appropriate level Ensure ESR*1 of 180%-220% (= appropriate level) *1 ESR: Economic Solvency Ratio (economic value-based solvency ratio) = NAV / integrated risk amount 038 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Indicators Emphasized in ERM Return (Group Adjusted Profit) Capital efficiency Group Adjusted ROE = Capital (adjusted net assets*2) ＝ Add value by underwriting risk Profitability Return (Group Adjusted Profit) Return (Group Adjusted Profit) – ROR VA risks (integrated risk amount) x (return on risk) Risk (integrated risk amount* ) 3 cost of capital (%) × 1 Capital cost: 7% Capital (NAV*4) Soundness ESR Risk (integrated risk amount) *2 NAV used to calculate Group Adjusted ROE is equal to consolidated net assets plus catastrophe reserves and others minus goodwill and other intangible fixed assets. *3 Integrated risk amount represents the maximum amount of losses and total value of associated insurance payments that are likely to be encountered once in 200 years. It is marked to market value. *4 Net asset value is an indicator used as a management buffer to enable thorough net asset management. In addition to adjusted net assets, it includes such items as unrealized insurance liabilities, other equity liabilities, etc. ESR (Economic Solvency Ratio) ● ESR is an indicator of capital adequacy with respect to the risk amount. Enhancement of calculation method for ESR ● Risk amounts are calculated based on the statistical quantifica（1） NAV tion of risks of losses and price fluctuations associated with Application of after-tax value of taxable items ● businesses and asset portfolios, and the integrated risk amount Changes in insurance liabilities associated with the enhancement of ● represents the total amount of risk assumed by the Group as a measurement method of the natural catastrophe risk amount in Japan whole. The Group uses a probability of once in 200 years for （2） Integrated risk amount ● Deduction of tax, reduction effects associated with the manifestation of estimating the probability of loss amounts. risks from the integrated risk amount ● Starting with the new medium-term management plan “Vision ● Enhancement of the measurement method of domestic natural 2021,” a more sophisticated formula is used to calculate ESR, catastrophe risks and asset management risks following the integration of after-tax value of taxable items and changes to the method of weighing risks from natural (¥ billion) disasters in Japan. ● Aiming to ensure financial soundness equivalent to an AA Before change After change Impact rating, based on the new formula, MS&AD prepares capital ESR (March 31, 2018) 196％ 211% +15 pt roughly equivalent to double the losses that would be incurred statistically by a once-in-200-year event with ESR at an NAV 5,800.0 4,800.0 (1,000.0) appropriate level of 180%-220%. (For ESR trends, see the “Medium-Term Management Plan--Reviewing the previous Integrated risk amount 3,000.0 2,200.0 (800.0) plans since the Group's founding” section (P. 28).) ROR (Return on Risk) VA (Value Added) ● ROR is an indicator that expresses how much profit can ● Value Added (VA) indicates how much value can be be obtained with respect to the subject risks assumed. generated with respect to the risks assumed. ● To assume risk, it is necessary to secure capital that ● While ROR (Return on Risk) indicates the rate of return balances that risk. Consequently, in business where that can be obtained with respect to the risks assumed, ROR is high (in other words, business where profit is VA is an indicator of absolute value. large relative to the risk assumed), the profit that can be earned is large relative to the capital necessary. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 039 Financial and Capital Strategy We aim to enhance corporate value by pursuing an optimal balance among financial soundness, capital efficiency and shareholder returns. Director, Executive Vice President, CFO Shiro Fujii Financial Position ESR is 211% and will be maintained at an appropriate level for continuing the current capital strategy. The MS&AD Insurance Group’s basic financial strategy is to forecast due to unprecedented insured losses arising from create a financial foundation that will sustain growth and improve hurricanes in North America and other natural disasters. Group corporate value. To realize this strategy, the Group has appropriCore Profit totaled ¥105.1 billion, ROE was 5.5% on financial ate capital and financial policies in place for improving capital accounting terms and Group ROE came to 3.7%. efficiency while ensuring financial soundness, centered on ERM. Nonetheless, ESR* was maintained at 196% based on the For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the MS&AD previous calculation method (200% target for financial soundInsurance Group reported net income attributable to owners of ness), and at 211% under the new calculation method beginning the parent of ¥154.0 billion, which is 37% lower than initially this fiscal year (180%-220% is an appropriate level). * See the “Group Management Based on ERM” section (P. 38) for details. Financial Soundness The Group aims to ensure financial soundness equivalent to an AA rating by enhancing the capital base and controlling risks. The Group has set a goal for financial soundness equivalent to and methods for funding based on the analysis of whether the an AA rating as the financial strength that it should strive for as a return is appropriate for the risk (ROR*) and the return is greater world-leading insurance and financial services group, and views than the cost of capital (VA*). an ESR in the 180%-220% range as appropriate. (See the “ERM” section (P. 70) for details on actual measures and the Ratings of Domestic Non-Life Insurance “Credit Ratings” section (P. 112) for current credit ratings. Companies (MSI and ADI) Furthermore, a majority of the Group’s liabilities are policy liabilities. From the viewpoint of ALM*, it is desirable to hold S&P Moody’s A.M. Best R&I JCR corresponding assets that match the characteristics (currency, duration, etc.) of liabilities. The Group fully considers risk and A+ A1 A+ AA AA+ return through ERM and makes decisions on actual investments (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) * ALM refers to asset liability management. (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology”section (P. 92) for details.) * ROR: Return on Risk, VA: Value Added (See the “Group Management Based on ERM” section (P. 39) for details) Capital Efficiency The Group aims to achieve ROE at the 10% level, as a world-leading insurance and financial services group. Although Group ROE of 7.5%, the target under “Next Challenge 2017,” Aware of the cost of capital, we aim for a Group Adjusted ROE of was achieved in fiscal 2016, Group ROE fell to 3.7% in fiscal 2017 due 10%, a level that is on a par with that of major insurance companies in to large-scale natural disasters. Europe and the U.S., and will optimally allocate resources in addition to Under “Vision 2021,” since MS&AD plans to transition to IFRS in growth and portfolio diversification. We estimate 7% for the cost of fiscal 2021, the definition of numerical management targets (Group capital based on the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Adjusted Profit*1 and Group Adjusted ROE*1) has been changed. *1 For definitions of Group Adjusted Profit and Group Adjusted ROE, see PP. 32-33. Group Core Profit / Group Adjusted Profit New Frontier 2013 Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 (¥ billion) Group Core Profit Group Adjusted Profit （％） 500 8.5 10.0 10.0 Group ROE Group Adjusted ROE 7.9 8.3 400 350.0 8.0 5.9 6.4 300 5.0 5.2 270.0 273.0 6.0 4.5 213.7 3.7 201.0 200 155.7 147.5 4.0 87.4 94.8 105.1 100 0.8 2.0 14.5 0 0.0 -100 -87.5 -5.6 △6.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) (Forecasts) (Target) (Target) 040 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Shareholder Return Policy We will return approximately 40%-60% of Group Adjusted Profit to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. Under “Vision 2021,” the MS&AD Insurance Group has adopted a year. For fiscal 2017, the dividend was increased by ¥10 to ¥130 policy of aiming to return approximately 40%-60% of Group per share. MS&AD plans to distribute a dividend of ¥130 per share Adjusted Profit to shareholders through dividends and share again in fiscal 2018. buybacks over the medium term. The policy aims to achieve a steady For share buybacks, the Group repurchases its own shares increase in shareholder value by appropriately allocating profit to flexibly, and as opportunities arise, with due consideration paid to shareholder returns and internal reserves, while aggressively market conditions and the state of its capital. returning value to shareholders and building internal reserves for In May 2018, the MS&AD Insurance Group announced a ¥30 future growth investments. billion (maximum) share buyback, and it was flexibly implemented As for dividends, the basic goal is to continue to pay a stable with due consideration paid to market conditions. dividend while aiming to increase dividend payments through the The Group remains focused on returning value to shareholders strengthening of our earning power. In fiscal 2016, a dividend of through a stable dividend that increases in the medium run, while ¥120 per share was distributed, ¥30 higher than the previous fiscal enhancing corporate value through sustainable growth. Shareholder Return Performance (by Fiscal Year) (¥ billion) Total dividends (annual) Amount of share buybacks 120 107.0 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY Aggregate 101.4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017*1 total 100 30.0 Group Core Profit 29.9 (Maximum) (¥ billion) 14.5 (87.5) 87.4 94.8 155.7 147.5 213.7 105.1 731.3 80 74.4 69.9 Total returns 20.0 (¥ billion) 43.5 33.5 38.5 44.7 69.9 74.4 101.4 107.0 513.2 60 Shareholder 43.5 44.7 30.0 return ratio*2 300% – 44% 47% 45% 50% 47% 102% 70% 38.5 40 10.0 33.5 10.0 71.5 77.0 Dividend per 5.0 54 54 54 56 65 90 120 130 – share (¥) 54.4 20 33.5 33.5 33.5 34.7 39.9 Returns per share (¥) 69.8 54.0 62.0 72.0 113.5 122.5 169.1 180.6 – 0 *1 FY2017 shows planned amounts for shareholder returns, shareholder return ratio and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) shareholder return per share. (plan) *2 Shareholder return ratio = (dividends for the current fiscal year (to be paid in December of the year and in June of the next year) + value of share buybacks determined by the day of annual shareholders meeting in the next fiscal year) ÷ Group Core Profit for the current fiscal year Our Approach to Internal Reserves We will achieve sustainable growth, even in uncertain business environments, by investing to strengthen, expand and create businesses. Internal reserves after shareholder returns are used for sustainable growth models, and operations that can generate investments that aim to improve the competitiveness of existing synergies with existing businesses while dispersing risk, in order businesses, for investments to diversify and expand the business to contribute to sustained improvement in the Group’s capital portfolio, and for investments to create new business territories efficiency. in cooperation with partners, with the ultimate aim of sustaining Through these investments, we aim to accelerate improvegrowth and increasing shareholder value. ments in capital efficiency and secure competitiveness in the For business investments, acquisition candidates are future, even in uncertain business environments. screened for their affinity with our corporate culture, having Sustainable profit growth Investments to create new businesses in cooperation with partners Example: Launch a new business such as Fin-tech in cooperation with startups, etc. Innovate Group Adjusted Profit Group Adjusted Investment to create new business territories ROE 10% Strengthen Expand Investment to strengthen the Investment to diversify and competitiveness of existing businesses expand the business portfolio Investment to promote New business investment for business Shareholder digitalization portfolio diversification and expansion returns ●Improve the efficiency of (Viewpoints when considering investment) business ● Affinity of corporate cultures 40%-60% of ●Strengthen sales channels ●Presence of sustainable growth model Group Adjusted Profit ●Improve the value of ●Creation of synergies with existing as a benchmark customer experience businesses, diversification of the risk portfolio INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 041 Towards Sustainable Growth and Achieving Targets for Group Adjusted ROE and Group Adjusted Profit Components of Group Adjusted ROE Breakdown of Group Adjusted ROE Ensuring Balance by ERM Management Group Adjusted ROE, one of the numerical management targets in While striving to increase Group Adjusted Profit through activities “Vision 2021,” can be explained in terms of the two indicators shown in in each of the Group’s business domains, we employ ERM to the chart below, namely ESR, which represents financial soundness, and monitor ROR and ESR, with a focus on the balance among ROR (Return on Risk), which expresses the balance between the returns Group Adjusted Profit, integrated risk amount, and net asset and risks that the MS&AD Insurance Group assumes. These indicators value (capital). (See the “Group Management Based on ERM” can be further broken down into three elements comprising Group section (P. 38) for details.) Adjusted Profit, integrated risk amount and net asset value (capital). Group Adjusted ROE ROR Adjusted Net Assets and Integrated Net Asset Value (Capital) Group Adjusted Profit *1 Group Adjusted Profit Risk Amount In ERM, to thoroughly manage the net Integrated asset value, which serves as a Adjusted Net Assets *2 Adjusted Net Assets management buffer, adjusted net assets Risk Amount*3 are transformed into the net asset value through the following kind of calculations. Note: Figures within parentheses are for Group Adjusted Integrated the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Profit Risk Amount 1 Net asset value ＝adjusted net assets (¥3.2 trillion) Integrated Net Asset Value ESR ＋unrealized insurance liabilities Risk Amount (Capital) (¥0.7 trillion) ＋other equity liabilities, etc. (¥0.9 trillion) ＝¥4.8 trillion Group Adjusted ROR ESR Net Asset Value ROE （Return on Risk） （Economic Solvency Ratio） ＝Net asset value (capital) (Capital) An indicator of capital efficiency An indicator of the ÷Integrated risk amount balance between the risks the An indicator of the balance Integrated [FY2018 target] between the risks the Group is Initiatives to Group is assuming 8.5% and the associated returns. assuming and the Group’s net assets. In other words, an Risk Amount achieve Group Adjusted Profit indicator of financial soundness. target in each Group Adjusted business domain. Profit Regular monitoring of ESR ERM balances ［Medium term］ these three elements. ESR target: 180%～220% Monitoring ROR for the Group overall Each business Each business domain company *1 Group Adjusted Profit = consolidated net income + net provision for catastrophe loss reserve and others – other incidental factors (amortization of goodwill and other intangible fixed assets and others) + equity in earnings of non-consolidated Group companies *2 Adjusted net assets = consolidated net assets + catastrophe loss reserve and others – goodwill and other intangible fixed assets (remaining balance) *3 The integrated risk amount represents insurance underwriting risk, asset management risk, operational risk, etc., quantified by means of stochastic methods. *4 The Family Registration Service is a service that allows pre-registered family members, in addition to the policyholder, to receive information about the insurance policy just like the actual policyholder. *5 Number of days to provide assurance is an indicator of how long it takes for the Company to complete administrative tasks for customers, such as applications for new insurance contracts, applications to cancel policies, claims for insurance payments, and claims for other benefits. It is broken down into (1) number of days to provide assurance (new business), (2) number of days to provide assurance (maintenance) and (3) number of days to provide assurance (insurance payments) *6 Mortality margin, administrative expense margin, and investment yield margin are indicators for core profit, which represents the fundamental profitability of life insurance companies. Together, these terms are referred to as the “three surplus factors .” Mortality margin is the profit or loss on the difference between projected insurance benefits payments, based on assumed mortality rates, and actual insurance benefits payments. Administrative expense margin is the gain or loss on the difference between projected business expenditures, based on assumed expense ratios, and actual business expenditures. Investment yield margin is the gain or loss on the difference between projected investment income, based on assumed interest rates, and actual investment income. (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 96).) 042 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading KPI and Specific Initiatives to Achieve Group Adjusted Profit Target and Sustainable Growth KPI Examples of Specific Initiatives ● Education and assistance for improving customer services and agency quality ● Provide solutions for diverse customer needs ● Prompt and accurate back-office processing, sympathetic interactions for accidents Main Reference Indices The Group Non-life insurance Life insurance Customer satisfaction ● Customer satisfaction and ● Prompt claims ● Number of registrations for Family recommendation rate payment rate Registration Service*4 ● Ratio of female managers ● Number of days to provide ● Ratio of global employees assurance*5 The ● Activities for maintenance of renewal contracts and acquisition of new contracts Growth Group ● New product development based on understanding of changing customer needs ● Maintain and expand robust sales platform, create and diversify sales channels, etc. Main Reference Indices The Group Non-life insurance Life insurance ● Business budget ● Number of new sales ● Policies in force Premium growth rate achievement rate ● Contract continuation rate networks ● Rate of increase in ● Number of policies ● Annualized premiums of ● Ratio of global employees automobile insurance policies in force *Net premiums written or annualized premiums contracts ● Ratio of non-life insurance agencies that also sell life insurance ● Number of training events and training event participation Group Adjusted ● Appropriate product design Profit ● Elimination of fraud claims / Appropriate and prompt payment of claims ● Provide advice designed to prevent accidents and reduce damage Loss ● Usage of sustainable resources (use recycled parts) ratio Main Reference Indices ● Number of risk surveys carried out ● Number of risk management seminars and training sessions carried out Combined ratio ● Efforts to reduce business expenses by efficient operation ● Reforming operating processes and employee roles Expense ● Initiatives to reduce environmental burden through business activities ratio Main Reference Indices Non-life insurance ● Ratio of personnel expenses to sales ● Selection rate of web policy clauses ● Paper usage ● CO2 emissions ● Reduction rate in total energy consumption ● Integrated asset/liability management based on consideration of the characteristics of insurance liabilities Investment ● Improving Return on Risk ● Appropriate risk control income/loss Main Reference Indices ● Asset management yield ● Diversifying effect among assets ● Reduction in strategic equity holdings Profitability Protection-type products ● Product design that balances customer benefits and business soundness Mortality margin* 6 ● Support for information and service provision that promotes healthy and worry-free lives for customers ● Reform the product portfolio Administrative expense margin*6 Main Reference Indices ● Annualized premiums of policies in force ● Number of life and healthcare seminars held / number of participants Investment yield margin*6 ● Reduce administrative expenses through more efficient management Life Main Reference Indices insurance ● Paper usage ● CO2 emissions ● Reduction rate in total energy consumption Asset-building-type products ● Set reasonable assumed interest rates to ensure profits ● More sophisticated use of ALM that considers characteristics of liabilities, expand investment assets that consider risks (diversify and increase balances Fixed insurance income of return-expected assets ) ● Appropriately control risk by using diverse investment methods Variable insurance income Main Reference Indices ● Asset management yield ● Rating distribution for investment bonds See Financial Highlights on P. 44. See Non-Financial Highlights on P. 45. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 043 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Financial Highlights Group Core Profit Group ROE (¥ billion) （%） 7.9 250 8.0 213.7 200 6.0 5.0 155.7 147.5 150 4.0 5.9 5.2 3.7 94.8 105.1 4.5 100 87.4 2.0 0.8 50 0 14.5 0 -2.0 -50 -4.0 -87.5 -5.6 -100 -6.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） Group Core Profit is a representation of underlying Group profits for external Group ROE is the ratio of Group Core Profit to consolidated net assets. It was stakeholders, including shareholders and investors. It was included in the a numerical management target in medium-term management plans up to numerical management targets in medium-term management plans up to FY2017. FY2017. Group Core Profit is calculated by deducting non-recurring profits (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 93) for details.) (i.e., net capital gains, other incidental factors) from accounting profits. (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 93) for details.) Consolidated net premiums written*1 and premium growth rate (non-life insurance business) Combined ratio (domestic non-life insurance business) (¥ billion) Consolidated net premiums written (left axis) Premium growth rate (right axis) （%） （%） 3,600 3,446.9 14 120 116.4 3,406.9 3,400 12 115 3,200 10 110 3,078.9 10.7 3,000 8 105 6.4 2,940.7 105.1 2,800 6 100 102.9 98.2 2,639.4 2,809.5 96.0 2,600 2,541.4 2,558.8 4.7 4.7 4 95 91.6 92.6 92.8 1.2 2,400 0.9 0.7 3.1 2 90 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） Consolidated net premiums written is a numerical management target in The combined ratio is a key indicator of profitability in underwriting in the medium-term management plans. A premium growth rate indicates growth non-life insurance business. It was a numerical management target in potential in premium income in domestic non-life insurance business and medium-term management plans up to FY2017. international non-life insurance business. (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 92) for details.) Net investment income (domestic non-life insurance business*2) Policies in force*3 (domestic life insurance business) Net interest and Capital profit/loss Capital profit/loss Net investment 28.8 29.8 (¥ billion) dividends income (valuation gain/loss) (sales profit/loss) income/loss (¥ trillion) 250 30 27.4 209.8 26.3 187.7 171.6 180.5 25.1 200 178.1 25 23.7 21.1 150 19.5 135.3 20 102.2 100 56.9 15 50 10 0 -50 5 -100 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） Net investment income is a major source of earnings, next to underwriting Policies in force is a basic performance indicator for life insurance companies that income, for non-life insurance companies, consisting of interest and dividend are the outstanding amount of valid insurance policies owned by insurance company income as well as gains/losses on the sale of securities. at the end of fiscal year, and the grand total amount guaranteed to policyholders. (See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section (P. 95) for details.) *1. Excludes the Good Results Return premiums of “ModoRich” voluntary auto insurance products *2. Simple sum of non-consolidated figures for MSI and ADI *3. Total amount of policies in force for individual insurance and individual annuity insurance at MSI Aioi Life and MSI Primary Life. MSI Aioi Life was formed from the merger of MSI Kirameki Life and Aioi Life on October 1, 2011, so FY2010 and FY2011 show simple sum for the two companies. 044 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Non-Financial Highlights A checkmark ( ) indicates that FY2017 figures have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Customer satisfaction and Outside Director ratio and the Board of Directors customer recommendation rate*4 attendance rate Customer satisfaction Customer recommendation rate Outside Director ratio (left axis) Attendance rate (right axis) （％） (accident response of automobile insurance) 96 （％） （％） 95 95.5 95.6 96.0 40 100 94 93 96.7 88.9 94.6 95.0 92 92.3 91 91.9 91.8 92.0 90 89.3 89.4 89.3 30 41.7 80 89 88 89.1 33.3 41.7 88.7 30.8 30.8 87 86 87.0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） Our growth potential depends on improving customer satisfaction and Outside directors independent from management strengthen monitoring customer recommendation rates. Along with these indicators, customer and oversight functions for highly transparent management. More than opinions are helpful in improving quality. one-third of the Board of Directors are independent Outside Directors. Selection rate of web policy clauses*5 and amount of paper usage Number and ratio of female managers*7 （t） Amount of paper usage Selection rate of web policy clauses （％） (persons) Number of female managers (left axis) Ratio of female managers (right axis) （％） (left axis) (right axis) 20,000 100 1,500 Group consolidated 15.7 15 74.0 75.2 76.8 1,200 12.7 Domestic 12 70.7 15,000 61.9 75 9.9 900 9 10,000 50 7.1 5.5 600 4.6 6 16,036 13,283 13,940 13,005 11,085 3.0 3.6 5,000 25 1,200 Domestic Group 300 consolidated 3 245 296 377 449 551 613 1,292 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） We actively recommend to select web policy clauses because such access is We believe diversity in the manager position and above leads to greater customer easier than with policy booklets, is more convenient for customers and satisfaction and growth potential by enabling strategies, product development promotes a decrease in the environmental load related to the use of paper and organizational management from diverse viewpoints and sense of value. and postal mail. We began tallying this data on a Group consolidated basis, including overseas, in FY2016. CO2 emissions and total energy consumption*6 Number and ratio of global employees (t -CO2) CO2 emissions (left axis) Total energy consumption (right axis) (GJ) (persons) Number of employees in Japan Number of overseas employees 140,000 1,400,000 45,000 (（ “ ）” indicates ratio) 40,000 9,184 120,000 1,200,000 8,573 8,759 1,017,853 6,228 6,448 （22.2％） （16.8％） （21.1％） （21.6％） 35,000 6,003 1,142,647 100,000 1,126,555 1,070,886 1,098,008 1,000,000 （16.4％） （16.8％） 30,000 80,000 800,000 25,000 60,000 600,000 20,000 30,640 30,827 31,910 32,044 31,882 32,111 111,818 123,567 119,953 120,930 104,669 15,000 （83.6％） （83.2％） （83.2％） （78.9％） （78.4％） （77.8％） 40,000 400,000 10,000 20,000 200,000 5,000 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） Reducing CO2 emissions helps mitigate climate change, a risk for non-life Increasing the number of employees from different cultures and with diverse sense insurance business. It also reduces energy-related business expenses. of value, and deepening mutual understanding among employees, leads to a stronger organizational capacity for the Group and is a driving force in international business development in particular. *4. Customer survey choices were streamlined from five options to four in FY2015 and unified within the Group. This figure indicates the ratio of customers who chose the top two options. *5. Refers to environmentally friendly policy clauses where the content can be viewed on our website rather than being written in a booklet. FY2016 figures were modified. *6 Total energy consumption is calculated based on the energy conversion coefficient from the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming. Electric power energy use, however, is 3.6GJ/MWh. Also, from FY2017, the energy for the parts of Company buildings leased to tenants is excluded. *7. Results as of April 1 of subsequent fiscal year. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 045 Key Management Indicators and Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Key Management Indicators for the Last Eight Years FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Consolidated financial data (¥ million) Ordinary income 3,404,942 3,764,986 4,315,787 4,362,754 4,689,658 5,013,038 5,335,239 Net premiums written 2,543,786 2,555,551 2,639,015 2,811,611 2,939,113 3,078,732 3,407,389 [Net premiums written]*1 [2,541,400] [2,558,844] [2,639,419] [2,809,581] [2,940,756] [3,078,995] [3,406,966] Insurance claims paid (non-life + life) 1,646,851 2,133,440 1,961,399 2,025,545 1,996,675 2,023,599 2,162,773 Ordinary profit/(loss) 21,005 (96,211) 150,300 190,259 287,061 291,578 352,612 Net income attributable to owners of the parent*2 5,420 (169,469) 83,625 93,451 136,247 181,516 210,447 Comprehensive income/(loss) (189,373) (88,136) 543,938 322,865 807,972 (233,116) 114,294 Net assets 1,663,381 1,512,134 2,021,625 2,285,832 3,036,663 2,725,274 2,734,432 Total assets 11,445,003 14,537,204 15,914,663 16,878,148 18,788,046 20,303,649 21,234,300 Consolidated solvency margin ratio*3 － 553.8% 738.8% 772.5% 803.9% 743.3% 872.6% Equity ratio 14.11% 10.27% 12.56% 13.39% 16.00% 13.29％ 12.76％ Return on equity (ROE) 0.37% (10.91%) 4.79% 4.42% 5.18% 6.36％ 7.78％ Combined ratio* (domestic non-life insurance) 4 102.9% 116.4% 105.1% 98.2% 96.0% 91.6％ 92.6％ Group Core Profit*5 14,500 (87,500) 87,400 94,800 155,700 147,500 213,700 Group ROE*6 0.8% (5.6%) 5.0% 4.5% 5.9% 5.2% 7.9% Per share data (yen) Net income per share (basic)*7 8.68 (272.49) 134.46 150.58 221.34 298.72 350.94 Net income per share (diluted)*8 － － － － － － 350.90 Group Core Profit/(loss) per share 23.27 (140.82) 140.56 152.79 252.99 242.83 356.39 Dividend per share (DPS) 54.00 54.00 54.00 56.00 65.00 90.00 120.00 Net assets per share (BPS) 2,597.19 2,400.48 3,215.33 3,646.22 4,911.40 4,469.58 4,572.82 Stock price-related data Year-end market price (closing price) (yen) 1,894 1,699 2,066 2,364 3,370 3,136 3,540 Price earnings ratio (PER)* (times) 9 218.06 － 15.36 15.70 15.23 10.50 10.09 Price book-value ratio (PBR)* (times) 9 0.73 0.71 0.64 0.65 0.69 0.70 0.77 Dividend yield*9 2.9% 3.2% 2.6% 2.4% 1.9% 2.9% 3.4% Annual total shareholder return (TSR)*10 (24.9%) (7.4%) 24.8% 17.1% 45.3% (4.9%) 16.7% Stock price volatility (annual rate)*11 32.3% 26.6% 35.8% 39.0% 25.3% 41.0% 36.9% Capital management policy data (¥ millions) Total dividends 33,583 33,582 33,582 34,715 39,900 54,447 71,489 Dividend payout ratio (consolidated) 622.1% － 40.2% 37.2% 29.4% 30.1% 34.2% Aggregate amount of repurchase* 12 9,999 0 4,996 9,997 29,992 19,996 29,938 [Average repurchase price]* 13 [¥2,012] － [¥2,565] [¥2,523] [¥3,373] [¥3,044] [¥3,738] Shareholder return ratio*14 300.2% － 44.1% 47.2% 44.9% 50.4% 47.7% Non-financial data Customer satisfaction (accident － － 89.3% 89.4% 89.1% 95.5% 95.6% response for automobile insurance)*15 Customer recommendation rate*16 － － 88.7% 87.0% 89.3% 91.9% 91.8% Number of employees 36,538 36,929 36,643 37,055 38,358 40,617 40,641 [Average number of temporary employees] [8,060] [8,022] [7,833] [8,746] [8,996] [10,173] [10,150] (of which consolidated overseas subsidiaries) 5,621 5,772 6,003 6,228 6,448 8,573 8,759 Number of female managers* (domestic) 17 － － 245 296 377 449 551 Number of employees participating in － － 16,142 11,373 15,124 16,507 19,861 social contribution activities (domestic) 046 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading TSR for the Last Five Years 220.0 FY2017 MS＆AD TOPIX TOPIX Insurance Sector Index 200.0 5,217,835 3,440,976 180.0 [3,446,940] 2,311,295 160.0 211,548 154,057 140.0 311,096 2,968,387 120.0 22,472,927 819.3％ 100.0 13.09％ 5.45％ 80.0 92.8％ 2013/3/31 2014/3/31 2015/3/31 2016/3/31 2017/3/31 2018/3/31 105,100 3.7％ Past 1 Year Past 2 Years Past 3 Years Past 4 Years Past 5 Years 260.04 MS&AD (1.6%) 15.0% [7.2%] 9.6% [3.1%] 59.1% [12.3%] 84.7% [13.1%] 259.98 TOPIX 15.9% 32.9% [15.3%] 18.5% [5.8%] 54.9% [11.6%] 83.6% [12.9%] 177.47 TOPIX Insurance 3.8% 130.00 36.6% [16.9%] 15.3% [4.9%] 59.8% [12.4%] 92.6% [14.0%] Sector Index 4,964.64 Notes: 1. The graph above shows the profit margin where an investment is made at the end of March 2013, taking into consideration dividends and share prices as of the end of March 2018. The MS&AD chart indexes the investment results, with dividends added to the share price (assuming no reinvestment of the dividends), with the investment amount at the end of March 2013 set as 100. Similarly, the indices compared 3,355 use both the TOPIX and the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s industry-specific index (insurance industry), with the data incorporating dividends. 2. The table above shows the investment return (including dividends) as of the end of March 2018, for investments from one year earlier (end of 12.90 March 2017) to five years earlier (end of March 2013). 0.68 3. The values within parentheses [ ] from two years earlier to five years earlier show the average annual return, annualized by taking the geometric mean of the investment return for the relevant period. 3.9% Source: Calculated by MS&AD Holdings based on data from Bloomberg (1.6%) *1 Figures are presented exclusive of the Good Results Return premiums of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance’s proprietary automobile insurance product “ModoRich,” which contains a special clause for premium adjustment and refund at maturity. 19.7% *2 The net income or net loss attributable to the parent company shareholder is disclosed. *3 Consolidated solvency margin ratios have been calculated for years beginning from FY2011 reflecting the revision of the Insurance Business Act, etc. 77,014 *4 Combined ratio figures (domestic non-life insurance) are based on the simple sums of non-consolidated figures for MSI, ADI, and Mitsui Direct General. For FY2010, however, combined ratio figures are based on the simple sums of non-consolidated figures for MSI, Aioi, NDI, and Mitsui Direct General. 50.0% *5 Group Core Profit = Consolidated net income Net capital gains/losses on stock portfolio (gains/losses on sales, etc.) Net evaluation ( upper limit ) 30,000 gains/losses on credit derivatives – Other incidental factors + Equity in earnings of the non-consolidated Group companies *6 Group ROE = Group Core Profit ÷ Consolidated total net assets (average of beginning and ending amounts excluding stock acquisition rights and non-controlling interest) － *7 Net income/(loss) per share (EPS) disclosed. (plan) 101.8% *8 Net income per share (EPS)–Diluted (EPS) disclosed. Diluted net income/(loss) per share data prior to FY2015 is not disclosed because there was no potential dilution during that period. *9 Stock price-related indicators are based on the market price of the stock at the end of the fiscal years. *10 Total shareholders’ return is calculated as follows: (fiscal year-end stock price – previous fiscal year-end stock price + annual dividends) 96.0% ÷ previous fiscal year-end stock price *11 Stock price volatility is the annualized standard deviation of returns based on daily closing prices. 92.0% *12 The aggregate amount of repurchase for FY2017 was ¥30.0 billion (upper limit), the acquisition period is from May 21, 2018, to September 14, 2018 (resolved at the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 18, 2018) 41,295 *13 Since share buybacks were not completed, the average repurchase price in FY2017 is not disclosed. *14 The Shareholder return ratio = (dividends applicable to the fiscal year (paid in December of that year and June of the following year) + [9,745] value of share repurchases during the period through the time of the general shareholders’ meeting in the following fiscal year) ÷ Group Core Profit for the fiscal year. 9,184 *15 Ratio of customers satisfied with accident response for automobile insurance (MSI and ADI). From FY2015, the client survey was modified from five stages to four stages. 613 *16 Rate of customers who are willing to recommend either MSI or ADI to their friends and acquaintances. From FY2015, the client survey was modified from five stages to four stages and MSI Aioi Life was included in the survey. 20,022 *17 Number of female managers in positions of section manager or higher. (Figures are for April 1 of the subsequent fiscal year.) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 047 Strategies by Business Domain Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business The Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business is the MS&AD Group’s core business and boasts the largest scale in Japan. The Group’s three unique non-life insurance companies leverage a variety of sales channels and partnerships, address the new kinds of risks arising from changes in the social environment and progress in technological innovation, and provide safety and peace of mind. (Simple sum of non-consolidated figures for Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, Group Numerical Management Targets Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance and Mitsui Direct General Insurance) Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 (¥ billion) (¥ trillion) （％） Group Core Profit (Next Challenge 2017) Net Premiums Written 300 3.00 105 Group Adjusted Profit Non-Life Insurance Combined Ratio* 1 287.8 (Vision 2021) E/I Combined Ratio*1 250 2.76 2.76 2.75 2.73 100 208.4 2.70 200 190.1 2.64 174.0 182.0 96.6 153.3 96.0 93.4 95.1 150 2.50 94.1 95 92.6 93.9 100 92.4 91.9 91.6 92.8 91.4 2.25 90 50 0 2.00 85 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Target) (Target) (Forecast) *1 Please see the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” on P. 92 for details. Business Strategies 1 Leveraging Diversity The Group leverages diversity, which is one of its strengths, in responding to changes in the social environment and technological innovation. Diversifying Customers’ Risks and Needs with Changes in the Social Environment Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Mitsui Direct General Insurance ● Leveraging comprehensive ● Unique company with its ● Direct sales of automobile Business strengths own distinctive character insurance for individual ● Global business development ● Seeking a close relationclients concepts ship with local communities ● High-quality products and services, low-price premiums ● Broad partnership centered ● Partnerships centered on Diverse on the Mitsui Group and the Toyota Group and the partnerships the Sumitomo Group Nissay Group ● New product development ● Development of innovative ● Development of enhanced Product based on a wide range of products that leverage ties with products and services unique business-to-business partners to customer-oriented, direct development transactions Example: Connected Automobile non-life insurance leveraging Example: 1DAY leisure Insurance (Pay How You Drive Example: eService discount special strengths insurance (on-demand type telematics automobile (insurance certificates not issued), leisure insurance) insurance for Toyota vehicles) Internet contract discount 048 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading 2 Vision 2021 Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Strategy Pursue the Group’s Comprehensive Strengths ●Standardize products/operations, launch the “BRIDGE” Maximize further synergies by leveraging the jointly developed non-life insurance claims services system Group’s comprehensive strengths along with (from 2019) ●Deepen life/non-life insurance product cross-selling, jointly utilizing the unique characteristics of each develop health-/medical-related products/services Group company ●Standardize/consolidate back-office operations Promote Digitalization ●Digitize the policy and claims payment administrative Accelerate the digitalization of business processes processes through R&D*2 investment and work ●Accelerate initiatives for automobile insurance using to improve value of customer experience and telematics technology and respond to autonomous driving technology business productivity ●Use AI to support agent operations, etc. Reform Product Portfolio ●Strengthen initiatives expanding casualty insurance Reform product portfolio by improving fire (responses to cyber and other new risks) and cultivate the insurance underwriting profit and expanding small and medium-sized enterprise market casualty insurance while maintaining ●Develop products to meet the sharing business and on-demand needs (release individual liability insurance for automobile insurance earnings business operators), etc. Reinforce R&D Expense Ratio Trend and Outlook*3 Continue to proactively invest in R&D that addresses 34.7％ environmental changes and increases productivity/quality 33.2％ 33.3％ Realize an expense ratio excluding R&D-related 32.2％ expenses*2 of 32.1% in FY2021 and the 30.0% level thereafter 32.1％ Expense ratio excluding 30.0% level *2. Costs that contribute to enhancing competitiveness (e.g., productiviR&D*2 costs ty/quality improvement) and address environmental changes *3. Simple sum of the expense ratios of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance 2010 2013 2017 2021 (FY) Future targets (Outlook) 3 Vision 2021 Core Strategies by Operating Company Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Nissay Dowa Mitsui Direct General Insurance Insurance Insurance ● Pursue growth strategies, address ● Establish brand value through ● Deepen marketing activities using environmental changes telematics strategies and ICT digitalization ● Proactively respond to new risks technologies ● Gain new customers through facing companies, etc. ● Accelerate partnerships in different increasingly sophisticated mass ● Leverage the products/services industries beginning with Toyota, Nissay marketing/online advertising development and underwriting and closely affiliated companies ● Undertake measures to expand direct expertise of overseas partners ● Strengthen contributions to local markets, which the other two companies communities by leveraging strengths in being focused on agent channels have the retail market been unable to penetrate INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 049 Strategies by Business Domain Domestic Life Insurance Business The Domestic Life Insurance Business is a key growth business that supports the MS&AD Insurance Group’s sustained enhancement of corporate value. Industry-leading growth and earnings potential will be realized by Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance, which offers medical/nursing care products as well as death benefit and other protection-type life insurance products, and Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance, which offers asset-building-type products designed to support retirement lifestyles. Group Numerical Management Targets Group Core Profit, Group Adjusted Profit Increase in EV*1, EEV*2 (Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance) Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) Group Core Profit (Next Challenge 2017) Increase in EV (Next Challenge 2017, left axis) 50 320 1,200 Group Adjusted Profit (Vision 2021) 45.0 EEV (Vision 2021, right axis) 1050.0 970.0 40 34.332.6 240 835.5 865.0 900 198.4 30 28.0 160 600 25.0 25.1 20.4 22.0 20 80 59.7 41.3 300 10 0 0 -52.0 -300 0 -60 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) (Forecast) (Target) (Target) (Forecast) (Target) (Target) •1 Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance, which provides protection-type Life Insurance Premiums (Gross Premiums) life insurance products, designated an increase in EV (Embedded Value) as one of its numerical management targets along with Group Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 Core Profit. Current statutory accounting is in some respects difficult to use for performance evaluation, partly because costs are (¥ trillion) concentrated at the time of sale but also because the corresponding 1.8 1.76 profit is realized in later years. However, EV is employed as a useful indicator for evaluating achievements and corporate value as it 1.60 evaluates future profits generated by in-force business at the present 1.6 1.55 1.50 1.54 and provides complementary financial information in statutory 1.50 1.50 accounting. In addition, Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance EV in principle 1.4 conforms to European Embedded Value (EEV). Note: See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” on P. 92 for details. 1.2 •2 Next Challenge 2017 used an increase in EV as a numerical management target, but Vision 2021 has switched to EEV. 1.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) (Forecast) (Target) (Target) Business Strategies 1 Leveraging Diversity Meeting increasingly diversified customer needs accompanying changes in the structure of society and customer lifestyles through these two life insurance companies that feature different business models (e.g., products, sales channels) Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance 個人年金は、 未来への贈り物。 Protection-type products Asset-building-type products Given the aging society, there is an increasing need for Asset-building-type insurance products (variable/fixed individual annuity Products medical/nursing care products as well as death benefit and insurance, variable/fixed whole life insurance) for which the need is other protection-type products (e.g., term life insurance, expanding due to the progression of an aging society address the income guarantee insurance, medical insurance). diversification of asset management to build retirement living funds. Develop diverse sales channels centered on cross-sellSales ing through the agents of the Group’s two core non-life Over-the-counter sales by financial institutions channels insurance companies, financial institutions, professional (e.g., banks, securities companies) life insurance agents and direct sales personnel. 050 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading 2 Vision 2021 Domestic Life Insurance Business Strategies ◆ Develop/provide products and services that meet customer needs through an accurate understanding of the progress of medical treatment and changes in the social structure, etc. ◆ Further strengthen marketing capability through our sales base as the largest non-life insurance group in Japan and our OTC channel, which holds the leading position in the industry. ◆ Build systems that can respond flexibly to changes in the environment such as the advance of the falling birthrate and aging population, the continuation of ultra-low interest-rate policies and the advance of digitalization. ◆ Extensively promote a customer-first policy in operations to improve quality and customer satisfaction. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance ● Provide protection-type products and services that help ● Expand asset-building-type products and services that resolve social issues, such as the increasing burden of meet the needs of society, such as responding to longevity nursing care and medical care, and support health promotion risks ● Further strengthen marketing capability through diverse ● Strengthen the support system for OTC sales at financial channels, with a focus on cross-selling based on integrated institutions by promoting digitalization, etc. life/non-life operations ● Enhance ALM that captures changes in investment ● Build a system to respond to changes in the environment markets and liability structures (infrastructure development and reform of the earnings structure) Life Insurance Cross-Selling Ratio*1 Products and services that meet the needs of (Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance) society and customers (Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance) （％） ● Expand the lifetime gift market and develop the new longevity 20 needs market 18％ 16％ 15 14.1％ 10 2017 2019 2021 (FY) (Outlook) (Outlook) *1. Cross-selling channels (professional, corporate, automobile sales dealers): The number of Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance in-force policy holders divided by the number of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance/Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance automobile and fire insurance policy holders 3 Vision 2021 Key Strategy Initiatives Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Deepen further cross-selling channels via Share high-quality know-how of education and integrated life and non-life operations training for sales and marketing within the Group Pursue the Group’s Strengthen collaboration between Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance and Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Comprehensive Strengthen internal Group collaboration for product development and services in the health and medical fields Strengths Increase efficiency by reviewing the division of roles within the Group such as sales administration Strengthen customer contacts by promoting digitalization Improve contact center operations mainly by using Support agent activities voice-recognition technologies Increase the sophistication and efficiency of product Further enhance the ease of understanding and Promote development and underwriting operations by using convenience for customers by improving paperless Digitalization digital technologies that include big data analysis operations in cooperation with agents Optimize administrative processes (increase productivity by using RPA (Robotic Process Automation) for routine tasks) Increase sophistication and efficiency for the insurance claims and benefits payment processes Reform Develop products based on advances in medical Develop products that address the age of greater the Product technology such as advanced medicine and longevity Portfolio address nursing care/dementia-related needs INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 051 Strategies by Business Domain International Business Leveraging the expertise and trust it has accumulated during its history of more than 90 years of international operations, the MS&AD Insurance Group has established a global network in 46 countries and regions* to provide insurance products and services that meet diverse customer needs. * Excluding the Cayman Islands, where SLI Cayman Limited (financial services business) is domiciled. Group Numerical Management Targets Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 Next Challenge 2017 Vision 2021 (¥ billion) (¥ billion) Group Core Profit (Next Challenge 2017) 117.0 Net Premiums Written 120 1,000 940.0 Group Adjusted Profit (Vision 2021) 892.7 818.7 90 800 66.0 60 600 38.2 34.6 37.0 461.6 27.9 415.9 30 400 0 200 -120 -125.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Target) (Target) (Forecast) Characteristics of the International Business The MS&AD Insurance Group’s international business operations encompass two businesses̶the international non-life insurance business (including the MS Amlin business, the Toyota retail business, the telematics business, and the Head Office reinsurance business) and the international life insurance business. Since commencing underwriting operations in Thailand in 1934, we have established a position as the largest insurance company in the ASEAN region along with a robust network. In February 2016, the MS&AD Insurance Group welcomed Amlin, a company with a global insurance business centering on the Lloyd’s of London insurance market in the U.K., putting into place a balanced portfolio spread across Asia, Europe and the Americas. Additionally, First Capital Insurance Limited, the largest non-life insurance company in Singapore, joined the Group in December 2017. MS&AD is now the No. 1 non-life insurance group in the Singapore market, solidifying its leading position in the ASEAN region. 1 International Non-Life Insurance Business To make decisions and manage operations in accordance with local customs while rigorously complying with the laws, regulations and business conventions of each country and region, regional holding companies have been established in Singapore, the U.K. and the U.S. Business is conducted based on the idea of being a good corporate citizen in each country and region. Especially in the high-growth-potential Asia region, the Group has a top-level business foundation, having instilled the MSIG brand in the region. Through a variety of efforts including support for government policy on insurance and the sharing of insurance technologies, the Group is contributing to economic growth in each country and region while also undertaking diverse activities to realize growth in its own business operations. MS Amlin Business MS Amlin, an insurance holding company with three core business segments of Lloyd’s, Reinsurance and Continental Europe Primary Insurance, is the core company in the international non-life insurance business. Growth synergies have materialized among its existing local companies in Asia and the Americas, thanks in part to joint efforts to create new insurance underwriting schemes, and the exchange of human assets has led to the more sophisticated management of risk on a group level. Toyota Retail Business and Telematics Business Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance leverages our strong partnership with the Toyota Group to develop the retail insurance business internationally, focusing on sales of automobile insurance through Toyota dealerships. We currently have insurance underwriting operations in 17 countries and regions, including most European countries, as well as China, Thailand and Australia. We are leveraging the telematics know-how of Insure The Box Limited, a core managing general agent for Box Innovation Group Limited in the U.K., which joined the Group in FY2015, to develop the telematics business under a four-region global structure centered on Japan, Europe, the Americas and Asia. We expect synergies to emerge in the Toyota retail business as well through the provision of new value added. Head Office Reinsurance Business The Head Office at Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance has engaged in the overseas inward reinsurance business as a means of effectively utilizing capital. Beginning in FY2017, this business is included in the scope of the international business from the standpoint of reinforcing overseas risk management alongside business expansion. We will engage in profit-focused underwriting for business partners with which we can maintain mediumand long-term relationships in both outward and inward reinsurance, and advance business while managing Groupwide risks. 052 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading 2 International Life Insurance Business We are investing in life insurance companies in countries where life insurance markets are projected to expand̶such as Indonesia, India and Malaysia̶with the aim of expanding sustainable profits. In 2017, the MS&AD Insurance Group invested in Challenger Limited in Australia (annuity insurance business) and ReAssure Jersey One Limited in the United Kingdom (closed book life insurance business*), in order to secure stable profits and acquire business know-how. * See the notes on P. 21. 3 Net Premiums Written and Net Income by Region and Business (¥ billion) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) 142.8 173.1 215.7 237.1 257.7 240.6 268.1 287.9 Net Premiums Written Asia Europe 60.9 64.4 85.4 99.6 121.1 499.6 498.7 522.6 (of which: MS Amlin) 391.1 430.2 450.1 Americas 43.7 41.4 56.4 66.2 69.4 66.4 71.1 68.2 Reinsurance Business 16.8 15.6 16.7 19.1 18.6 16.8 Head Office Reinsurance Business 57.9 64.4 International Business Total 262.2 287.8 369.0 415.9 461.6 818.7 892.7 940.0 Asia (89.6) 28.8 16.3 26.0 12.7 16.7 11.1 17.9 Europe (16.1) (11.9) 1.8 5.7 (3.1) 2.2 (116.2) 11.0 Net Income (of which: MS Amlin) 6.1 (109.3) 18.5 Americas 0.1 (7.7) (3.3) (7.9) 8.1 0.8 4.7 3.1 Reinsurance Business (6.3) 5.1 8.5 11.0 10.7 12.4 Head Office Reinsurance Business (26.0) 2.6 International Life Insurance Business 3.0 1.3 (1.2) 5.4 5.7 8.4 6.4 7.4 International Business Total (112.3) 13.5 18.0 38.2 27.9 34.6 (125.0) 37.0 * International Business figures are aggregates of the results for overseas consolidated subsidiaries, non-life insurance companies' overseas branches, and overseas non-consolidated affiliates, etc. Figures for business in each region include figures for the Toyota retail business. * Figures in the “Total” rows include head office adjustments and others. and are not equal to the sum of figures for each segment and each region. * Net income is on a Group Core Profit basis (Group Adjusted Profit basis in FY2018). The international life insurance business shows equity income. * Reinsurance business is included in figures for MS Amlin in FY2017 because it was integrated into MS Amlin together with MSI Lloyd's business in December 2016. * International life insurance business includes Challenger and ReAssure in addition to the former Asian life insurance business. Business Strategy The MS&AD Insurance Group’s international business aims to increase earnings by tapping into market growth based on diverse product and sales strategies that leverage its strengths in each business and region. As a growth driver for the Group, the international business aggressively pursues investment projects and global partnership strategies that contribute to sustainable growth. <Shared Strategies> Promote digitalization in tune with the characteristics of the region Strengthen ties with global major insurance companies and local partners International Non-Life Insurance Business Increase profitability through risk and earnings diversification <Regional Strategies> 【Asia】 【Europe】 【Americas】 ● Reinforce No. 1 position in ASEAN ● Continue underwriting with emphasis ● Maintain prudent underwriting policy region on soundness and profitability in matching with business environment ● Tap into growth markets, including India accordance with market cycles, mainly centered on MS Amlin ● Diversify business portfolio further and China (Expand sales channels, strengthen ties with partners, etc.) ● Steadily expand earnings ● Steady growth and enhancing synergies with MS First Capital 【Toyota Retail Business】【Telematics Business】 ● Strengthen business in existing countries and develop business in new countries to reliably earn profits ● Develop the telematics business and create business models in the mobility service field with Toyota Motor based on a four-region global structure in Japan, Europe, the Americas and Asia 【Head Office Reinsurance Business】 ● Build inward reinsurance portfolio that helps global risk diversification and underwrite business focusing on profitability ● Maintain integrated operations for both inward and outward reinsurance and continue business with selected partner reinsurance companies International ● In Asia life insurance, steadily expand profits, and pursue synergies between life and non-life insurance through OTC, sales agent Life Insurance and other channels, launching products matching with customer needs and improving governance Business ● Steadily expand profits at and acquire business know-how from Challenger in Australia and ReAsssure in the U.K. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 053 Strategies by Business Domain Discussion on International Business Strategy by Global Leaders International Business Drives Growth at the MS&AD Group In 46 countries and regions, the Group’s international business provides a broad range of insurance-related services to local companies and individual customers, in addition to Japanese companies doing business globally. In Asia, we are the only non-life insurance group that engages in direct underwriting business in all 10 ASEAN member countries. In 2017, we acquired First Capital, the largest player in Singapore, solidifying our position as the largest non-life insurance group in the ASEAN region. Our operations have grown considerably in the massive markets of China and India. In Europe, MS&AD does business with more than half of the major listed companies in Germany and France. In the Americas, we have authorized licenses in all 50 states. Across the Americas, including Mexico and Brazil, profits have steadily increased. In 2016, MS&AD acquired Amlin, which had the second-largest syndicate at Lloyd’s, nearly doubling the size of the Group’s international business. At the same time, the acquisition brought balance to the geographic breakdown of the international business, with Asia/4, Europe/4, and the Americas/3. This fiscal year, MS&AD launched its new medium-term management plan Masahiro Matsumoto “Vision 2021.” The international business is positioned within “Vision 2021” as an important driver of growth for the Group, as seen in our target for increasing the profit contribution of the international business to roughly 40% of Group Adjusted Profit in the next four years. While considering the characteristics and Executive Officer (International Business) growth potential of markets in each country and region, we aim to disperse risks MS&AD Holdings and improve capital efficiency in the provision of high-value-added products and services, while promoting digitalization based on regional characteristics and strengthening our response to global programs that originate overseas. In order to support sustained growth, we will reinforce governance in the international business and develop and retain global human assets. Contributing to MS&AD Group’ s Growth as the Core Company in International Business 2018 marks the two-year anniversary of MS&AD welcoming MS Amlin into the Group. We have broadened the geographical footprint of the Group, with our core business divisions of Lloyd's, Reinsurance and Continental Europe Primary Insurance producing approximately 50% of the Group's overall international business. As such, we relish the opportunity to be the driver of MS&AD's international growth. Through strength in both the insurance and reinsurance markets, MS Amlin continues to contribute to the Group's growth on both a qualitative and quantitative basis. We play an essential role in the expansion of MS&AD's international presence, and support the Group in reaching its goal of increasing the share of the international business in Group Adjusted Profit to about 40%, as defined in the new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021”. In today's rapidly-changing marketplace, responding to our clients' evolving needs in both an agile and dedicated way is crucial to the achievement of sustainable future growth. As a Lloyd's business, we are committed to developing the innovative, cutting-edge specialty risk solutions for which our market is renowned. We continue to attract and retain talented people who share our vision and have the sophisticated underwriting expertise needed to maintain the high-quality service synonymous with the MS Amlin name. 2017 was an exceptional year, and our market was heavily impacted by the Simon Beale combination of very high levels of natural catastrophes and already challenging market conditions. However, MS Amlin is making steady progress with its profitability remediation CEO (concurrently serving as Executive programme. Through combining our traditional market expertise with forward-looking Officer at Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance) innovation through new technologies and process optimization, MS Amlin aims to MS Amlin plc contribute to MS&AD becoming the “Insurer of the future”. 054 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Reinforcing Our No. 1 Position in the ASEAN Region Our ambition in Asia is to reinforce our position as the leading non-life insurer in the ASEAN region, a market that is expected to grow and is of considerable strategic importance to the Group. Working through our insurance business activities, our goal is to contribute to the ongoing development of countries throughout Asia. With this in mind, we have identified four key priorities: market leadership, sustainable profitability, business excellence as well as Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and governance. On our acquisitions, MS First Capital has solidified our market leadership in both Singapore and ASEAN’s non-life insurance markets, while results from synergies with MS Amlin have been encouraging and will continue to expand. Under its new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021”, the MS&AD Insurance Group is looking to its international business to generate an estimated 40% of Group Adjusted Profit. To this end, we believe that expanding earnings through digitalization and reducing costs are key. We are promoting our initiatives in each market through our website and social media channels to reach, engage and serve the needs of our customers better. We will also continue to invest in enhancing our IT infrastructure and online capabilities to provide a seamless digital experience for the connected Alan Wilson customers of today. Within MSIG, we are creating a culture of innovation and digital excellence. Several internal awards across the region encourage innovation and we continue to invest in employee development ensuring that they are well equipped to tackle any challenges CEO (concurrently serving as Executive ahead, and at the same time manage to meet the growing expectations of our Officer of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance) customers. MSIG Holdings (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Governance and compliance, embedded with ERM in our business operations is also something that we will continue to strengthen. ERM and Compliance are a continuous journey for our 5,000 employees to be aware of the risks and the impact that they can have on business. Contributing to a Safe and Secure Mobility Society through Telematics Insurance In March 2015, MS&AD acquired Box Innovation Group Limited (BIG), the largest telematics insurance company in the United Kingdom, entering into the telematics automobile insurance market in the United Kingdom. Thereafter, using BIG’s know-how, MS&AD established Toyota Insurance Management Solutions USA, LLC (TIMS) in April 2016 in a joint venture with the Toyota Group to develop the telematics business in the US. By providing local insurance companies with services to acquire and analyze driving data from Toyota’s connected cars, we aim to develop operations across the US in Toyota telematics insurance that reflects driving behavior. In October 2017, we established AIS Asia (Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Services Asia Pte. Ltd.) in Singapore as a base for the telematics business in Southeast Asia, and began collaborating with Toyota Motor in the ride sharing field. The Group aims to further develop its telematics know-how under the four-region global structure of Japan, Europe, the Americas and Asia. We are also taking on the challenge of developing insurance products and services for new mobility services, such as car sharing, ride sharing and multi-modal operations, by utilizing our expertise in data analysis that we have accumulated in telematics. Naomi Ito Through collaboration with Toyota Motor and by using our expertise in the telematics business, we are keen to take on new challenges in the new mobility Managing Executive Officer services field with the aim of contributing to a safe and secure mobility society (Telematics Business) through telematics insurance. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 055 Strategies by Business Domain Risk-Related Services Business Risk-Related Services Business is responsible for important roles within the MS&AD Insurance Group’s value creation processes. Risk-Related Services Business units provide diverse solutions globally in cooperation with Group units engaged in the insurance and financial services businesses, and thereby making an important contribution to realizing the Group’s mission. Overview of Risk-Related Services Business The MS&AD Insurance Group provides non-insurance products and services to meet customers’ needs for risk solutions, such as the risk management, nursing care, and assistance businesses. Risk Management Business Overview of Risk Management Business The Group’s risk management business is developing its operations based on a business model that emphasizes three concepts – “(1) early risk discovery, (2) risk magnitude and incidence frequency reduction, and (3) eventuated risk impact minimization.” Insurance and other financial products are employed with respect of the third of those concepts, having the role of “alleviating economic impacts.” The operational scope of risk management business units encompasses all three of the concepts. Working in close cooperation with insurance business units, the risk management business units provide customers with the following types of risk-related services. 1 Provision of risk research and simple diagnoses along with loss prevention advice Consulting services related to the formulating of a business continuity plan 2 and a crisis management plan of companies and other organizations 3 Implementation of surveys and studies of the latest risk-related information and dissemination of that information via seminars and newsletters The Group unit responsible for these MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting's Global Network operations is MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc., which is the largest risk consulting companies in Japan. Utilizing its Interisk Global Management (Bermuda) Limited bases in Singapore, Thailand, China, and Bermuda, MS&AD InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting is globally developing its risk solution services business. MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. (Tokyo, Sapporo, Nagoya, Osaka, and Fukuoka) InterRisk Asia InterRisk Consulting (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Interisk Asia Pte. Ltd. TOPICS Multifaceted Support for ESG Investment at Corporations Example of analysis: Change in volume of hydrological balance due to climate change ESG investment, which entails making investment decisions based on information about the environment (E), society (S) and corporate governance (G), has been expanding rapidly around the world. Appropriately responding to trends in ESG investment has become an urgent issue for all layers of management at corporations. In light of this situation, MS&AD InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc., has begun to offer support services for planning and implementing corporate ESG strategies, bundling together an expanded list of optional services that include consulting services for water risk assessments, assistance with human rights risk management and assistance for refinement of risk management preparedness. 056 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Business Performance FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of risk surveys 1,009 1,092 1,031 1,189 conducted Domestic 526 Domestic 500 Domestic 468 Domestic 506 Overseas 483 Overseas 592 Overseas 563 Overseas 683 Number of risk-related 75 68 84 72 reports issued Number of trainings/ 3,873 4,199 3,997 4,720 seminars arranged Number of media appearances 232 306 377 386 Group Core Profit ¥200 million ¥200 million ¥300 million ¥100 million Other Risk-Related Services Business Nursing Care Business Assistance Business The MS&AD Insurance Group inaugurated its nursing care Through ANSHIN DIAL, we are developing comprehensive business in 1989. assistance call center business related to automobiles (road Currently, two Group companies are supplying high-quality assistance services) and homes (house support services). nursing care services that provide seniors with comfort and By responding to requests for assistance from people peace of mind. MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Care throughout Japan, we are cooperating with our partners in Network operates fee-based retirement homes (currently this field to relieve customers’ worries and concerns and operating two such facilities as of March 31, 2018) while provide peace of mind. Fureai Do-Life Services moved in 2000 to become the first Japanese insurance industry unit to operate elderly daycare centers (operating four such facilities as of March 31, 2018). Major Operating Companies MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Care Network Co., Ltd. MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. is the largest risk MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Care Network operates consulting company in Japan. It provides companies and government and administers fee-based retirement homes offering nursing entities with consulting, risk surveys, research and investigation, services, provides support for in-home nursing care (creating information provision, and other services related to diverse kinds of care plans), and dispatches home care workers (home risks. helpers). By providing high-quality elderly care services, the With overseas bases in Singapore, Thailand, China, and Bermuda, company strives to create a society in which seniors can enjoy the company is seeking to provide risk solutions throughout the world. pleasant and cheerful lives. Date established: January 1993 Number of employees: 240 (As of April 1, 2018) Date established: October 1990 Number of employees: 283* (As of April 1, 2018) MS&AD Insurance Group shareholding: 100% MS&AD Insurance Group shareholding: 100% *Excluding registered care workers. URL ▶ http://www.irric.co.jp/index.html (Japanese language only) URL ▶ http://www.msk-carenet.com/docs/index.html (Japanese language only) ANSHIN DIAL Co., Ltd. Fureai Do-Life Services Co., Ltd. ANSHIN DIAL is a company that engages in comprehensive Fureai Do-Life Services operates elderly daycare centers, and it assistance call center operations through two call centers in currently operates four facilities in four regions. Tokorozawa and Naha, boasting an affiliate network of more All centers employ physical therapists and other staff to than 5,000 companies nationwide. ANSHIN DIAL provides its implement functional training programs and other programs customers with services that alleviate their worries, such as associated with preventive and rehabilitation care. They also roadside assistance and support fixing problems at home 24 provide services that are deeply rooted in local communities, hours a day and 365 days a year. based on cooperation with NPOs and schools. Date established: November 1989 Number of employees: 948 (As of April 1, 2018) Date established: March 2000 Number of employees: 67 (As of April 1, 2018) MS&AD Insurance Group shareholding: 57.55% MS&AD Insurance Group shareholding: 100% URL ▶ https://www.anshin-dial.jp/ (Japanese language only) URL ▶ http://www.fureai-do.co.jp/ (Japanese language only) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 057 Strategies by Business Domain Financial Services Business In its Financial Services Business, the MS&AD Insurance Group offers various financial solutions and services that make use of its strengths. The Group is developing and providing various new financial products and services to address increasingly diverse customer needs, leveraging the full range of its capabilities as an insurance and financial services group. Overview of Financial Services Business The MS&AD Insurance Group offers the following kinds of financial products and services. Alternative risk transfer (ART) refers to techniques other than traditional insurance policies to transfer risks. ART entails the use of financial technologies and capital markets to provide risk solutions. ART products include derivatives and securitized risk ART Business products, with typical products including weather derivatives and earthquake derivatives. We are strengthening the client base and our product development capabilities while monitoring changes in the social environment and market conditions. We encourage the spread of individual defined contribution pension plans (iDeCo), the demand for which has been increasing across Defined Contribution society with declining birthrates and an aging population. We also offer meticulous consulting services for introducing corporate Pension Business defined contribution pension systems. We aim to expand business as this market grows alongside revisions to laws and regulations. We work through Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management̶established in cooperation with Mitsui Sumitomo Group financial institutions̶ Asset Management to undertake the investment advisory business, the investment trust management business and other kinds of business. With more than Business ¥10 trillion in assets under management, Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management is one of Japan’s largest asset management companies. Venture Capital Working through MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Venture Capital, we make investments in promising venture businesses and Business provide support for the growth and development of investee companies. ART: Outline of Weather Derivatives Defined Contribution Pensions: Initiatives with iDeCo Number of iDeCo subscribers in overall market Weather derivative (Source: iDeCo Web site) contract Mitsui Sumitomo (People) Insurance 1,000,000 Customer Premium payment 853,723 800,000 Aioi Nissay Dowa Funds are received Insurance when a contractually 600,000 predetermined index 430,929 value is reached 400,000 212,944 257,579 See the “Special Feature” on P. 65 for details. 183,543 200,000 0 March-end March-end March-end March-end March-end (FY) Group Core Profit (¥ billion) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Sharp growth in iDeCo Support 4.3 2.6 0.2 5.4 “good health subscribers due to expansion in and longevity” * Profits declined in fiscal 2016 due to a major loss related to financial guarantees (cancellation loss). the subscriber pool in January 2017 ● Sales via major partners and agencies ● Broad comprehensive proposals that Major Operating Companies leverage the diversity of the Group The Group’s Financial Services Business is being developed principally by MSI, ADI, and the following MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Venture Capital Co., Ltd. operating companies. Date established: December 1990 Number of employees: 12 (As of April 1, 2018) MS&AD Insurance Group shareholding: 100% Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited URL ▶ http://www.msivc.co.jp/top_en.html Assets under management: ¥11,545.3 billion (As of March 31, 2018) Date established: December 2002 MS&AD Loan Services Co., Ltd. Number of employees: 643 (As of April 1, 2018) MS&AD Insurance Group shareholding: 20% (As of April 1, 2018) Scope of operations: Entrusted administration services for customers within and URL ▶ https://www.smam-jp.com/english/index.html outside the Group, credit guarantee services, and loan services for individuals * Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited has announced a Date established: October 1976 basic agreement to merge with Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. After the Number of employees: 162 (As of April 1, 2018) MS&AD Insurance merger, the MS&AD Group is scheduled to hold a 15% interest in the Group shareholding: 100% merged company, which will continue to remain an equity-method affiliate. URL ▶ http://www.ms-ad-ls.co.jp/site/index (Japanese language only) 058 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Where we are heading Asset Management Strategy Asset management at the MS&AD Insurance Group is undertaken with an emphasis on stability and liquidity to prepare for the payment of insurance claims and benefits, and with the objective of ensuring stable returns on investments using ALM* based on the characteristics of the insurance liabilities. The MS&AD Insurance Group aims to improve return on risk by dispersing investments in diverse and sophisticated investment assets while considering stability and reducing risk assets by accelerating the reduction of strategic equity holdings. *ALM: Asset Liability Management. See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” on P. 92 for details. Asset Management Conditions Response to the Bank of Japan’s Negative Interest Rate Policy FY2017 Investments in Foreign Bonds, Foreign Stocks and Alternative Investments (Invested Amount Basis) (¥ billion) Amid a low interest rate environment with Negative Interest Total for three Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Nissay Mitsui Sumitomo Rate Policy at the at the Bank of Japan, we avoid companies Insurance Dowa Insurance Aioi Life Insurance investments in domestic bonds with negative yields and Foreign bonds +119.1 +55.0 +48.6 +15.5 diversify investments in assets with relatively high expected Of which, +33.4 +24.8 +8.5 +0.0 corporate bonds returns (e.g., foreign bonds, foreign stocks, alternative Foreign stocks +13.4 +11.7 -2.9 +4.6 investments) while considering risks in an effort to secure Alternative investments +29.2 +8.4 +10.9 +9.9 investment income. Total +161.7 +75.1 +56.7 +30.0 Practicing Responsible Investment On June 1, 2015, the MS&AD Insurance Group became a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment. In accordance with these principles, we engage in investment activities that take into consideration ESG (environmental, social, governance) during the decision-making process. Actual Examples of ESG Investments Implementation of Japan’s Stewardship Code In November 2017, Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance invested in In May 2014, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Industrialize Africa bonds issued by the African Development Bank. Insurance declared their acceptance of Japan’s Stewardship Code and have since engaged in constructive dialogue about ESG with the Investment AUD 30 million (about ¥2.6 billion) companies in which they have invested. Used within the Industrialize Africa framework, a project Number of companies in which we have invested that aims to industrialize Africa and achieve sustainable and engaged in dialogue (July 2016–June 2017) economic and social development across Africa Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Nissay Dowa Total Insurance Insurance (simple sum) In February 2017, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, Aioi Nissay Dowa Dialogue with major Insurance, Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance and Mitsui invested companies 258 157 415 Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance jointly invested in Sustainable Dialogue about the exercise of voting rights 33 66 99 Development Bonds (SDBs) issued by the World Bank. Examples of Disapprovals in the Exercise of Voting Rights Investment USD 120 million (about ¥13.5 billion) Proposal Reason for disapprovals Used to finance projects that support sustainable The dividend payout ratio was at a low level despite strong development in developing countries earnings, as indicated by record-high profits for several terms, and Appropriation of sufficient resources for returning value to shareholders. Despite surplus (low dividend engaging in dialogue, management showed little awareness of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance help payout ratio) dividends and it was uncertain if dividends would improve in solve social issues by investing in funds subsequent years. (Disapproval) ･ Help accelerate innovation by investing in funds that Nomination of An outside director candidate was not selected, despite director (no outside communicating the importance of outside directors and requesting support companies driving growth toward a future society, directors) the nomination of an outside director since before. (Disapproval) such as in AI technology, robotics and technologies that contribute to the realization of a hydrogen society The company proposed to nominate a director who had been ･ Support for revitalizing regional economies by investing in deeply involved in management during multiple violations of the Nomination of funds established to support growth at companies that director (scandal) Anti-Monopoly Act and several administrative penalties against the play key roles in local communities company. Management did not provide a logical explanation for the proposal despite discussions about these concerns. (Disapproval) For more detailed information, please see the official websites of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance. Policy for Japan's Stewardship Code URL ▶https://www.ms-ins.com/english/company/aboutus/stewardship/ https://www.aioinissaydowa.co.jp/english/pdf/stewardshipcode.pdf Report about Stewardship Activities URL ▶https://www.ms-ins.com/company/aboutus/stewardship/pdf/20160930.pdf (Japanese language only) https://www.aioinissaydowa.co.jp/corporate/policy/pdf/katsudohoukoku2015.pdf (Japanese language only) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 059 Special Feature Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society Remarkable advances in the fields of science technology and medicine have enriched our lives, starting the era of a 100-year life span. Meanwhile, new social issues have emerged, such as human impact on the global environment dramatically increasing and disasters and accidents growing in scale and severity. Through the insurance and financial services business, the MS&AD Insurance Group aims to realize a resilient and sustainable society by solving these social issues while supporting our customers around the world who face various challenges. Contributing to the Development of a Vibrant Society and Helping Secure a Sound Future for the Planet Story of Our CSV Social Issues Diverse risks surrounding society Resilient and Creating Shared Value (CSV) sustainable society 1 through the MS&AD Business “World Map of Natural Catastrophes” ・Stability in people’s lives (P. 67) ・Dynamic business activities Model Reduce Provision of safety and the economic peace of mind 1 burden Deal with new risks Global insurance / financial services business P. 62 Identify and inform on 1 risks Five Business Domains 2 Support good health and longevity P. 63 Prevent risks from occurring / minimize the impact 3 Contribute to climate change mitigation Systems Supporting Corporate Value Creation and adaptation P. 64 Resilient system that Optimum resource can respond to allocation and appropriate changing environment risk management 2 4 Medium-Term ERM PP. 38, 70 Work toward realization of Management Plan P. 32 leaving no one behind Management platforms that Strengthening P. 66 enable employee to play active role and quality improvement corporate governance 3 Human Asset Development Corporate Governance 4 * See P. 13 for Initiatives for Seven Key Issues and Quality Improvement P. 74 P. 77 (Creating Shared Value). 060 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society Voices of Our Colleagues 2 Julianna Shing Risk Management, MS Amlin My main task is to support the continued enhancement of ERM (Enterprise Risk Management), specifically to support the enhancement of the governance around the Internal Model (which is a key element of the ERM framework in MS&AD). This involves the exchange of opinions and information on ERM with Japanese colleagues in Tokyo, and together we are enhancing the design and implementation of the governance framework around the Internal Model. By ensuring that the Company has an appropriate amount of capital in relation to the risks that it takes underwriting insurance policies and managing assets, we are providing the policy holders with the assurance that the Company is sufficiently financially sound to pay claims as they fall due. 3 Wanda Irawan Anwarsyah Human Resources & Learning Development, MSIG Indonesia I am in charge of the Company’s Learning & Development Program, which includes training management, employee skill development plans, talent management, and the performance management system. The main objective of my job is to make sure everyone in the Company creates their own development plan and participates in at least one development program every year, which as a result enables every employee to contribute to the Company’s performance. I believe that perhaps someday my efforts to nurture many insurance experts in our Company will help raise awareness of the importance of insurance among people in Indonesia. Beyond generating profits for the Company, I think these actions will also realize a society able to provide people with the financial security that allows them to live worry free. 3 Pasquale Carlucci Social Media and Communications, Aioi Nissay Dowa Europe One of my roles is supporting internal communications such as engaging all employees across Europe around key issues that are important to the business, and increasing interaction and dialogue between our colleagues and senior management. This is because we believe that an engaged workforce strengthens the brand and our services offered, which in turn improves the resilient and sustainable development of society. In fact, we have worked on internal communication around special projects and campaigns including Diversity & Inclusion in the workplace, Wellbeing week for employees’ health and productivity management; and GDPR as a key regulatory development in Europe. 4 Karnkitti Patanasuthikul Corporate Planning, MSI Thailand Branch My responsibilities include corporate functions such as corporate planning, supporting governance and internal control processes, overseeing internal and external communication, as well as company activities such as human resource development, quality management, and CSR activities. My work at the Thailand Branch specifically revolves around corporate governance improvement along with compliance and risk. I am proud that my daily work contributes to the Company’s transparency and its sound decision making. An insurance company should create trust among the people, and I believe we work every day to fulfill our roles and responsibilities. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 061 Special Feature Creating Shared Value 1 Deal with new risks 150.4 According to a survey by the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT), cyberattack-related communications targeting networks in Japan have escalated annually, reaching 150.4 billion incidents in 2017, a level that is 2.7 times higher than in 2015. Moreover, it billion incidents has become essential for companies that conduct business globally to design sophisticated countermeasures on a global scale that can address the surge in diversity and complexity of these cyber risks. Addressing the new needs of our customers Our customers’ needs have changed and diversified along with the emergence of new risks resulting from changes in the social environment. The MS&AD Insurance Group has worked to rapidly incorporate these changes in society by investing in industry-academia collaborations and start-up companies in Silicon Valley. In this way, the Group has been advancing initiatives that can deliver optimal risk solutions to our customers. Story of my CSV MSI and ADI provide jointly developed cyber insurance in preparation for cyber risks, but it has become necessary for us to go beyond insurance-based economic compensation in response to the more advanced Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance and sophisticated cyberattacks of today. We must now provide support in Commercial Product terms of services, including preventing cyberattacks. Therefore, we have Underwriting Department joined forces with a cyber-security firm that offers the latest expertise in this Cyber Insurance Underwriting Division field to deliver services designed to evaluate cyber risks from a multitude of angles, as well as to provide support when cyber-attacks occur for the initial response and for minimizing and mitigating damage. Nozomi Kanematsu Challenging the Future of Insurance from Silicon Valley This program dispatches employees directly to Silicon Valley from the individual operating companies in Japan and 1 MS&AD Garage Program overseas, and provides support for introducing and collaborating with venture companies that hold the latest technologies and business models with the potential to solve the pain points of the individual companies. By investing in start-up companies that have taken leadership roles in advanced technologies and business 2 MS&AD Ventures (Newly established) models, and by pursuing strategic successes while collaborating with operating companies in Japan and overseas, this program contributes to the sustainable growth and earnings of the Group on a global basis. Naoya Osugi, Product Department, Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance In order to unearth advanced technologies and new services that deliver solutions for business-related challenges, MSI Aioi Life participated in the MS&AD Garage Program. Upon meeting directly with multiple venture companies from Silicon Valley and participating in seminars primarily related to Insurtech, we were able to link the latest valuable information to the Head Office. In this way, we are also tackling ways to change the mind-set within the organization as a breath of fresh air for the Head Office that will instill the sense of speed, innovative conception, and other aspects of how Silicon Valley conducts business. Takashi Sato, Corporate Planning Department (Silicon Valley overseas representative), Holding Company Silicon Valley is not a place one comes to find the right answers; it is a place for taking action under one’s own initiative to create the right answers. Following my appointment as the first overseas representative in Silicon Valley in May 2017, this is the most common piece of advice I have received here. We are not searching for the future of insurance; rather, the 47 countries and regions in which the Group operates are striving together as one to create the future of insurance on our own. 062 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Aiming for a Resilient and 2 Sustainable Society Special Feature Creating Shared Value Support “good health and longevity” The average life span in Japan has continued to rise steadily, and is expected to reach 84.02 100 Years years for males and 90.40 years for females in 2050. The peak age of death is approaching 87 for males and 93 for females, however, indicating that we have entered an era where it is no longer rare for people to live past the average lifespan. As Japan approaches this super-aging society, there has been a growing demand for asset building schemes that supplement public pensions, as well as for gifting and inheritance schemes that transfer assets seamlessly to the next generation. Source: National Institute of Population and Social Security Research Population Projection for Japan (2017 estimates) / Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare Abridged Life Table for Japan 2016 Supporting the “100-year life” society Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance is working to enhance its lineup of products and services so that it can address the various needs required for our customers to live a more enriching life after retirement. In February 2018, they began selling a new tontine-type* annuity insurance product, the first of its kind in the industry, as a lump-sum payment foreign currency denominated annuity insurance product aimed at supporting enjoyable lifestyles in the 100-year life society. Since operations began in 2002, they have acquired know-how through our continuous support for asset building among our customers via over-the-counter sales at financial institutions. By utilizing this know-how to manage good Preparing for dementia and nursing care yield foreign currency assets and improve the tontine-type aspect, they have made this the first such product in the industry that enables annuities to be received immediately starting one The number of persons certified for support and long-term month after signing and throughout the policy holder's entire care under the public nursing care insurance system as life. As such, it has received the support of our customers. publicized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has increased annually ever since the system was 2018年5月版 *Tontine refers to a system for transferring launched in 2000. In fact, by 2015 this number reached a annuities whereby protections for the level that was approximately 2.5 times higher than that of deceased parties are curbed and the the year the system began. In consideration of this あしたの、よろこび 通貨選択生存保障重視型個人年金保険 difference is transferred to the surviving situation and in order to further enhance preparations for parties, thereby enabling those living the economic burden related to nursing care, MSI Aioi Life longer lives to receive a greater annuity. The name of this system originates from renewed its Whole Life Care Protection Policy. Specifithe insurance scheme proposed by cally, we added protection for dementia care, which imparts Lorenzo de Tonti of Italy. the greatest burden of all types of nursing care, thereby 「あしたの、よろこび」は、 “長生き”に備える年金保険です。 enabling more generous preparations for uncertainty 契約締結前交付書面（契約概要／注意喚起情報）兼 商品パンフレット この書面は、「 契約締結前交付書面」 「商品パンフレット」 と で構成されています。 「 契約締結前交付書面」は、ご契約 のお申込みに際しての重要な事項を「契約概要」 「 注意喚起情報」に分類のうえ記載しています。ご契約前に必ず 十分にお読みいただき、内容をご確認・ご了承のうえ、お申込みいただきますようお願いいたします。 商品パンフレット P1 契約概要 P23 注意喚起情報 P33 regarding the growing social problem of nursing care. 「あしたの、よろこび」は、三井住友海上プライマリー生命を引受保険会社とする生命保険商品です。 預 金とは 異 なり、元 本 保 証 は ありませ ん 。 Story of my CSV My job is to make product pamphlets and explanatory materials. It is important for us to utilize the expertise that is unique to the Group and deliver helpful information of which our customers are unaware, such as that our customers themselves are increasingly likely to live longer and information regarding what they should do to prepare for living a long, enriching life. Because many of our customers are elderly, we prepare materials that Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance explain the product features in easy-to-understand terms and that also consider visual Product and Marketing Department aspects. We also work together with financial institution-affiliated agencies to provide Marketing Group information that is easy to understand from the perspective of our customers. Makiko Watanabe INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 063 Special Feature Creating Shared Value 3 Contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation Prediction Map Showing Changes in Flood Frequencies Predicting the impact of climate change As climate change progresses, the risk of physical damage Climate Change for Flood (LaRC-Flood(TM)) Project has and profit loss, such as that from floods and drought, is received the cooperation of Professor Hirabayashi of expected to increase in the future. With the adoption of Paris Shibaura Institute of Technology, and Associate Professor Agreement in 2015, risks that emerge during the process of Yamazaki of the Institute of Industrial Science, at the shifting to a carbon-free society (stricter regulation of University of Tokyo, and is based on the research results of existing products and services, and reputation risks, such as Global Flood Risk under Climate Change. * This research the loss of support from customers for business models that was also mentioned in the UN Intergovernmental Panel on emit high volumes of CO2, etc.) may also have a major impact Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report. on business activities. Understanding the management risks Companies with operational bases throughout the world related to climate change is essential to formulating can utilize this map to generally grasp the impact of corporate management strategies and is, at the same time, long-term flood damage that they might incur. important information for investors when making long-term Scientific analysis of the impact to weather disaster that investments. As such, it is now of utmost importance for will be brought about by these climate change is still in the companies to analyze the impact that climate change will on-going research phase. Together with these two have on their own business activities. universities, MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting is also As an initiative to “identify and inform on risks,” the advancing research to elucidate the causal relationship MS&AD Insurance Group launched a platform in May 2018 between climate change and flood risk. The MS&AD Group is that enables users to view the results of long-term forecasts pouring its energy into solving social issues by tackling the regarding changes in flood frequencies that will coincide with risk of climate change continuously through collaborations of climate change on a free web-based geographic information industry, government and academia. (web-GIS) system. This Large-Scale Risk Assessment of *Hirabayashi Y, Mahendran R, Koirala S, Konoshima L, Yamazaki D, Watanabe S, Kim H and Kanae S (2013) Global flood risk under climate change. Nat Clim Chang., 3(9), 816-821. doi:10.1038/nclimate1911 Story of my Over the past year through the consulting work for our CSV customers, I have recognized that many companies have defined climate change as a major management risk. (Mr. Echizenya) MS&AD InterRisk Research & MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting Consulting As a member of the environment section, I was able to Risk Management Third Department Corporate Planning Department CSR & Environment Section Risk Measurement and help launch this project by working with Mr. Echizenya and Assessment Section Senior Consultant Consultant other members from the section on natural disasters. I hope that we can continue working together on this challenge. (Mr. Terasaki) Kousuke Terasaki Wataru Echizenya 064 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society The IPCC Fifth Assessment Report predicts that under the worst-case +4.8℃ scenario where no effective measures are taken, average global temperatures will rise by a maximum of 4.8°C by the end of this century as compared with the present. Given the understanding that there is a close relationship that exists between climate change and abnormal extreme weather, weather disasters are also expected to become more severe and frequent. Hedging against management risks resulting from extreme weather In addition to weather disasters such as floods and typhoons, other unseasonable weather, such as long rainfall and unusually high and low temperatures, hold the potential to bring about significant losses to business activities. Upon clearly defining the risks that coincide with this type of abnormal weather, the Group has sophisticated methods for reducing the economic burden caused when risks occur . One of these methods is weather derivatives. Weather derivatives are effective in avoiding and mitigating losses caused to businesses and stabilizing earnings by automatically transferring the right to receive compensation if certain conditions exceed (or fall below) the baseline temperature, precipitation, wind speed, snow fall, hours of sunlight, or some other predefined weather indicator. MSI works with MSI GuaranteedWeather, LLC, a wholly owned MSI subsidiary and global weather risk management company located in Kansas, USA, to sell weather derivatives in Transaction Examples Japan and overseas. Since December 2016, MSI GuarnateedWeather has operated a system that utilizes satellite observaPurpose of Industries Climate Risk tion data from NASA and other sources to design products Weather Derivatives that suit the actual risks to the individual business locations of Risk of reduced crop yields our customers. This move has enabled us to offer weather Agriculture Drought caused by droughts derivatives even in regions where detailed ground-based Solar Power Insufficient Risk of reduced power generation observation data are not available and where underwriting has caused by insufficient sunlight Generation sunlight typically been difficult. Risk of profit loss caused by Power Company Mild winter decreased power demand Story of my CSV Even for areas where reliable ground-based observation data cannot be acquired, we can still provide weather risk products by utilizing satellite observation data. In recognition of the increased interest of our customers in the weather risks that will result from climate change, we are utilizing our weather-related expertise to deliver optimal weather risk solutions to our customers. MSI GuaranteedWeather, LLC Bradley Davis INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 065 Special Feature Creating Shared Value Work toward realization of 4 10％ As of 2015, 10% of the global labor force and their families lived on less than US$1.90 per day, which is defined as the extreme poverty line. “leaving no one behind” Along with breaking the cycle of poverty and providing solutions that lead to economic independence, there is a need for initiatives that improve accessibility to financial services. Microinsurance for the poor Expanding social security has been a major challenge in India. In 2016, the government set out to expand systems for protecting the lives and incomes of farmers during times of poor yield caused by natural catastrophes and droughts, and started a new agricultural insurance scheme with a low premium burden on farmers (PMFBY). Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited (hereafter, Chola MS), a local MSI subsidiary in India, has participated in this scheme since its start. Currently, Chola MS also sells livestock insurance for low-income groups in addition to the PMFBY. Increasing accessibility to financial services: Deployment of the Smart Office Within the vast land of India, penetration of insurance in rural areas is also a challenge. Since October 2015, Chola MS has established small-scale offices (“Smart Offices”) equipped with insurance policy certificate issuing machines in small and medium-sized cities, as well as towns and villages, where the penetration of insurance has been slow compared to large metropolitan areas (390 offices are established as of March 31, 2018). When a customer visits an office, a policy certificate can be issued on the spot. The fact that actual offices are located in familiar locations, such as local marketplaces, garners trust, has led to a steady increase in the number of insurance policies issued. This move has contributed to the penetration of insurance in regions where access to insurance has been inconvenient in the past. Creating employment opportunities in rural areas of India In 2013, Chola MS began contracting out its insurance policy issuing services to an association that tackles job creation in rural areas. This was made for the purpose of creating jobs among women living in rural areas for whom there are few job opportunities other than agriculture. Having undergone continuous training that provides an understanding of insurance products and terminology, approximately 80 staff members are now involved in insurance policy issuing services for automobile and personal medical insurance. This staff has issued approximately 810,000 insurance policies per year. By advancing initiatives that increase motivation, such as presenting gifts to staff who have improved quality to a significant degree, the project has also contributed greatly to improving the skills of women in the workforce. Comments from employees at a rural policy issuing contractor ●I would like say thanks for giving this opportunity for part of the employees in Chola MS. ●Good learning experience and helps us achieve better career growth. 066 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society Special Feature World Map of Natural Catastrophes in 2017*1 In recent years, the effects of climate change have been felt around the world, with powerful typhoons, hurricanes and cyclones, torrential rainfall, drought, heat waves, and other abnormal weather causing damage more frequently and on a larger scale. Last year particularly, three hurricanes in North America and the Caribbean Sea, as well as forest fires in the State of California in the US, caused insured losses exceeding ¥15 trillion, making this the most devastating year in history in terms of natural catastrophes. The MS&AD Insurance Group has helped its customers mitigate economic losses caused by major disasters through the claims payments, supporting the restoration of business activities and the livelihoods of people around the world. Europe USA Non-USA April Frost Damage 4 August to September Hurricane Harvey USA 3 Insured loss* 2 ¥104.2 billion Insured loss* 2 ¥3,361.2 billion MS&AD’s net incurred loss* 3 ¥0 billion MS&AD’s net incurred loss* 3 ¥24.5 billion MS&AD's share* 4 0.0 % MS&AD's share* 4 0.7% USA USA, Caribbean 2 Non-USA Philippines, Japan 5 September Hurricane Irma ¥3,361.2 billion Typhoon Lan (Paolo) Insured loss* 2 October MS&AD’s net incurred loss* 3 ¥36.2 billion ¥99.5 billion Insured loss* 1.1% 2 MS&AD's share* 4 （¥121.6 billion*6） MS&AD’s net incurred loss*5 ¥40.5 billion ！ 40.7% MS&AD's share*4 （33.3 %*7） ！ USA USA ！ USA (Northern California) 4 5 ！ ！ ！ ！ October Wildland Fire ！ Non-USA ！ China, Vietnam, Hong Kong 3 Insured loss*2 ¥1,162.5 billion MS&AD’s net incurred loss*3 ¥25.4 billion August Typhoon Hato MS&AD's share* 4 2.2 % Insured loss*2 ¥124.0 billion MS&AD’s net incurred loss*3 ¥2.3 billion Mexico Non-USA MS&AD's share* 4 1.9 % ！ 2 September Earthquake Insured loss*2 ¥134.4 billion Non-USA MS&AD’s net incurred loss* 3 ¥6.3 billion Australia 1 MS&AD's share*4 4.7% March Cyclone Debbie USA USA, Caribbean Insured loss* 2 ¥146.3 billion 1 MS&AD’s net incurred loss* 3 ¥2.9 billion September Hurricane Maria MS&AD's share* 4 2.0% Insured loss* 2 ¥3,585.3 billion MS&AD’s net incurred loss* 3 ¥21.5 billion MS&AD's share* 4 0.6 % *1 The five most costly insurance market losses in 2017 for the USA (some losses include those from countries along the Caribbean Sea coast) and the five most costly insurance market losses outside of the USA (Non-USA) from natural catastrophes according to Swiss Re's sigma No 1/2018 “Natural catastrophes and man-made disasters in 2017: a year of record-breaking losses” *2 Insured Loss: Estimated amount of insurance market loss covered by non-life insurance companies around the world (source: Swiss Re's sigma No 1/2018). Exchange rate: US1$=¥112.04 (used for internal purposes in FY2018). *3 As of December 31, 2017. Total net incurred loss (claims paid + outstanding claims, reflects recoverable and anticipated recoverable amounts from outward reinsurance contracts) by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance and their overseas subsidiaries. Excludes claims less than ¥50 million at entities outside the affected countries. *4 Ratio of total net incurred loss of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance and their overseas subsidiaries to the insured loss. *5 As of March 31, 2018. Total net incurred loss of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance. *6 As of March 31, 2018. Insurance claims paid in Japan (includes estimates) (Source: The General Insurance Association of Japan). *7 Ratio of total incurred losses by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance to *6 above. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 067 Special Feature Dialogue with Our Stakeholders Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society: New Medium-Term Management Plan “Vision 2021” Nissay Asset Management Corporation Director, Chief Corporate Governance Officer CSO Network Japan Vice President, General Manager of the Equity Investment President & CEO Executive Director CFO Department (investment research) Shiro Fujii George Iguchi Kaori Kuroda Yasuyoshi Karasawa In FY2018, the MS&AD Insurance Group launched the medium-term management plan “Vision 2021.” In the plan, we set a resilient and sustainable society to realize by 2030, and we intend to make it happen by continuing to create shared value with stakeholders. To gain stakeholders’ insight, we invited two professionals for a discussion to get feedback for “Vision 2021.” We spoke with George Iguchi of Nissay Asset Management Corporation, an industry leader in promoting ESG investment, who serves as a committee member for the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Study Group on Investment for Sustainable Value Creation, and Kaori Kuroda of CSO Network Japan, an organization that promotes initiatives to achieve the SDGs, who serves as a committee member for the Cabinet Office SDGs Promotion Round Table Meetings. Karasawa: We introduced a resilient and sustainable business and social contribution activities towards providing society as an image of future society we are aiming to solutions to the challenges faced by society along the same realize in the plan. Based on the story of value creation direction and through the same strategy. we established in the previous medium-term management plan, we will make further advances in Iguchi: Investors are not only interested in balance sheets pursuing our group’s mission, vision and values by utilizing or other charts and figures, but must discover how the SDGs as guideposts. company achieved these figures and what lies behind Please tell us about your opinions and impressions them. For example, when we hear an earnings increase, regarding this direction for the Group. we verify factors involved with the increase as well as its sustainability. If the factors are short-term, then an impact Kuroda: We are now in an era of growing uncertainty. With on stock price is small, but if it is long-term, we can see a the frequent occurrence of unusual weather, Brexit, and factor only when we connect financial performance with the rise of protectionism, the resulting political friction, non-financial aspects, such as customer satisfaction, severe refugee problems, and the security environment are relationship with society, and employee motivation. In this also very unstable. Given this situation, it is likely that the respect, I think that MS&AD’s KPI Tree*, which displays role of insurance will continue to gain in importance. The both financial and non-financial indicators and initiatives, is special feature in the an extremely good example. MS&AD is probably the only previous MS&AD company in the financial industry that has made this kind Integrated Report of KPI breakdown. introduced a couple of business cases as a story Fujii: Because the Group was formed from several of value creation, companies, I think it has been important for us to cultivate including risk surveys for a sense of unity using our story of value creation as a ensuring safety at common thread. As with Mr. Karasawa, the management factories in Thailand, an class talks about the story of value creation during every initiative for telematics opportunity, and we distribute pamphlets and have taken technology-based driving other initiatives in order to explain the relationship between safety, and training to the SDGs and day-to-day business activities so that our reduce accidents. What employees can recognize the value of working for the impressed me was that Group. We also conduct employee surveys to grasp the MS&AD is deploying both degree to which these ideas have penetrated the company its core insurance and make reports to the Board of Directors, for example. *See “KPI and Specific Initiatives to Achieve Group Adjusted Profit Target 068 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS and Sustainable Growth” on P. 43. CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Aiming for a Resilient and Sustainable Society Kuroda: In the case of some European companies, labor shortages has arisen amid Japan's declining outside-in approaches have been taken where these population, but the only solution is to increase companies create opportunities to link major global productivity. Another one of our goals is innovation. challenges to their businesses, and utilize the SDGs as Innovation only comes about when work is undertaken a tool to advance the initiatives of each individual with a margin of freedom. So it is important to cultivate a employee. Meanwhile, other companies have culture in which employees can be active and work reevaluated routine tasks using the SDGs' philosophy as creatively. one of their benchmarks. MS&AD’s initiatives seem to take a similar approach. Kuroda: I also think it is important to communicate to clarify the reasons for work style reforms, empowering Iguchi: Investors are also keen to know the way in which women at work, and respecting diversity. In terms of the this concept is being instilled in the mind of employees. labor productivity and innovation you mentioned, human In last year's MS&AD Integrated Report, employees from assets development likely holds an important key. countries around the world talked about how Fujii: Finally, we would like to have your views or they practiced value comments for the Group management plan “Vision creation. The KPI Tree 2021.” also listed the number of employees participating in social Iguchi: From an investor's perspective, I think that the contribution activities. relationships between corporate management What MS&AD designs strategies, numerical targets, and ESG initiatives are as linkage of these inseparable, so I support the direction taken by the figures and financial medium-term management plan with its basis in the figures is very unique concept of CSV. Listening to what you have said, I feel among Japanese that MS&AD’s various initiatives for working towards the companies. creation of shared value, and having the Board of Directors monitor and discuss these initiatives, are Kuroda: International research has publicized data ahead of their time. Going forward, I believe that informing investors of these initiatives will increase showing the positive correlation between social MS&AD’s value in terms of credibility and transparency. contribution activities and the sense of belonging and loyalty to one's company among the employees. I like the fact that MS&AD has released such information. Kuroda: I highly respect MS&AD’s various social contribution activities, including its contribution to the Iguchi: I think it is also extremely important that MS&AD development of local communities and its holding of seminars related to ESG... Such social contribution shares the results of employee satisfaction surveys with activities can also connect to business in the future its outside directors and receives feedback. Such action when seen from a long-term perspective. I expect that gives rise to feelings of trust in the company, and advancing a best mix of existing core business and conveys the company's seriousness. In regard to the social contribution activities, which might one day recent topic of work-style reform, having a thorough become core business activities, will perfectly match the conversation about the reasons why work-style reform is CSV concept being prioritized here. I also respect the necessary is first and foremost. Although the fact that MS&AD places importance on this kind of background and goals for the reform might vary for each dialogue and collaboration with its stakeholders. The company, simply stating that the company will reduce SDGs used as guideposts for Vision 2021 are emerging overtime is not enough. Rather, I feel that it is necessary as a common theme and common language that to clarify company’s goals for the reform and build a supersedes national borders and business sectors, so I framework to make it happen. hope MS&AD continues to further strengthen cooperation with its many stakeholders as a means of Karasawa: One of the goals of the Group's work-style solving the challenges faced by society. reforms is to improve labor productivity. The issue of INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 069 ERM ERM and Risk Management The MS&AD Insurance Group formulates management plans in accordance with the Group Risk Appetite Statement with the aim of improving profitability and enhancing capital efficiency while ensuring soundness based on the ERM cycle. Capital is allocated in accordance with the ERM cycle and the risks assumed, and by monitoring return on risk (ROR) for the risks assumed, we take steps to strengthen our risk controls and underwriting. ERM Cycle ERM is implemented through planning, execution and monitoring phases. Planning 1. Formulate strategies based on the Group Risk phase Planning Appetite Statement, and establish capital allocation phase amounts based on the level of assumable risk. Execution 2. Take risks within the risk limits based on capital phase allocation amounts. 3. Conduct regular monitoring of financial soundMonitoring ness, profitability and capital efficiency. Monitoring Execution phase 4. Based on the outcome of monitoring, examine phase phase and implement any necessary measures. Initiatives to Improve ROR Trends in return on risk (ROR), which are an indicator of the profits that can be earned on risks assumed, are a proxy for the earnings power of the Group’s risk portfolio. The MS&AD Insurance Group aims to continue improving ROR by setting targets for ROR in each business domain, periodically checking ROR and taking initiatives to improve ROR. Although each business domain has performed differently, Groupwide ROR*1 has been on a steady uptrend. Analyze and manage ROR by line of business and product Improve Manage budgets based on expected values Implement growth strategies based on the medium-term management plan Implement and continue measures to improve lines ROR of business with low ROR Diversify the portfolio, including business investments Reinforce controls on natural disaster risks Set fiscal year targets for each business domain Allocate capital with consideration paid to （％） ROR by business domain ROR and other factors 25％ Entire Group Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Domestic Life Insurance Business*2 International Business 20％ 15％ 10％ 5％ 0％ -5％ -20％ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY-end) (Forecast) (Outlook) (Outlook) 1. ROR = Group Adjusted Profit / integrated risk amount 2. Within domestic life insurance, return is calculated as the amount of increase in EEV at Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance. The return of the entire Group is calculated using the Group Adjusted Profit of Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance. 070 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Control of Risk Group Emerging Risks Group Emerging Risks are defined as 1) events that The MS&AD Group has established the MS&AD could affect the Group business from a mediumto Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy, which longer-term perspective and 2) events that could affect underpins the common risk management exercised the Group business that management should be throughout the Group. Specifically, the policy identifies aware of but are difficult to measure in terms of scale the principal types of risk with an impact on the Group’s and timing. By quickly grasping when such risks rise, we business portfolio, stipulates how risk factors are to be can take specific steps to address them with an eye on the evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively, and future. Group Emerging Risks are viewed as not only promotes risk management based on those evaluations. threats but also potential business opportunities for More information on the Group’s risk management solving environmental and social issues. Group Emerging systems is posted on the Group’s official Web site. Risks are reflected in developing products and services and formulating management strategies. Please refer to the Group's official website for more risk management information. Examples of Website Content Initiatives ● Risk management (https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/company/value/erm/risk.html) ● Risk management basic policy ● Risk management structure ● Insurance business risks 1. Declining Birthrate and Aging Population ● Risk management in the international business The domestic insurance market is anticipated to ● Crisis management system contract, but growth in the elderly population and (including the Business Continuity Management System) longer life spans have created new needs for insurance. The Group is creating new markets by Specifying Risks researching and developing insurance products, such as “Tontine Annuities,” while addressing the increasing Group Material Risks (FY2018) frequency of car accidents caused by elderly drivers by offering new insurance products that utilize telematics The Group specifies material risks to be controlled by technology. In addition, we are strengthening our management and formulates a Management Action Plan international business and moving forward with reforms as well as regularly monitors the status with respect to to our business portfolio. individual risk to maintain a focus on the potential impact of those risks on the Group. 1. Occurrence of a large-scale natural disaster in Japan or overseas 2. Climate Change 2. Sharp fluctuations in financial markets in Japan or The occurrence of unprecedentedly large natural overseas disasters has led to considerable amounts of 3. Increase in credit risk and nonperforming loans insurance payments. The Group maintains adequate 4. Occurrence of behavior that loses interest for financial soundness by refining its natural disaster customers or behavior that violates laws and regulations risk analysis model, conducting stress tests and and is detrimental to the corporate value of the Group arranging reinsurance protections. In addition, we 5. Occurrence of cyberattacks that cause large-scale and support the promotion of renewable energy with risk serious impediments to operations, information leaks, solutions and insurance to mitigate climate change. the payment of insurance, and frequent occurrence of large-scale leaks and illicit use of personal information As a measure to address climate change, we provide and confidential information risk assessment and consulting services to mitigate 6. Frequent occurrence of IT system failures and the customers’ losses, and in 2018 we started occurrence of critical IT system failures collaborative research on future disaster risk 7. Pandemic of a new highly toxic strain of influenza prediction based on climate change with the University of Tokyo and the Shibaura Institute of 8. Occurrence of a serious labor problem (e.g., long working hours, harassment), loss of social credibility Technology. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 071 ERM We aim to advance ERM to address the emergence of new accumulation risks, such as the risk of multiple natural disasters and cyberattacks. Senior Executive Officer, CRO Fumiaki Ohkawabata Strengthening Natural Disaster Risk Management In 2017, a number of natural disasters struck, including several massive hurricanes and widespread wildfires in North America, resulting in the largest amount of insured losses in the history of the non-life insurance industry. The MS&AD Insurance Group has built a system able to ensure the soundness of the entire Group by performing stress tests versus large-scale insured losses caused by earthquakes, windstorms and floods in Japan, as well as hurricanes in the United States, while securing the necessary capital based on event probability of once in 200 years to calculate estimated loss amounts. In FY2017, the Group was able to reliably sustain operations while maintaining a proper level of financial soundness. Recently, however, major hurricanes, typhoons and heavy snowfalls like those seen in FY2017 have occurred with greater frequency, increasing the scale and frequency of natural disasters. Under these circumstances, the Group intends to advance the level of its natural disaster risk management by refining methods for measuring risks related to windstorms, floods and heavy snow in Japan, as well as windstorms and floods in the United States, enhancing stress tests, and promoting research and assessments of natural disaster risks in Asia. Controlling the Retained Amount of Natural Disaster Risk In FY2017, although our financial soundness was not affected, the Group’s fiscal year earnings were severely affected by large-scale losses caused by natural disasters. Accordingly, we redoubled our efforts to control the retained amount of risk for natural disasters. Specifically, we 1) strengthened Group management of risks related to windstorms, floods and heavy snow in Japan and windstorms and floods in the United States; 2) began monitoring the amount of risk with reoccurrence intervals of 10 years; and 3) our two Group domestic non-life insurance companies jointly issued catastrophe bonds to cover the domestic risks of windstorms and floods. Outline of the Catastrophe Bond “Akibare Re 2018-1” At the time of issuance At the time of Institutional Class A Notes Class B Notes a qualifying investors event Sponsor Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Issuance of Reduced or notes Proceeds Covered Event of typhoons, lost principal Event of typhoons floods and earthquake event and floods in Japan fire expenses in Japan Akibare Re Ltd. Issuance size USD 220 million USD 100 million Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Risk spread 1.9% per annum claims payment premium claims payment Issuer Akibare Re Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Nissay Dowa Risk period Four years (from March 31, 2018, to March 31, 2022) Insurance Insurance Strengthening Management of Cyber Risks (Underwriting Risk) The threat of cyber risks has grown rapidly in the past few years alongside advances in digital technology and the proliferation of products that use this technology. Multiple cyber risks can emerge simultaneously around the world, making it imperative that we strengthen our accumulation management of insurance underwriting risk that covers damages caused by cyberattacks. The Group has to date viewed information leaks caused by cyberattacks as a material risk for the Group. From FY2018, the Group is reinforcing its accumulation risk management system by adding the risk of insurance payments due to cyberattacks and assessing the scale of cyber risk through stress testing. 072 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation ERM Promotion of Compliance Positioning compliance as a top Group management priority, the MS&AD Insurance Group requires that all its officers and employees rigorously comply with all laws and regulations related to business activities. Mechanism to Ensure the Effectiveness Initiatives for Anti-Money Laundering and of Rules and Systems Countering the Financing of Terrorism Fair Operating Practices The MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy is shared across the entire Group as the basis for our Group companies take steps to prevent the use of their approach to compliance. The Compliance Program is a products and services from being used in money companywide plan of action for compliance that was laundering and the financing of terrorism, and pursue Fair approved by the Board of Directors of each group Operating Practices including the “prevention of company. Status updates and issues that need to be corruption including bribes” and “compliance with laws addressed for the action plan are reported to the and regulations regarding political activities and political Compliance Committees and Board of Directors of each funds.” Given tighter regulations overseas, we are Group company. strengthening related initiatives at overseas entities, The Quality Improvement and Compliance including the updating of necessary systems and training Committee was formed to improve quality across the based on compliance manuals used at overseas entities. Group, ensuring thorough compliance and the monitoring of established corporate ethics. Please see our official website for more information on Important matters are reported to the Board of compliance. Directors. Compliance https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/company/value/compliance.html ● Compliance Basic Policy Initiatives to Protect Customer Information ● Compliance promotion structure ● Activities (Compliance Program, Compliance Manual, Based on the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for compliance-related training, compliance-related Management of Customer Information, internal rules have inspection, monitoring activities and Speak-up system (internal reporting system) been created for the proper acquisition, use and storage ● Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of of customer information, while related security measures Terrorism have been implemented with employee training and ● Prevention of Corruption and Bribery internal inspections as well. Our personal information ● Compliance promotion structure in the International protection policy is published on the official website as Business ● Tax compliance efforts (basic approach to taxation) the MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc., Declaration of Personal Information Protection (Privacy Policy). Group Information Security companies are prepared to take appropriate courses of http://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/company/value/information.html action in the event of an information leak or other ● Basic View and Policy incident and have created measures to respond rapidly to ● Structure of Information Security Management and Monitoring Activities incidents and prevent their reoccurrence. ● Declaration of Personal Information Protection (Privacy Policy) TOPICS Response to Global Regulations for Personal Information Protection As companies around the world share information about of the regulations. For this reason, MS&AD Insurance Group individuals amid increasing globalization, governments have Holdings put together a project to examine how the entire moved to strengthen regulations that protect individual rights. Group should respond. We are striving for proper One example is the General Data Protection Regulation management by putting into place a global management (GDPR) that was enacted by the European Union in May structure, forging agreements within the Group on how to 2018. Japanese companies are also subject to the GDPR, transfer data and setting rules for handling data at exposing them to high financial penalties if found in violation subsidiaries in Japan and around the world. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 073 Human Asset Development and Quality Improvement Promoting Diversity in Human Assets Under its medium-term management plan “Vision 2021,” the MS&AD Insurance Group is positioning initiatives for the creation of management platforms that enable employees to play active roles as the support for putting into practice of stories of value creation. At the same time, the Group is working on human asset* training and diversity & inclusion as sources of the Group's comprehensive strength. * With the idea that each and every member of the MS&AD Insurance Group is valued, we used the term “human assets” instead of “human resources.” Diversity & Inclusion To enhance the Group's comprehensive strength, under the executive officer in charge of diversity & inclusion, we work to create the management platforms, so that employees with various backgrounds, individuality and a sense of values are able to maximize their abilities and actively demonstrate those abilities. Promoting the career development of women The Group actively promotes women, and with 613 women in management positions and a ratio of female managers Overseas employees participating in a program in Japan. now at 9.9%,* their numbers are steadily increasing each year. To foster female managers we are holding training sessions and seminars on an ongoing basis and working to Employment of people with disabilities improve their leadership skills and awareness of career In June 2018, we established a subsidiary, MS&AD advancement. In addition, each Group company will ABILITYWORKS Co., Ltd., to promote the employment continue to provide environments in which women are able and active participation of people with disabilities. to continue to work and actively participate after and Group companies are also promoting the hiring of during life events, such as childbirth and child rearing. para-athletes (sports athletes with disabilities) and * The five domestic Group insurance companies + the holding company (as of April 2018) providing support for their activities as athletes. Total number and ratio of domestic employees* Promoting career development of global human assets with disabilities in fiscal 2017 Possessing a network covering 47 countries and regions, Ratio of domestic employees Number of employees the Group employees at its overseas bases number with disabilities with disabilities approximately 9,000 people. To train specialists equipped 2.37％ ✓ 719 ✓ with an abundance of cosmopolitan sense and expertise, * The five domestic Group insurance companies + the holding company the Group has created systems to promote mutual (as of June 2018) exchanges between Japan and its various locations The ✓ symbol for fiscal 2017 figures indicates a third-party assurance from KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. throughout the world. Systems Content TOPICS System for ・ Training system for studying international business training skills, languages, etc., at overseas subsidiaries, local Employee Satisfaction overseas insurance companies and universities To connect the power of diverse employees to the Group’s comprehensive Secondment ・ Secondment system to obtain MBA strength centered on the Group’s Mission, Vision, and Values, we are system No. of employees who participated in system in fiscal 2017: 55 conducting awareness surveys of all Group employees. Headquarters employees are given work experience at Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 overseas bases, and employees of overseas bases can gain Indicator Global trainee Score* Target Score* work experience in Japan for short periods. system No. of employees who participated in system in fiscal 2017: Employee Same or 67 headquarters employees and 51 overseas employees. satisfaction Level of pride or 4.4 higher level 4.4 compared (pride, job job satisfaction points with previous points A system for temporarily posting overseas local satisfaction) fiscal year Headquarters employees to the headquarters in Japan. postings for A total of 78 overseas local employees had engaged Employee Same or overseas base Level of feeling free in business at the Group’s headquarters in Japan up satisfaction 4.2 higher level 4.3 local employees and lively at workplaces compared to and including fiscal 2017. (working regardless of gender points with previous points vigorously) and age fiscal year * All-employee average on a six-point scale 074 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Promoting Diversity & Inclusion, Building a Solid Foundation to Generate Innovation As we promote Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) throughout the environment in which a Group, each Group company takes joint ownership of diverse range of employees initiatives and works to provide mutual encouragement. can express their own Although we have endeavored thus far at individual Group opinions under their own companies to establish environments in which employees initiative and a corporate can continue to work and participate, going forward we will culture in which everyone can strive for greater heights by leveraging the diversity of the state their objections without Group. fear. It is my firm belief that Eliminating unconscious bias is also important. We this type of environment will must recognize our preconceived notions, such as the belief serve as a foundation for that demanding work is men's work, and consciously generating innovation and change our behavior. Women with the preconceived notion will help the Group to grow. Naomi Motojima that managerial positions are demanding tend to hesitate D&I is not a matter that is to Executive Officer in charge of when offered the opportunity for promotions, but serving as be advanced solely by the Diversity & Inclusion leaders of small projects, for example, to gain experience in HR Department. Instead, it is decision-making ought to lower the psychological barriers something that we will labor, contemplate, and act on for women when accepting managerial positions. together so that every department throughout the Group The most important aspects are, however, an can undertake this challenge as their own. Human Asset Development Work-Style Reform and Health Management Envisioning ideal employees as those “who learn and To enable our diverse employees to continue working while think by themselves, take up challenges and continue to responding flexibly to life events, we are promoting grow,” the MS&AD Insurance Group educates and “Work-Style Reform” that will be beneficial to health, make supports its staff through measures such as training, OJT working easier and increase the sense of job satisfaction as and self-education programs. well as enhance productivity. We are working on improving the workplace environment and installing systems that allow Groupwide human asset development employees to work flexibly, such as by deploying thin-client While conducting collective training sessions that are shared by PCs so that they can work from home. the Group, human asset exchanges within the Group, and an We will also encourage employees to take allotted time exchange training system (trainee system), we are working on off and promote self-development during the created time. improving the skills of our human assets throughout the Group. Days of paid vacation *Average number of vacation used per employee/year* (Day) days acquired by all Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 employees with respect to “regular/carryover vacation 15.7 15.7 16.0 days” as well as “special vacation days” Such initiatives received high praise ● Awards for Enterprises and Workplaces Fiscal 2018 Collective training session for newly hired employees from with Pleasant Working Environments and eight group companies High Productivity, “Highest award (Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award”) Development of professional human assets (Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance [MSI]) ● 10th Work Life Balance Awards (First prize) To respond to changes in the social structure, such as (Organizer: Japan Productivity Center, Work-Life Balance advances in digitalization and exposure to new risks, we Promotion Council) are systematically cultivating human assets with specialized (Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance [ADI]) skills and those capable of excelling on the world stage. ● Certified as an Excellent Enterprise of Health and ProductivFiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 ity Management under the large enterprise category (White 500) (Holding company, MSI, ADI) Number of actuaries* 86 94 100 * Number of professional actuaries employed by the MS&AD Group with specialized skills for making full use of probability, statistical and other mathematical techniques used in product development, risk management, and other processes (as of April 1 of the subsequent fiscal year). INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 075 Quality That Earns the Trust of Society As an initiative to support the creation of shared value, the MS&AD Insurance Group will ensure quality that earns the trust of society based on its communications with its stakeholders. Quality Improvements through Communications with Stakeholders Establishing mechanisms and providing opportunities to listen to the opinions of its customers and other stakeholders, the Group analyzes and examines the information it obtains. In addition to improving the quality of its products and services, the Group also makes use of the information in initiatives relating to, for example, compliance, respect for human rights and the environment. ● Customer surveys ● コンタク Contactトセンター Center Realizing management philosophy (Mission) ● Website Customers ● Communication with agents/employees (inquiries, advice, requests, complaints, etc.) ● IR meetings Resilient and sustainable society ● Information meeting for investors Shareholders ● One-on-one meeting Communication with Stakeholders ● Survey at Annual Shareholders Meeting ● Meetings for personnel in charge Creating shared value ● Agent meetings Agents ● Product monitoring system ● Posting system Quality improvements Business Improvements (products, services, ● Communication with outsourcing contractors Partners Understanding, analysis and Quality That Earns ● Questionnaire for employees ● Communication with management Employees ● Posting system Sound organizational management ● Speak up system Local ● Collaboration agreements with local governments the Trust of Society business processes) examination of content Communities ● Communication with NPOs/NGOs ● Communication/exchanges with local communities International ● Holding of seminars/symposiums Society Respect for human rights ● Communication with experts and NPOs/NGOs The ● Studies on global environment and natural disasters Environment ● Participation in initiatives and international conferences Customer-First Business Operations To continue growing as a company that customers choose based on trust, the Group strives to further promote business operations on a customer-first basis by treating each customer individually. The six domestic insurance companies in the Group* formulated their “customer-first policy in the operation of their businesses” and released details together with status reports of specific initiatives for fiscal 2017. Having as a Group reviewed the KPIs relating to sustainability in accordance with the medium-term management plan “Vision 2021,” from fiscal 2018 we have set customer satisfaction levels based on questionnaires at the time of the insurance contract procedure or the claim payment as one of the KPIs. * For details on policies and activities, please see the official websites for each company. MSI, ADI, Mitsui Direct General, MSI Aioi Life, MSI Primary Life, au Insurance TOPICS The Group’s domestic insurance companies specify a period every year for all employees to look back on quality improvement and have employees confirm the importance of the customer-first policy at workplace meetings and other venues, thereby providing opportunities for them to think about putting the policy into practice in the course of their daily tasks. (Left): Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance workplace meeting tools (Right): Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance display booth for employees 076 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Having adopted the “strengthening of Group governance” as one of the four drivers of implementation in its basic strategy for Next Challenge 2017, the previous medium-term management plan, the MS&AD Insurance Group took a number of initiatives that included the improvement of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness. The focus of our coverage includes an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and a status report on the efforts geared toward improving its operations. In aiming to promote the Group’s sustainable growth and increase its corporate value, we will conduct transparent, fair, swift and decisive decision-making processes and, under the medium-term management plan “Vision 2021,” will also work to strengthen our corporate governance system. For our basic approach and an overview of our corporate governance structure, please visit our official website: https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/ company/value/corporate.html Director/Audit & Supervisory Board Member Composition (as at July 1, 2018) Ratio of Outside Directors Ratio of Females Outside Outside Female Female 42% 50% 17% 50% Audit & Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Directors Board Directors Board Members Members Inside Inside Male Male 58% 50% 83% 50% Changes in Outside Director Composition (as at July 1, 2018: compared with July 1, 2010) Ratio of Outside Directors Increased Ratio of Outside Directors 2010 2018 31% 42% (Four out of 13) (Five out of 12) Ratio of Female Outside Directors Increased Ratio 2010 2018 of Females 0% 40% (None out of four) (Two out of five) Selection Process for Newly Appointed Outside Director Candidates At the 10th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, which was held on June 25, 2018, three new outside directors (Mr. Akira Arima, Mr. Kazuhito Ikeo, and Mr. Junichi Tobimatsu) were appointed. The process leading up to this appointment is as follows. September 2016 Nomination Committee meeting* ● Decision taken to proceed with nomination of, for example, “an executive (or experienced person) knowledgeable Fiscal 2016 about international business” or “a non-Japanese national knowledgeable about Japanese companies,” taking diversity into consideration. In addition to the candidate list up to fiscal 2016, we drew up a candidate list that included recommendations from outside directors. September 2017 Nomination Committee meeting ● With the goal of them being appointed at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2018, decision taken to proceed with selection from the viewpoints of expertise and diversity, with (1) an executive (or experienced person) knowledgeable about international business; (2) a person of learning or experience; (3) an attorney at law or; Fiscal 2017 (4) a non-Japanese national knowledgeable about Japanese companies regarded as ideal candidates. December 2017 Nomination Committee meeting ● Based on candidates’ backgrounds and other factors, we selected the final candidates February 2018 Nomination Committee meeting ● We tentatively decided on the final candidates and, after a resolution of the Board of Directors, announced them on March 1. * Composed of all outside directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President & CEO. The chairperson is an outside director (as at July 1, 2018, director Ms. Mari Matsunaga) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 077 Director evaluations Outline of the Analysis and Evaluation Discussion Content and Functions at the Board of Directors • Held discussions focusing on notable technological innovations while formulating the new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021.” • While maintaining focus on future changes in the operating environment, actively promoted new business investment to achieve medium-term plan targets. Points of • Reduced number of annual agenda items while increasing time devoted to key proposals relating to strategic decisions. improvement • Entrenched operations quickly providing information on new risk-taking projects such as overseas investment projects. • Promoted the “story of value creation” both within and outside the Group, which illustrates how the daily activities of our employees contributed to the realization of the Group's mission. • Achieved progress in sustainability (CSR) initiatives, including assessments provided by external ESG evaluation organizations. • Given the pace of change in both the environment and technological innovations, there needs to be deeper discussions on how to adapt to a changing operating environment to achieve Vision 2021 goals. Points requiring • Management needs to deepen among all employees an understanding of the significance of the Group's sustainability further initiatives, the “story of value creation”, the corporate mission, and the Group's contribution to SDGs by providing a clear reinforcement explanation of the medium-term management plan “Vision 2021.” moving forward • There needs to be greater awareness of the system for letting internal and external voices be heard, including the internal reporting system. The Group needs to create an environment in which employees feel free to speak up and be frank in expressing their concerns. Board of Directors Management Points of • There has been an increase each year in the average amount of time spent discussing each agenda item at regularly improvement scheduled meetings. • Notable progress in the use of visualization, including the use of a graph for agenda items, as well as efforts to reduce page count. Points requiring further • The Board of Directors needs to be provided with a clear explanation of items covered in past meetings, particularly to new reinforcement external members. moving forward • Explanations of agenda items for the Board of Directors need to be narrowed down to the most concise points. Other (information and training for Outside Directors) Expanded opportunities for training and the distribution of information Points of • Conducted four study sessions on themes requested by Outside Directors in fiscal 2017 improvement • Conducted tours of operating companies Analysis and evaluation process Executing and Compiling the Results of the Director Self-Evaluation Survey ● Interview conducted by the secretariat ● With an eye toward the PDCA cycle, the survey focused on whether measures for functional improvement in the 2016 Directors’ evaluation were implemented. Exchange of Opinions at the Outside Directors Council ● The exchange of opinions at the Outside Directors Council addressed an analysis and assessment based on the survey results Compilation at the Governance Committee ● The Governance Committee, composed of all Outside Directors, the Chairman of the Board, and the President & CEO, conducts analysis and evaluation, followed by the compilation of a functional improvement plan aimed at further strengthening governance in fiscal 2018. Implementing Functional Improvement Measures Based on the Results 078 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Efforts aimed at improving the operation of the Board of Directors Trends in the number of agenda items (Items) No. of agenda items No. of resolutions 200 189 ● Thanks to the January 2015 introduction of the so-called package deliberation system simplifying the explanation for 164 153 151 some items up for discussion, the January 2016 expansion of 150 105 items applicable to the package deliberation system, and the 97 82 April 2016 revision to item selection standards for the Board of 100 94 Directors, there has been, with the exclusion of package deliberation items, a decline each year in the number of items 50 discussed at Board of Directors meetings. 84 67 59 69 ● This has largely been in line with the initial aim of increasing the 0 amount of time devoted to key proposals relating to strategic decisions. 2014 2015 2016 2017（FY) a. No. of agenda items with concerns expressed Trends in the number of agenda items where concerns were （％） b. No. of agenda items with preliminary questions and discussions taking place at group companies expressed and the number of agenda items with preliminary 50 c. No. of agenda items that fall into either categories a or b questions and discussions taking place at group companies 40 47 40 37 ● The Company in 2014 began implementing measures allowing 31 35 the questions and opinions of Outside Directors prior to the 30 29 30 24 meeting as well as content from group management meetings 20 and operating company management meetings to be aired at 20 23 22 the Board of Directors’ meetings. 19 10 ● The ratio of agenda items where either concerns were expressed or preliminary questions were aired moved from 29% 0 in fiscal 2014 to 40% in fiscal 2016 and 47% in fiscal 2017. 2014 2015 2016 2017（FY) Amount of time spent per agenda item (minutes) (Minute) （％） Percentage rate of increase with fiscal 2014 as a base of 100 Trends in the average amount of time spent per 10 200 agenda item at regularly scheduled Board meetings 8 180 ● The average amount of time spent per agenda item at regularly scheduled Board meetings has continued to increase 6 160 with each passing year (excluding so-called package delibera4 135.0％ 140 tion items.) 2 112.1％ 120 104.2％ 0 100 2014 2015 2016 2017（FY) Implementation of meetings, study sessions, and visits including Outside Directors In addition to Board of Directors’ study sessions, the Company Conducted operating company visits in fiscal 2017. Date Name Content May 2017 Outside Executives Study Group • Next medium-term management plan, other topics Joint Council of Outside July 2017 Directors and Audit & • Stress scenario and group impact (major earthquake, deterioration in the US Supervisory Board Members economy), other topics October 2017 Visit to Operating • Visit to domestic group insurance companies Company (sales and claim services divisions) • Changing work-styles and operations in the sales and claim services divisions, October 2017 Outside Directors Council and the outlook moving forward • Changes and issues in the internal auditing division moving forward Visit to the project site • Visit to elementary school where overseas group company is involved in CSR activities November 2017 of the Paliyan Wildlife • Visit to area undergoing afforestation Sanctuaries in Indonesia • Commemorative tree planting November 2017 Group Executives Seminar • Discussion led by external instructor of the evolution of the automobile and the connected car society Outside Executives • Current conditions and issues for the group’s internal reporting system (MS&AD December 2017 Study Group Helpline) February 2018 Outside Executives Study Group • Exchanging opinions with and receiving information from accounting auditors March 2018 Outside Executives Study Group • Survey of employee attitudes, other topics INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 079 Strategies for functional improvements in fiscal 2018 Theme Strategies for functional improvements in fiscal 2018 (key points) Deliberations on management • The unusually rapid pace of technological change, including the introduction of autonomous driving plans and strategies, vehicles and the electrification in vehicles, makes it necessary for the Group to discuss in-depth how to deal with the changing operating environment. These discussions would include Outside Director commitment to the Council and focus on topics such as how loss ratios might change and what the corresponding impact medium-term management plan on the Group would be. Deliberations on risk-taking • In regard to risk-taking projects, we will strive at Executive Study Group to better understand trends in projects competing and related businesses (non-life insurance, life insurance or banking). Supervising the promotion and practice of the company’s • We will deepen among all employees an understanding of the significance of the Group's initiatives, the “the story of value creation ”, the corporate mission and the Group's contribution to SDGs by providing a code of conduct and clear explanation of the medium-term management plan “Vision 2021”. management philosophy Appropriate cooperation with non-shareholder stakeholders • We are working to improve environment which enables employees to speak up in frank and positive manner about their questions and concerns by establishing a so-called “speak up” system as part of the (ensuring the voices of those inside internal reporting system to receive input from all our employees. and outside the company are heard) Report on the issues • Given the importance of measures aimed at promoting and entrenching the understanding and regarding ESG significance of new terms such as “sustainability”, “SDGs” and “CSV” (creating shared value) among all (Environment, Society and employees, we are employing a variety of communicative methods, including executive messages, Governance) training sessions, integrated reports, and media releases. • We are focused on a thorough explanation of agenda items for the Board of Directors for the sake of Management of the Board of clarification and simplification. Directors • In particular, Board of Director management is aimed at encouraging remarks from the Chairman on important items up for discussion. • We will establish themes for Outside Executives Study Groups based on requests from the Outside Others (providing ongoing Executives. training opportunities for • We will continue to create opportunities to visit operating company sites in fiscal 2018. executives, etc.) • We will identify and discuss measures for future consideration based on the June 2018 revisions to Japan's Corporate Governance Code. Directors’ and Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Remuneration Remuneration Breakdown Remuneration for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) consists of fixed remuneration and performance-based remuneration. a．Fixed remuneration (monetary remuneration): about 70% b．Performance-based remuneration: about 30%, consisting of the following (a) Portion linked to company performance based on an index of Group Core Profit, consolidated net income, etc. (i) Stock options as stock-based compensation system (ii) Monetary remuneration (b) Portion linked to individual performance Because the Outside Directors are in a position independent from the execution of business, remuneration is limited to fixed (monetary) remuneration. Total Amount of Remuneration (FY2017) Persons with Consolidated Remuneration (including remuneration for Remuneration by Category and the Number of Recipients corporate officer posts at main subsidiaries, etc.) of ¥100 million or more Total Amount of Remuneration Total Amount of Remuneration Total by Category Total by Category Remuneration Remuneration Basic Stock Option Basic Stock Option Director ¥199 million ¥188 million ¥10 million Yasuyoshi Karasawa ¥103 million ¥95 million ¥7 million Directors (8*) Audit & Supervisory Director Board Members (3*) ¥51 million ¥51 million ¥103 million ¥95 million ¥7 million Noriyuki Hara Outside Directors/ Audit & Supervisory ¥70 million ¥70 million ● Given the enhanced responsibilities expected of Outside Board Members (9) Directors in line with the aim to bolster corporate governance and * Excluding Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. the increase of one Outside Director in fiscal 2017, the company on June 25, 2018, decided to lift annual remuneration for Outside Directors from ¥60 million or less to ¥100 million or less. 080 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Corporate Governance Introduction to Directors (As of June 25, 2018, except for the number of Company shares owned, which is as of the end of March 2018) Directors Number of Company shares owned Number of Company shares owned 36,970 25,200 Important concurrent positions Important concurrent positions Director & Vice Chairman, ADI Director, Chairman of the Board, MSI Biography Biography April 1973 Entered Dai-Tokyo Fire and Marine April 1975 Entered The Sumitomo Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. Hisahito Suzuki Has business experience in sales, corporate planning, Yasuyoshi Karasawa Has business experience in corporate planning, sales, merger preparation, life insurance business, etc. corporate communications, financial planning, etc. Representative Director Present position since June 2014 Representative Director Present position since June 2014 Chairman of the Board President & CEO Number of Company shares owned Number of Company shares owned 18,700 25,608 Important concurrent positions Important concurrent positions Director, President & CEO, MSI Director & President, ADI Biography Biography April 1978 Entered Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance April 1979 Entered Dai-Tokyo Fire and Marine Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. Has business experience in market development, Has business experience in human resources sales, product operations, corporate planning, etc. planning, sales, corporate planning, merger Noriyuki Hara Present position since June 2016 Yasuzo Kanasugi preparation, etc. Present position since June 2016 Representative Director Representative Director Executive Officer Executive Officer Newly Appointed Number of Company shares owned Number of Company shares owned 29,015 9,160 Important concurrent positions Important concurrent positions ̶ Director, Senior Executive Officer, ADI Biography Biography April 1979 Entered Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance April 1982 Entered Dai-Tokyo Fire and Marine Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. Has business experience in corporate planning, Has business experience in corporate planning, product operations, claims services, sales, systems investment planning, human resources, etc. Shiro Fujii and administrations, etc. Masahiro Higuchi Present position since April 2016 Director Director Executive Vice President, Executive Officer CFO Newly Appointed Number of Company shares owned Meeting attendance (FY2017) 17,900 15 of 15 Board of Directors' meetings (100%) Important concurrent positions Number of Company shares owned Director, Executive Vice President, MSI 1,100 Biography Reason for appointment She was a chief editor of magazines and was involved April 1979 Entered the Sumitomo Marine and Fire in planning and development of new services at NTT Insurance Co., Ltd. DOCOMO, INC. She has been stating opinions at Has business experience in sales, corporate planning, meetings of the Company’s Board of Directors and claims services, etc. Takashi Kuroda Mari Matsunaga other occasions based on her broad knowledge and experience concerning society, culture, consumer lifestyles, and other areas. We elected her to continue Director Outside Director reflecting her knowledge and experience in the Executive Officer (Independent Director) management of the Company. Important concurrent positions Outside Director of Rohto Pharmaceutical Co. Outside Director of Seiko Epson Corporation Entered Japan Recruit Center Apr. 1977 (currently, Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. [“RECRUIT”]) July 1986 Chief editor of SHUSHOKU JOURNAL, published by RECRUIT July 1988 Chief editor of TRAVAILLE, published by RECRUIT General Manager of Planning Div., Gateway Business Dept., July 1997 NTT Mobile Communications Network Inc. (currently, NTT DOCOMO, INC.) Apr. 2000 President & Director, Mari Matsunaga Office June 2012 Director, the Company (present) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 081 Meeting attendance July 1969 Entered the Prime Minister’s Office 12 of 13 Board of Directors’ meetings held after Oct. 1985 Counsellor of Cabinet Secretariat, Councillor of Cabinet Secretariat appointed date (92.3%) Director of Consumer Statistics Division, Statistics Bureau, July 1989 Number of Company shares owned Management and Coordination Agency 200 July 1994 Director of Gender Equality Bureau, Cabinet Secretariat Reason for appointment April 1995 Vice-Governor of Saitama Prefecture She previously served as Director General of the Gender Equality Bureau of the Cabinet Office and currently June 1998 Consul General of Japan in Brisbane, Australia serves as President of Showa Women’s University. We Jan. 2001 Director General of Gender Equality Bureau, Cabinet Office Mariko Bando elected her to utilize her broad knowledge and experience in public administration and education, as Oct. 2003 Director, Showa Women’s University well as wide insight into promotion of diversity. April 2007 President, Showa Women’s University Outside Director (Independent Director) Important concurrent positions April 2014 Chancellor (Rijicho), Showa Women’s University (present) Chancellor (Rijicho and Socho), Showa Women’s University July 2016 Chancellor (Socho), Showa Women’s University (present) June 2017 Director, the Company (present) Newly Appointed Meeting attendance April 1973 Entered Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation No record due to new appointment Director and General Manager, Planning Dept., Nippon Telegraph June 2002 and Telephone East Corporation Number of Company shares owned Director and General Manager of Corporate Planning Dept., 0 April 2003 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone East Corporation Reason for appointment June 2005 Director, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation He has been a Director of Nippon Telegraph and Executive Vice President, June 2007 Head of Internet Business Division NTT Communications Corporation Telephone Corporation and President Chief Executive Officer of NTT Communications Corporation. We June 2010 President, Chief Executive Officer, NTT Communications Corporation elected him to reflect his broad knowledge and Akira Arima experience from the information and communication business in the management of the Company. June 2015 Director and Advisor, NTT Communications Corporation June 2017 Advisor, NTT Communications Corporation (present) Outside Director June 2018 Director, the Company (present) (Independent Director) Newly Appointed Meeting attendance April 1984 Associate Professor, Faculty of Economics, Okayama University No record due to new appointment April 1986 Associate Professor, Faculty of Economics, Kyoto University Number of Company shares owned April 1995 Professor, Faculty of Economics, Keio University 1,000 Professor Emeritus, Keio University (present) Reason for appointment April 2018 Professor, Faculty of Economics, Rissho University (present) He has experienced a number of posts, including university professor, member of the Financial Services June 2018 Director, the Company (present) Agency's Financial System Council, and chairman of the Council of Experts Concerning the Corporate Kazuhito Ikeo Governance Code and has broad knowledge and experience in the economic and fiscal fields as well as financial administration. We elected him to reflect Outside Director his knowledge and experience in the management of (Independent Director) the Company. Important concurrent positions Professor Emeritus, Keio University Professor, Faculty of Economics, Rissho University Newly Appointed Meeting attendance Admitted as Attorney-at-Law No record due to new appointment April 1998 Attorney-at-Law, Mori Sogo (currently, Mori Hamada & Matsumoto) Number of Company shares owned June 2004 Admitted as Attorney-at-Law, N.Y. 0 Associate Professor, Graduate School of Law and Political Science, April 2010 the University of Tokyo Reason for appointment He has a wealth of knowledge and experience July 2016 Attorney-at-Law, Tobimatsu Law (present) concerning overall corporate legal affairs including June 2018 Director, the Company (present) those overseas companies as an attorney-at-law. We elected him to reflect his knowledge and experience Junichi Tobimatsu in the management of the Company. Important concurrent positions Outside Director Attorney-at-Law, Tobimatsu Law (Independent Director) Outside Corporate Auditor of amana inc. 082 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Audit & Supervisory Board Members Number of Company shares owned Number of Company shares owned 21,000 4,579 Entered Taisho Marine and Entered Chiyoda Fire & April 1979 Apr. 1983 Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Executive Officer, General Manager of Executive Officer, April 2010 Investment Planning Dept., Apr. 2015 Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (“ADI”) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (“MSI”) Managing Executive Officer, General Apr. 2017 Advisor, ADI April 2013 Manager of Financial Services Div., MSI Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Executive Officer, the Company June 2017 the Company (present) Hiroshi Miura April 2014 Director, Managing Executive Officer, General Tomoko Kondo Manager of Financial Services Div., MSI Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full time) June 2015 the Company (present) Board Member (Full time) Meeting attendance (FY2017) Meeting attendance 15 of 15 Board of Directors’ meetings 13 of 13 Board of Directors’ meetings held after 13 of 13 Audit & Supervisory Board meetings appointed date 11 of 11 Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Number of Company shares owned 1,100 Number of Company shares owned 0 Reason for appointment As an accounting and auditing professional, he has Reason for appointment served as a university professor and public-institution As a legal expert, she previously served as a judge and practices committee member, etc., and that extensive law as an attorney-at-law, etc. and that wealth of knowledge and Kunio Chiyoda knowledge and experience will be reflected in the Company’s audits. Kyoko Uemura experience will be reflected in the management of the Company. Important concurrent positions Outside Audit & Important concurrent positions Outside Audit & Attorney-at-Law, LM Law Offices Supervisory Board Director of Terasaki Electric Co., Ltd. (Outside Director (Audit Committee)) Supervisory Board Apr. 1994 Assistant Judge, Osaka District Court Member May 1971 Registered Certified Public Accountant Member (Independent Auditor) (Independent Auditor) Apr. 2004 Judge, Numazu Branch, Shizuoka Family Court Assistant Professor, College of Business April 1976 Administration, Ritsumeikan University Apr. 2005 Judge, Yokohama District Court Professor, College of Business Administration, April 1984 Ritsumeikan University Admitted as Attorney-at-Law Apr. 2008 Attorney-at-Law, LM Law Offices (present) Dean of College of Business Administration, April 1999 Member of the Board, Ritsumeikan University June 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Professor, Graduate School of Accountancy, the Company (present) April 2009 Kumamoto Gakuen University Professor of Graduate School of Accountancy, April 2012 Waseda University Chairperson, Certified Public Accountants April 2013 and Auditing Oversight Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member, June 2016 the Company (present) Executive Officers Chairman of the Board Executive Vice President Executive Officers Hisahito Suzuki Shiro Fujii Masahiro Matsumoto Tetsuji Higuchi Corporate Planning Dept., International Business Assist Management President & CEO Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Dept., Teruhiko Ito Takashi Kuroda Yasuyoshi Karasawa Business Development Dept., International Life Insurance Business Dept., Financial Services Business Marketing ＆ Sales Information Technology Planning Dept., Executive Officers International Supervisory Dept., Hidema Jinno Yukio Ogata General Manager of Products・Reinsurance Internal Audit Dept.*, Noriyuki Hara Group Capital Policy, Corporate Risk Management Dept. Sustainability, Yasuzo Kanasugi Chief Financial Officer Masahiro Higuchi Satoru Tamura Claims Services Assist Management Senior Executive Officer Shinichiro Funabiki Naomi Motojima Fumiaki Ohkawabata Administration and Diversity ＆ Inclusion Human Resources and General Administration Dept., Information Systems Accounting Dept., Chief Information Officer Compliance Dept., Chief Information Security Officer Corporate Risk Management Dept., Chief Digitalization Officer Internal Audit Dept., * Executive Vice President Shiro Fujii is responsible for internal auditing of the Chief Risk Officer departments which Senior Executive Officer Fumiaki Ohkawabata oversees. For more information related to corporate governance, see the Group’s official website. Website content ● Corporate Governance (https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/company/governance/corporate.html) ● Basic Policies on Corporate Governance ● Supervision System in Detail (Role of the Board of Directors, Composition of the Board of Directors, Expected Roles of Outside Directors, Support Systems for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) ● Nomination and Remuneration in Detail (Nomination Process, Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates, Remuneration Determination Processes) ● Responses to 11 Principles of the Corporate Governance Code ● Group Management Structure in Detail ● Internal Control Systems INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 083 Message from Outside Director Outside Director (Independent Director) Mariko Bando Having completed your ﬁrst year as an outside director, How do you feel about participating in please tell us your overall impression about the Board of formulating the new medium-term Directors’management and discussions through the year. management plan“Vision 2021” ? It has been challenging to grasp all of the topics on the In the “Vision 2021,” the MS&AD Insurance Group clearly table to discuss at the Board of Directors because they set a goal to realize “a world-leading insurance and were from the different operating companies within the financial services group” with new management numerical Group. That said, detailed explanations provided in advance targets to achieve. In addition, one of the features is have been very helpful. I have realized that every proposal integrating SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) was brought from great efforts each operating company initiatives into business activities to realize a resilient and made. sustainable society which is an image of society in 2030 For myself, there is nothing more important as an the Group aims. outside director than sharing the Company’s overall goals While the greatest purpose of companies is to and vision. Since all matters to be discussed by the Board sustainably increase profits, we are now questioned what of Directors have already been deliberated at each value we may provide to society at the same time. There operating company, our role is to confirm from various are not a lot of companies yet that incorporate social angles that each matter aligns with the overall strategy and values into company’s business strategy to ensure their vision of the Group. All outside directors, therefore, need to business activities help make the world a “better place to understand the Group’s mission, vision, and values live,” but the MS&AD Insurance Group does. thoroughly. Based on this, we should evaluate various Based on re-acknowledging that a critical goal as an issues by our own criteria while drawing upon our insurance company is to bring safety and peace of mind to expertise and insights to convey fresh perspectives to the a society, in “Vision 2021” there are three core strategies Company. based on its long-term objectives that plan to make steady Looking back on the past year, proposals on overseas progress in achieving. For example, one of these core business have definitely involved protracted deliberations strategies “promoting digitalization” is not only aimed at to come to conclusions. Various opinions have been improving operational efficiency, but also enhancing expressed about how to manage the acquired overseas customer experience value. Therefore, this initiative will be operating company with earnings well below forecasts. In expanded into global market to improve customer’s value general, the Japanese like to strive harder to meet global as group worldwide. This strategy includes initiatives to standards to follow but are not accustomed to lead setting solve social issues such as addressing cyber risks and up new rules by leveraging our own strengths. This is an developing next-generation automobile insurance. issue that we need to overcome if we work with overseas companies to build mutually positive relationships. 084 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation What are your thoughts on the Group’ s hire foreigners as part of its diversity initiatives. A corporate D&I initiatives? culture fostered solely around Japanese employees will be unable to prevail against international competition. This is why From this fiscal year, the Group has placed an executive D&I is so important, and on this basis what vital to promote officer in charge of Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) to strengthen its D&I initiatives is transparency by revealing all issues and every Groupwide efforts to this end. It will take time to see the actual process. effect of diversity. Although it is often said that D&I is a social Diversity means collaboration among people with responsibility to respect human rights, I think the essential role different backgrounds and values. Therefore, it is important to of D&I is to enhance a company’s reform over the long term. I share mutual goals, rules, and decision-making processes. For believe D&I would be one of triggers to generate innovation example, even though final decisions are made by top and that is the intrinsic value of D&I. management, the whole process should be disclosed because Starting with utilizing women employees, it is important to everyone is well informed with the process and starts working set numeric targets for females in management positions over with confident of the decision. The Company must take steps the mediumto long-term. Besides, it is also effective in the to ensure that information is not compartmentalized among near term to develop practical training program and to design employees based on their position, rank, and employment personnel system. The purpose of training programs provides status within the organization. employees with an opportunity to grow themselves. I propose to target 20-30% of participants as women. Moreover, it should not be over-concerned when it What is your expectation for the Group? comes to personnel transfer of female employees. It is really depends on the person, not gender whether the person likes In terms of non-monetary corporate value, I would like to see to try new challenges. In any case, everyone should have the Group gain a reputation of doing right things for society equal opportunities. and people, which contributes to make the world a better In fact, we should create a structure for assigning place. This is what I call “non-monetary corporate value,” employees to desired positions through internal job postings which is beyond monetary value such as market that attract motivated individuals by providing them with open capitalization. To pursue this, each employee must perform opportunities to engage in challenging positions that leverage at full potential to achieve Company’s goals, which in turn their abilities. requires cultivating a working environment to foster the I would like to see multiple career paths geared toward employee’s motivation. employees’ goals. While tangible assets are important, it is ideal model for a In addition, it is critical to foster a more international company to sustainably grow by accumulating intangible workforce in light of the Company’s goal to derive 50% of its assets such as human, intellectual, social, and natural capital. profits from overseas businesses. While fostering global Since people are core value for companies, I truly expect the personnel for Japanese is important, the Company needs to Group to respect people and to foster employee engagement. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 085 Corporate Governance Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors (Information Disclosure and IR Activities) The MS&AD Insurance Group proactively engages in highly transparent information disclosure and constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors in an effort to achieve sustainable growth and increase enterprise value. Specifically, by providing highly transparent information disclosure, MS&AD Holdings seeks to reduce information asymmetries with shareholders and investors. Also, by obtaining feedback from constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors, MS&AD Holdings is able to share this feedback with its management and the relevant departments and utilize it in formulating its management strategies. Main Initiatives ● Holding a briefing for the Integrated Report, talked about MS&AD’s Story of Value Creation ● Holding of “MS&AD IR Day” with the objectives being to have the top management of each business division explain business details and to carry on a constructive dialogue between management executives and investors ● As measures to strengthen information sharing with management and relevant departments, implementation of regular reporting on IR activities, feedback on how the stock markets view the Company, and quarterly reports on the Company’s share price to the Group Management Committee and the Board of Directors ● Creation of a program for feedback meetings to the Group’s relevant departments Activities Undertaken in Fiscal 2017 The Group organized Information Meetings at which the President explained management strategies and performance, as well as MS&AD IR Day, which aimed to have a constructive dialogue between management executives and investors. Opportunities also were created for the President and the officer in charge of the Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Department to speak directly to major shareholders and investors in Japan and abroad. The opinions of shareholders and investors gleaned from these conversations are being reflected in management strategies with the aim of improving enterprise value. We held a briefing about the Integrated Report and talked about MS&AD’s Story of Value Creation. We also held several corporate briefings for individual investors around Japan and participated in the Nikkei IR and Investment Fair for the second consecutive year. ( ) indicates FY2016 figures Strategy explanation meetings for institutional investors and analysts (Information Meeting) Twice (Twice) Telephone conferences (earning results) for institutional investors and analysts 4 (4) times Telephone conferences for institutional investors and analysts 3 (0) times Sessions for an exchange of opinions with institutional investors and analysts (MS&AD IR Day) Once (Once) Investors’ Dialogue on the MS&AD Integrated Report 2017 1 (0) times Conferences organized by securities companies 5 (6) times Individual meetings (except conferences) 231 (232) times Information sessions for individual investors 12 (7) times Information meeting for institutional investors and analysts Investors' Dialogue on the MS&AD Integrated Report 2017 086 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Frameworks and systems supporting our value creation Japanese Japanese Securities Foreign Companies IR Activities for Overseas Investors Individuals Companies & Individuals & Others 3.1% 35.1% With foreign investors and foreign corporate investors making up 9.5% almost 35% of all its investors, MS&AD Holdings has been stepping up efforts for the disclosure and dissemination of information while engaging in a dialogue with overseas investors. The President and the officer in charge of the Corporate Breakdown Communications and Investor Relations Department take trips of types of overseas to visit with investors and proactively participate in shareholders* conferences sponsored by securities firms for foreign investors as a part of our constructive dialogue initiatives. Other Japanese Japanese Financial From the viewpoint of disclosing information in a timely and Companies Institutions fair manner, MS&AD Holdings is enhancing information 16.8% 35.5% disclosure through the English version of its website, making *As of March 31, 2018 concerted efforts to augment information for foreign investors. Information Disclosure as the Basis for Dialogue Website (Japanese/English) Integrated Report (Japanese/English) The Group makes prompt and fair information disclosure in The MS&AD Integrated Report 2017, published in 2017, both English and Japanese. received the Award for Excellence and the Special Award, respectively, from the Fifth WICI Japan Integrated Report Awards and the Nikkei Annual Report Awards. Daiwa Investor Relations “ Internet IR Excellence Award 2017” Japanese version English version General Shareholders’ Meeting FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Held June 22 (Wednesday) June 26 (Monday) June 25 (Monday) Shareholders attending 654 633 774 Ratio of the exercise of voting rights 85.8％ 85.8％ 84.3％ Notice of convocation issue date May 30 (Monday) June 2 (Friday) June 1 (Friday) Notice of convocation notice website May 24 May 23 (Tuesday) (Japanese) May 22 (Tuesday) (Japanese) announcement date (Japanese/English) (Tuesday) May 26 (Friday) (English) May 23 (Wednesday) (English) For more shareholder and investor information, see the Company’s official website. Website content ●“ Policy for Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders” ● Streaming videos of presentations by the President ● Financial and non-financial reports (timely disclosure information, (including a summary of the Q&A session) materials for results briefing – conference call, Corporate Governance ● Notice of convocation of General Shareholders’ Meeting Reports, materials for Information Meeting and CSR Reports) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 087 Basic Knowledge about the Insurance Industry We have prepared this section as reference material to help readers gain a better understanding of the insurance industry and the Company’s business operations and business strategies. We are striving to provide accurate and fair information, but we cannot guarantee the content of this section. Non-Life Insurance Industry Market Overview About ¥8 Trillion Net Premiums Written by Class of Insurance (FY2016) The Japanese non-life insurance industry’s market scale in terms of net premiums written was ¥8,243.9 billion in fiscal 2016. (Total for 26 ¥8,243.9 billion corporate members of the General Insurance Association of Japan) Personal Accident Marine 8.2％ 2.9％ Compulsory (¥672.9 billion) (¥238.8 billion) Automobile-Related Insurance Accounts for More Automobile than 60% Voluntary Automobile Liability Fire and Allied Others Together, voluntary automobile insurance (49.3%) and compulsory 49.3 12.4 13.8 13.4 (¥4,069.1 billion) (¥1,020.8 billion) (¥1,137.8 billion) (¥1,104.4 billion) automobile liability (12.4%) account for more than 60% of the market. 0 50 100 Three Largest Non-Life Insurers Have Almost Source: General Insurance Association of Japan, FACT BOOK 2017 （％） 90% Market Share Combined In Japan, there were 52 companies engaged in the non-life insurance business as of July 2017, including 22 foreign non-life insurers. The three largest non-life insurance groups̶the MS&AD Insurance Group, the Tokio Marine Group and the Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Group (currently Sompo Group) ̶ have an 88% combined share of the market. Types of Insurance and Related Trends Covering Diverse Risks We face diverse risks in our daily lives. Non-life insurance products can compensate for economic damages and human losses (the cost of treating injuries, etc.) caused by natural disasters and accidents. Changing with the Times Composition of Net Direct Premiums Written by Class of Insurance Personal Accident 0.4 Until the 1960s, the non-life insurance market was centered on fire and Compulsory Automobile Liability marine insurance products. With the subsequent rise in the number of Voluntary Automobile automobiles in use, such automobile related products as Voluntary (FY) Fire and Allied Marine Others Automobile Insurance and Compulsory Automobile Liability Insurance 1960 50.1 27.6 13.0 7.1 1.8 became the main products in the market. In recent years, “others” insurance such as Liability Insurance has been growing strongly. 1980 26.1 8.7 30.6 17.8 10.7 6.1 Trend of Increase in Earthquake Insurance 2000 17.5 2.7 40.3 10.9 20.2 8.4 Residential earthquake insurance was developed in 1966, in response to the major earthquake that struck Niigata in Japan in 2016 15.7 2.8 45.0 11.6 10.9 14.0 1964. The number of people obtaining residential earthquake 0 50 100 insurance has been trending upward, and the penetration ratio of （％） Source: General Insurance Association of Japan, FACT BOOK 2017 Earthquake Insurance in residential fire insurance policies has risen Note: “Net direct premiums written” represents revenues from insurance policies directly to 62.1% (at the end of FY2016). provided by each customer. Residential Earthquake Insurance Operated in Trends in the Penetration Rate of Residential Earthquake Insurance Collaboration with Government （％） FY2016 EQ Insurance Penetration 62.1％ 62.1 It is difficult to forecast the damage that will occur in the event of an 60.0 earthquake, so fire insurance by itself does not cover building fires 55.0 and damage caused by earthquakes. 50.0 To provide coverage for earthquake damage, the government and 45.0 insurance companies collaborate to operate residential earthquake 40.3 40.0 insurance, and there are no variations among insurance companies 35.0 with respect to coverage of compensation and insurance premiums. 30.0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year-end) Source: General Insurance Association of Japan, FACT BOOK 2017 Note: The penetration rate of residential earthquake insurance represents the share of fire and allied policies with earthquake coverage. 088 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Supplementary Information Life Insurance Industry Market Scale Approximately ¥43 Trillion The scale of Japanese life insurance industry’s market in terms of life insurance premiums and others in total is approximately ¥43 trillion, making it the world’s second largest market, after that of the United States. Scale of Japan’s Life Insurance Market (Trends in Life Insurance Premiums) Private-sector Mutual aid Former Japan (¥ trillion) 50 companies*1 organizations*2 Post*3 45 40 15.4 11.2 4.6 5.6 6.4 4.5 4.6 15.2 14.3 12.3 11.7 9.2 5.3 5.5 5.9 5.3 35 4.5 30 4.1 4.9 4.9 4.5 4.2 4.3 4.4 25 20 15 27.2 26.3 25.9 26.4 27.9 29.2 28.5 31.8 35.2 35.5 35.1 37.0 38.0 35.7 38.6 38.9 10 5 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015(FY) Sources: Prepared by MS&AD Holdings based on materials from the Life Insurance Association of Japan, the Japan Cooperative Insurance Association Incorporated, and Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd., and based on materials in the Japan Institute of Life Insurance’s “Fiscal 2015 National Survey on Life Insurance” *1 Private-sector companies: Each corporate member of the Life Insurance Association of Japan. Figures represent premiums and others. *2 Mutual aid organizations: Each organization member of the Japan Cooperative Insurance Association Incorporated. Figures represent premiums and other insurance income received (total for life insurance and annuity insurance) *3 Former Japan Post: Premium income (postal life insurance) during the period through September 2007. Japan Post Insurance is included on and after privatization, from October 2007, in the private-sector companies’ figures. Trends in Types of Insurance Decline in Big-Ticket Death Benefit Needs The amount of policies in force for individual insurance has been trending downward since peaking in fiscal 1996. Behind this trend is a decline in big-ticket death benefit needs and a shift to third-sector products (medical and cancer insurance) needs. Trends in Policies in Force (Individual Insurance) (¥ trillion) 1,600 1,495 1,200 862 800 400 0 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2016 (FY) Source: The Life Insurance Association of Japan, “ Life Insurance Fact Book (2017) ” Note: Figures for 2007 and previous years exclude Japan Post Insurance and the former postal life insurance. Third-Sector Products Become the Major Products The Main Products of Life Insurance Market, Third-Sector – The share of medical and cancer insurance policies (third-sector policies) Trends in Individual Insurance Premiums by Type among the total number of new policies written for individuals has risen – Whole life insurance Endowment Children’s with term insurance insurance insurance from 23.0% in FY2000 to 36.3% in FY2016 – and become the major life Whole life Term life Medical and Other (FY) insurance insurance cancer insurance insurance product. In particular, the advent of a full-blown aging society in Japan will be accompanied by a rise in needs for nursing care insurance. New 2000 15.0 18.5 15.7 9.0 23.0 3.1 15.7 In recent years, each life insurance company has been launching new Policies nursing care insurance products which supplements the public nursing 2016 22.6 0.7 13.9 8.9 36.3 4.6 13.0 care insurance system, which is not able to completely cover the expenses entailed by nursing care. Sales of individual annuity insurance began in 2000 10.1 24.5 10.0 13.9 20.2 4.7 16.6 earnest following the October 2002 lifting of the ban on marketing such Policies products via banks. Growth in individual annuity insurance policies in force in Force is now robust. Most recently, the number of policies written for 2016 21.9 5.9 12.6 8.3 35.3 4.5 11.6 “Tontine-type annuity” as insurance for longevity risk is also increasing. 0 50 100 *See the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section P. 96 Source: The Life Insurance Association of Japan, （％） “ Life Insurance Trends (2017 edition) ” Trends in Policies in Force Individual Annuity Insurance by Type Variable Annuity Insurance Fixed Annuity Insurance （millions of policies） 3.33 2.64 2.23 25 3.46 （10.3） 3.11 （16.3） （12.9） 2.20 （18.2） 20 0.31 0.96 （17.9） （13.9） （2.5） （6.9） 15 10 12.60 13.05 13.60 14.31 15.52 17.09 17.85 19.52 5 （97.5） （93.1） （86.1） （82.1） （81.8） （83.7） （87.1） （89.7） 0 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 (FY) Source: The Life Insurance Association of Japan, “ Life Insurance Fact Book (2017) ” Note: Figures in parentheses represent percent shares. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 089 The Insurance Industry Trends and Changes in Japan Environment of the Insurance Industry in Japan Changes in the Macro Environment Natural Disasters As is the case with respect to other industries in Japan, the biggest While natural disasters are a major risk factor in insurance business, the change in the insurance industry’s operating environment is the advent existence of such disasters is also a factor that increases demand for of aging and population decline in Japanese society. insurance. The Insurance Industry Following Financial Regulatory Liberalization Regulatory Liberalization of the Non-Life Insurance Industry Major Events Following Regulatory Liberalization The 1996 revision of the Insurance Business Act brought a shift away 1996 April Revision of the Insurance Business Act from the “convoy system” within the industry and toward liberalization ■ Mutual entry into life and non-life insurance business offering a scope for new initiatives. In addition, in response to changes ■Reform of the rating organization system ■Introduction of products and premium rates notification system, etc. taking place in the insurance industry’s operating environment (insurance product diversification, solicitation channel diversification, and increasing October Mutual entry into life and non-life insurance business by subsidiaries agent size), the Insurance Business Act revision, which went into full 1997 September Approval of risk-subdivision-type automobile insurance effect in May 2016, included as its main points “the establishment of 1998 July Abolition of the obligation for members to use the premium rates calculated by the rating organization basic rules for insurance soliciting” and “the introduction of an obligation 2001 April Ban on insurance sales by banks partially lifted to put in place a system with respect to insurance solicitors (agents).” 2007 September Implementation of Financial Instruments and Exchange Act December Insurance sales by banks fully liberalized Birth of the Three Mega Insurance Groups 2010 April Implementation of the Insurance Act Following the regulatory liberalization of 1996, a progression of mergers 2014 May Passing of law revising the Insurance Business Act and business integrations among non-life insurance companies led to the 2016 May Full implementation of Insurance Business Act revision emergence of the so-called “three mega insurance groups” – the MS&AD (Implementation of a comparison-recommendation Insurance Group, Tokio Marine Group, and Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Group rule and an obligation to grasp customer intentions) (currently Sompo Group). The Insurance Industry Going Forward Initiatives Regarding Overseas Insurance Markets Accelerating Overseas Expansion Potentials of Asia Region Markets and BRICs’ Markets In light of the maturation of Japan’s insurance market, major Japanese The emerging country markets of Asia region countries and BRICs have insurance companies have been working to expand their business base the potential for large growth. The insurance penetration rates (ratio of overseas. insurance premiums against GDP) of the United States and European countries are roughly as high as Japan’s – about 7%-12%. On the other hand, the insurance penetration rate of emerging markets of the Asian region and BRICs is relatively low – in the 1%-4% range – so, those markets can be considered to have considerable growth potential. Development of Principal Insurance Markets in 2016 （US$ billion） Ranking by Life Insurance Premiums Non-Life Insurance Premiums Total Insurance Premiums Insurance Insurance Density*1 Penetration Market/Country Insurance Change from Change from Change from (US$) Rate*2 2016 2016 2016 Premiums 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 Developed markets 2,111 0.3% 1,688 2.8% 3,799 1.4% 3,505 8.0% United States 1 559 0.7% 794 3.9% 1,352 2.6% 4,174 7.3% Japan 2 354 3.9% 117 8.8% 471 5.1% 3,732 9.5% United Kingdom 4 199 (8.7)% 105 (5.1)% 304 (7.5)% 4,064 10.2% France 5 153 (0.9)% 85 1.2% 238 (0.2)% 3,395 9.2% Germany 6 95 (1.8)% 120 1.9% 215 0.2% 2,548 6.1% South Korea 7 104 2.8% 67 4.8% 171 3.6% 3,362 12.1% Italy 8 122 (4.0)% 40 (0.6)% 162 (3.2)% 2,499 8.2% Emerging markets 506 14.2% 427 4.7% 934 9.6% 149 3.2% Latin America and the Caribbean 69 4.1% 79 (16.0)% 149 (7.7)% 257 3.2% Brazil 14 41 10.5% 32 (1.1)% 73 5.2% 346 4.0% Mexico 25 11 (2.4)% 13 (4.0)% 24 (3.3)% 189 2.3% Europe 859 (2.8)% 611 0.6% 1,470 (1.4)% 1,620 6.7% Russia 31 3 51.1% 14 (1.9)% 18 4.8% 123 1.4% Asia and Middle East 1,000 10.6% 493 10.3% 1,494 10.5% 343 5.6% China 3 263 24.6% 204 15.8% 466 20.6% 337 4.2% India 13 62 10.3% 17 15.3% 79 11.3% 60 3.5% United Arab Emirates 39 2 4.2% 8 4.1% 10 4.2% 1,102 2.9% Africa 41 (5.6)% 20 (3.9)% 61 (5.1)% 51 2.8% Oceania 40 (13.0)% 53 2.9% 93 (4.6)% 2,343 6.3% World 2,617 2.8% 2,115 3.1% 4,732 2.9% 638 6.3% Source: Compiled by Swiss Re’s economic research and consulting unit based on confirmed and provisional figures announced by each country’s regulatory authorities and insurance industry associations (sigma No. 3/2017) Note: Figures are real figures adjusted for inflation *1 Insurance density = per capita insurance premiums *2 Insurance penetration rate = insurance premiums as a share of GDP 090 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Supplementary Information Increasing Diversity of Insurance Companies and Sales Channels There are increasingly diverse sales channels – such as direct sales channels, OTC sales by banks, and customer-visit-based insurance shops – and some insurance companies are now specializing in sales via the Internet. Even in conventional sales channels, there is an increasing incidence of cross-selling (see the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section P. 92) and other new approaches. Expanding Breadth of Products and Services “Longevity Risk” New Products and Services Related to Medical and Lengthy lifespans entail growth in living, medical, and other expenses. Long-Term Nursing Care The insurance industry has been seeking to help cover such economic The importance of people’s self-help efforts is expected to continue “risks” associated with lengthy lifespans. increasing, and the associated role of private-sector insurance companies is becoming large. Japan’s Insurance Market Viewed from a Global Perspective Non-Life Insurance The World’s Fourth Largest Market Scale Japanese Market Smaller in a Share of GDP According to the “sigma” newsletter of Swiss Re, the scale of the Japan’s insurance premiums as a share of GDP are only 2.37% (the non-life insurance market in 147 countries and regions around the world 23rd highest), compared to the global average of 2.81%. was approximately ¥229 trillion in 2016. The largest market is that of the United States (approximately ¥86 trillion), and Japan’s market is the fourth largest (approximately ¥12.7 trillion). Comparison of Non-Life Insurance Premium Income in Principal Countries (2016) Direct Premiums Written As a Share of GDP Per Capital Premiums Country/Region (¥ million) Ranking Share (%) (%) Ranking (¥) Ranking United States 86,075,067 1 37.5 4.29 6 265,643 4 China 22,075,272 2 9.6 1.81 45 15,945 55 Germany 13,055,449 3 5.7 3.33 12 151,533 11 Japan 12,717,348 4 5.5 2.37 23 100,660 21 United Kingdom 11,371,886 5 5.0 2.58 21 111,833 18 France 9,201,076 6 4.0 3.17 13 126,693 16 South Korea 7,234,298 7 3.2 4.72 4 142,313 13 Canada 7,001,413 8 3.1 4.22 7 193,294 8 Netherlands 6,914,529 9 3.0 8.27 2 406,979 2 Australia 4,823,335 10 2.1 3.53 10 199,476 6 Italy 4,332,834 11 1.9 2.01 32 66,058 30 Spain 3,703,166 12 1.6 2.77 17 79,942 27 Brazil 3,432,099 13 1.5 1.76 48 16,379 54 Switzerland 2,952,445 14 1.3 4.12 8 350,684 3 India 1,897,466 15 0.8 0.77 76 1,410 83 Taiwan 1,838,783 16 0.8 3.34 11 78,315 28 Belgium 1,808,412 17 0.8 2.64 19 117,690 17 Russia 1,560,883 18 0.7 1.13 70 10,847 62 Mexico 1,433,323 19 0.6 1.27 64 11,172 60 Austria 1,309,884 20 0.6 3.12 14 151,424 12 Other countries (regions) 24,693,738 10.8 Total/Average 229,432,707 100.00 2.81 30,946 Source: Prepared based on data in “sigma No. 3/2017” of Swiss Re. Note 1: The “Total (average)” figures are totals of figures for 147 countries and regions within the scope of the survey in 2016. Note 2: Premium figures are direct premiums written by domesticand foreign-based companies in each country and region (including cross-border transaction premiums), and the figures for each country and region do not include direct premiums written by foreign bases of domestic companies. Note 3: Figures were converted into Japanese yen at the average exchange rate for 2016 (US$1=¥108.47). Life Insurance Premium Income/Rankings/ Life Insurance Market Share by Country (Top 10 Countries) Life Insurance Premiums (2016) Japanese Market Accounts for Approximately 13.5% Country Ranking Premium Income (US$ million) Share (%) of the Global Market According to “sigma No. 3/2017” newsletter of Swiss Re “International United States*1 1 558,847 21.4 Life Insurance Statistics” of the Life Insurance Association of Japan, Japan*2 2 354,053 13.5 global life insurance premium income amounted to approximately China 3 262,616 10.0 US$2,620 billion in 2016. The figure for Japan was approximately US$354 billion (¥38 trillion), corresponding to 13.5% of the global figure. United Kingdom 4 199,369 7.6 France 5 152,817 5.8 Source: Prepared based on data in “sigma No. 3/2017” of Swiss Re. Italy 6 122,438 4.7 Note: Figures represent premiums directly written in each country irrespective of South Korea*2 7 104,169 4.0 the geographical base of the underwriting company. *1 Life insurance premiums figures include estimates of premiums from group Germany 8 94,661 3.6 pension policies (except in certain regions). Taiwan 9 84,493 3.2 *2 Figures are for the fiscal year from April 1, 2016, through March 31, 2017. India*2 10 61,817 2.4 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 091 Commissions and Collection Expense Glossary of Insurance Terminology The total of agent commissions, insurance broker commissions, sales expense, collection expense, reinsurance commissions, A and ceded premium commissions. (Note that ceded premium Alternative Risk Transfer (ART) Business commissions, which are commission incomes pertaining to A general term referring to the use of techniques other than ceded reinsurance and retrocession premiums, are deductions.) traditional insurance policies to transfer risks, meaning to provide risk-bearing entities with coverage or protection. ART Compulsory Automobile Liability Insurance (CALI) entails the use of financial technologies and capital markets to In order to provide relief to victims of automobile accidents, this provide risk solutions. ART products include derivatives and is compulsory insurance that all motor vehicles must be enrolled securitized products, and the typical products include “weather in under law. Motorized bicycles are also subject to this derivatives” and “earthquake derivatives.” requirement. Compulsory automobile liability insurance provides compensation in cases where other persons are killed or injured Annualized Premiums in traffic accidents, etc. Insurance claims are paid for loss The insurance premium payment method differs depending on compensation of the other persons. the insurance contract. An annualized premium is calculated by adjusting for these differences in payment methods and Core Profit (Fundamental Profit) computing the yearly average paid in premiums. It indicates how Ordinary profit after adjustments for capital profits/(losses) and much income an insurance company makes from insurance extraordinary income and losses, which represent profits and premiums in one year. losses not stemming from principal business of life insurance companies; so, Core Profit is an indicator of the profitability of Asset Liability Management (ALM) the Company’s principal business operations during a fiscal A general term for the comprehensive management of risks year. The concept of Core Profit is close to those of ordinary related to assets and liabilities. The value of most of the assets companies’ “operating income” and banks’ “business income.” held by insurance companies and other financial institutions is affected by market prices (or market interest rates), in other Corporate Governance Code words, they are at risk. A proper evaluation of risks and returns Corporate governance principles that the Tokyo Stock Exchange cannot focus on assets or liabilities alone – the ALM business is requiring its listed companies to comply with. (For more management methodology seeks to maximize profit, while details, please consult the Tokyo Stock Exchange website.) managing in a way that pays comprehensive attention to the URL https://www.jpx.co.jp/english/equities/listing/cg/03.html risk and return of both assets and liabilities. Cross-Selling Assumed Interest Rate Concurrent selling of life insurance and non-life insurance Insurance companies anticipate a certain level of profits from products, such as in the case of a non-life insurance agent that asset management and offer discounts on insurance premiums sells life insurance products. based on this. This discount rate is called the assumed interest rate. D Direct Insurance C A term used in contrast with reinsurance. When an insurance Cancer Insurance contract is reinsured, the original insurance that has been Cancer insurance policies provide hospitalization benefits and reinsured is called direct insurance. surgery benefits when beneficiaries are hospitalized or undergo It can also be used to refer to all the insurance contracts surgery to treat cancer. There are products that provide “cancer directly entered into with policyholders by the insurance outpatient benefits” to beneficiaries after they have been company. → Reinsurance discharged from a hospital after having been hospitalized for a specified period of time, and there are products that provide E “cancer hospital discharge benefits” or “cancer home care benefits” after they have been discharged from a hospital after Earned-Incurred Loss Ratio (EI Loss Ratio) having been hospitalized for a specified period of time. After adjusting for provisions and reversals of loss reserves and ordinary policy liability reserves, the EI Loss Ratio is an indicator Catastrophe Reserves of the loss ratio on a current period occurrence basis. Most non-life insurance premium rates are set using the “law of It is calculated as follows. → Net Loss Ratio large numbers,” but, in a given fiscal year, it is always possible ・EI Loss Ratio = claims incurred ÷ premiums earned that there will be a major typhoon or other large disaster ・Claims incurred = period-end net claims paid + (period-end loss causing damages on a scale that cannot be absorbed using reserve – previous period-end loss reserve) premium income for that year alone. The catastrophe reserve is ・Premiums earned = previous period-end unearned premiums + provided to prepare to respond to the temporary surge in claims net premiums written for the period – associated with such disasters. For more details, see P. 97. period-end unearned premiums CAT Bond (Catastrophe Bond) Embedded Value (EV) Securities sold by non-life insurance companies to investors to The current value of net assets plus the current value of future enable the insurance companies to avoid major losses owing to profit expected from policies in force (policies in force value). claims paid in connection with major disasters. Under current statutory accounting practices, the recognition of If there is no occurrence of a disaster on a scale surpassing costs is concentrated at the time of sales, while the related previously stipulated criterion, then the CAT bonds’ interest and profits are recognized in subsequent years; so, using those principal will be paid to the investors, but, in the case of such a accounting practices to accurately evaluate corporate perfordisaster, the principal will be partially or entirely reduced. mance is difficult in some ways. Since EV encompasses an evaluation of the current value of future profit expected from Combined Ratio policies in force, it is a useful indicator that can be used to An indicator that is the sum of the net loss ratio and the net supplement statutory accounting practices for the purpose of expense ratio, and subtracting this ratio from 1 gives the evaluating companies’ performance and enterprise values. underwriting balance ratio. Although the indicator is not adjusted to reflect outstanding claims and underwriting reserve, it reflects profitability for the fiscal period. Used only in the insurance industry, its concept is similar to that of the ratio of operating profit on sales of ordinary companies. 092 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Supplementary Information While the Company has disclosed its EV for some time, G since fiscal 2011, it has disclosed its EV calculated on the basis of the European Embedded Value principles (EEV principles*), General Insurance Rating Organization of Japan and this type of EV is referred to as EEV. In addition, the An insurance rating organization formed by the merger in July Company’s calculations of EEV employ a market-consistent 2002 of the Property and Casualty Insurance Rating Organizaapproach to evaluating liabilityand asset-related cash flows tion of Japan (established 1948) and the Automobile Insurance that is consistent with the financial products traded in markets. Rating Organization of Japan (established 1964), which were * The EEV principles were instituted by a CFO Forum (comprised of the chief financial established in accordance with the Act of Non-Life Insurance officers (CFOs of major European insurance companies)), in May 2004 with the goal Rating Organizations. of promoting a consistent EV calculation and disclosure method and thereby promoting an increase in transparency. It collects data from member insurance companies and calculates the Reference Loss Cost Rates for automobile Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) insurance, fire insurance, personal accident insurance, and A process for determining and evaluating the risks associated nursing care expense insurance, as well as Standard Rates for with the execution of business operations by an enterprise in an compulsory automobile liability insurance and earthquake integrated, comprehensive, and strategic manner. It is an insurance. It also handles loss adjustment work for compulsory integrated risk management method used for maximizing automobile liability, collects insurance data, and conducts enterprise value. For more details, see PP. 38 and 70. research and analysis. Equity Ratio Gross Written Premiums The proportion of equity divided by total assets. Owing to the Premiums written that were received from direct insurance application of accounting standards concerning financial contracts and reinsurance contracts during one fiscal year; they products and inclusion of unrealized gains on securities within are the premiums written prior to the deduction of reinsurance balance sheet figures, the equity ratio is also stated based on premiums ceded via reinsurance contracts. market value. Group Core Profit ESG Group Core Profit, which is a numerical management target Three concepts of environmental, social, and governance (ESG). within the Next Challenge 2017 medium-term management In ESG investing, the investor does not focus exclusively on the plan, is calculated as follows. profit that can be earned from an investment, but goes on to Group Core Profit = Consolidated net income Net capital consider the impact of the investment on the environment as gains/losses on stock portfolio (gains/losswell as on shareholders, customers, employees, local communies on sales, etc.) Net evaluation ties, and other stakeholders. ESG investing essentially entails gains/losses on credit derivatives Other carrying out CSR when making investment decisions. incidental factors + Equity in earnings of the non-consolidated Group companies Expected Mortality Based on past statistics, gender-wise and age-wise mortality (or Group Return on Equity (Group ROE) the number of those alive) is predicted, and this information is Group ROE, which is a numerical management target within the used for calculating the required amount of insurance premium Next Challenge 2017 medium-term management plan, is for the future insurance payments. The mortality rate used in calculated as follows. these calculations is called the expected mortality. Group ROE = Group Core Profit ÷ Consolidated total net assets excluding non-controlling interests (average of Expected Operating Expense Ratio beginning and ending amounts of B/S) Life insurance companies anticipate all the expenses required for business operation such as concluding contracts, receiving Group Adjusted Profit premiums, maintaining and managing policies, and so on in Group Adjusted Profit, which is a numerical management target advance. The sum of these expenses is divided by expected within the Vision 2021 medium-term management plan, is premium income to calculate the expected operating expense calculated as follows. ratio. Group Adjusted Profit = Consolidated net income + provision for catastrophe loss reserve and others other incidental factors (amortization F of goodwill and other intangible fixed Foreign Currency-Denominated Life Insurance assets, etc.) + equity in earnings of the Foreign currency-denominated life insurance calls for the use of non-consolidated group companies foreign currency (U.S. dollars, Euros, Australian dollars, etc.) to pay insurance premiums and the use of foreign currency to pay Group Adjusted ROE insurance benefits and reimbursements upon policy cancellaGroup Adjusted ROE, which is a numerical management target tions. A portion of such life insurance products as whole life within the Vision 2021 medium-term management plan, is insurance, endowment insurance, and fixed/variable individual calculated as follows. annuities are sold as foreign currency-denominated products. Group Adjusted ROE = Group Adjusted Profit ÷ average of When the foreign-currency benefits from such products are beginning and ending amounts on B/S converted into yen, they will be impacted by foreign exchange of adjusted net assets (consolidated net rate fluctuations; so, there is a possibility that the yen-denomiassets + catastrophe loss reserve and nated benefits may end up being lower than the yen-denomiothers goodwill and other intangible nated value of the premiums paid. The impact of foreign fixed assets) exchange rate fluctuations is referred to as “foreign exchange I risk (foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk),” and policyholders and beneficiaries of foreign currencydenominated policies are Income Guarantee Insurance exposed to those risks. A type of insurance under which pension can be claimed after the policyholder’s death for the full term of the insurance as Full-Time Agents decided at the time of entering the contract. The number of Agents specializing in the sale of insurance. In the field of times pension can be claimed depends on the time of death of non-life insurance, in addition to specialized agents (professionthe policyholder. The minimum number of times pension can be al agents), there are also automobile sales dealers, automobile claimed is guaranteed. If the number of times pension has been repair shops, real estate agents, travel agents, and other claimed before maturity is less than the guaranteed minimum, sideline agents that sell insurance alongside their main line of the remaining number of times can be claimed. business. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 093 Incurred but Not Reported Loss (IBNR) Lloyd’s (Insurance Market) The portion of underwriting reserves corresponding to claims The generic name for an insurance market established in that have incurred but had not been reported to the company at London in the 17th century, having more than a 300-year the end of the period. IBNR is estimated using statistical history. On a day-to-day basis, huge and complex risks are methods. → Ordinary Outstanding Claims Reserve brought to Lloyd’s, where that risk is assessed, premiums decided, and insurance underwritten by underwriters who have a Individual Annuity Insurance high level of specialized expertise and who belong to individual Annuity insurance is a financial product used to save premiums syndicates (the risk underwriting bodies at Lloyd’s). and thereby fund the payment of future annuities, and individual Lloyd’s is under the supervision of the British regulatory annuity insurance is an annuity insurance product provided by authorities as well as the rigorous management and supervisory private-sector life insurance companies. The annuities are system of Lloyd’s itself, and it is not easy to become a Lloyd’s received after the beneficiary reaches an age specified in the member (syndicate fund contributor) or establish a syndicate as policy contract. There are several kinds of individual annuity many strict requirements must be satisfied. insurance products defined based on the annuity receipt period, As of the end of December 2017, Lloyd’s had 95 such as whole life annuity with a guarantee period, annuity syndicates and 56 managing agents registered. The fiscal 2017 certain, fixed-term annuity with a guarantee period, and a gross written premiums of the Lloyd’s market as a whole were husband-and-wife annuity. approximately 33.5 billion British pounds. Insurance Business Act A law that was enacted to promote the protection of Policyholder Lloyd’s broker Risk assessment, underwriting approval / policyholders through ensuring sound and appropriate business disapproval and operations of insurance companies and fair solicitation of decisions of terms & insurance policies. The act lays down organizational and Underwriter conditions operational rules for insurance businesses, as well as defining the criteria for the administration and supervision of insurance Syndicate companies, and determining the supervision standards and authorities of government units overseeing insurance business operations. Insurance Claim (Benefit) Managing agent In the case of non-life insurance, the sum of money paid by an insurance company to the insured based on the amount of (Management, operation for Syndicate) damage incurred as a result of an insured event. (In the case of life insurance) the sum of money decided beforehand in the insurance contract paid by the insurance company upon the maturity of the contract to the designated beneficiary, in the event of illness or death of the insured person. Long-Term Care Insurance (Nursing Care Insurance) A kind of insurance that can provide benefits for the purpose of providing long-term nursing care. In Japan, there exists both J public long-term care insurance and private long-term care insurance products. Among the latter type of products, there are Japanese Version of the Stewardship Code products that will provide a lump-sum benefit and/or annuities A set of principles released by the Financial Services Agency in cases where the beneficiary requires nursing due to being directed at institutional investors who own shares in companies. bedridden or suffering dementia for a specified period of time. (For details, please see the Financial Services Agency website.) There are also products that will provide a lump-sum benefit URL https://www.fsa.go.jp/en/refer/councils/stewardship/ and/or annuities based on the public long-term care insurance system’s primary nursing care requirement authorization. L Loss Adjustment Expense Personnel expenses and non-personnel expenses (including Law of Large Numbers depreciation costs) as well as various taxes related to the loss If you roll a die (1 dice), a “one” may appear by chance, but if adjustment and insurance claim payment operations. you continue to increase the number of times the die is rolled, the ratio of times that “one” appears will approach one time out of six. As in this case, when the number of trials is increased, M the law of large numbers indicates that the results will approach a fixed value. When calculating the probability of accident Medical Insurance occurrence, the probability can be forecast by analyzing large Medical insurance provides benefits to policyholders when they volumes of accident data rather than just looking at the are hospitalized due to illness or injury or undergo specified accident percentages of a few cases. types of surgical operations. Some medical insurance policies also provide death benefits on the decease of the beneficiary, Life Insurance Professional but the amount of such benefits is generally small. An agent specializing in life insurance or selling life insurance as its main business. Motor Channel Agent Sideline agents that sell insurance as a side business but are mainly automobile repair shops, used car sales dealers, or automobile-related service providers, or motorbike shops. Automobile dealerships that also sell insurance are excluded from this category. 094 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Supplementary Information N Outstanding Claims When an accident has occurred prior to the balance sheet date Net Claims Paid and the related claim has not been paid, provisions are made to Net claims paid is obtained by totaling (adding or subtracting as the outstanding claims to fund the claim payment. indicated) items ❶ to ❹ listed to the right, and plainly shows the amount of insurance claims paid. The payment ❶ Direct claims paid P of insurance claims is the -） ❷ Reinsurance claims ceded main expenditure involved Policies in Force ＋） ❸ Reinsurance claims paid in the non-life insurance The outstanding amount of valid insurance policies owned by an business. -） ❹ Retrocession claims ceded insurance company at the end of the fiscal year. It is an ❺ Net claims paid indication of the grand total amount (of insurance, etc.) Net Expense Ratio （Income statement item) guaranteed to policyholders. The net expense ratio is obtained by adding the commissions and collection expense to Policy Clauses operating expenses and general administrative expenses The policy clauses define the details of the insurance contract, incurred in the insurance underwriting business, and dividing including the policyholder’s obligation to pay the insurance premium this by net premiums written. It is an indicator of the operational and duty of disclosure, as well as the payment amount and terms efficiency of an insurance company. The net expense ratio can and conditions of payment by the insurance company. There are also be called simply “expense ratio.” two kinds of policy clauses – common policy clauses, which are common to all insurance contracts of the same type, and special Net Loss Ratio policy clauses (clauses containing special policy conditions), which The net loss ratio is obtained by adding net claims paid and loss are customized for individual contracts by adding to or changadjustment expenses, and dividing this by net premiums written, ing/limiting some of the provisions in the common policy clauses. and it indicates the company’s insurance underwriting business performance. It can also be called “published loss ratio” or “loss Policyholder ratio.” The party applying to an insurance company for an insurance The net loss ratio is what is called a “written paid basis” contract is called the policyholder. The policyholder is obliged to indicator, as it can be calculated based simply on written pay the insurance premium once the contract is concluded. premium and paid claims during the accounting period in question. → Earned-Incurred Loss Ratio (EI Loss Ratio) Policy Reserve The reserve set aside by the insurance company at the period-end Net Premiums Written closing of accounts so that it can fulfill its obligation to pay insurance Net premiums written is obtained by totaling (adding or claims based on insurance contracts. It includes outstanding claims subtracting as indicated) items ❶ to ❹ listed to the right, and and underwriting reserves, and policyholder dividend reserves. plainly shows the income earned from ❶ Direct premiums written the non-life insurance -） ❷ Reinsurance premiums ceded R business (excluding ＋） ❸ Reinsurance premiums written deposit premiums Reinsurance from policyholders). -） ❹ Retrocession premiums ceded When an insurance company seeking to disperse risk which an ❺ Net premiums written insurance company underwrote the responsibility for insurance (Income statement item) policies it has written to another insurance company, that is called reinsurance. → Direct Insurance Non-Fleet Grade System (Automobile Insurance) A system of insurance premium discounts and surcharges based Reinsurance Premium on the accident history applied to non-fleet contracts. The term An insurance premium received from another insurance non-fleet contracts refers to contracts where the total number of company via a reinsurance contract in return for underwriting a contract automobiles owned and used by the policyholder (the part of the risk. number of contracts with other insurance companies included) is nine or less. (Cases where the number of automobiles is 10 or Reinsurance Premium Ceded more are referred to as “fleet contracts.”) The grades are divided An insurance premium paid to another insurance company via a into 20 levels (grade 1 to grade 20), and the grade is reinsurance contract in return for covering a part of the risk of the maintained even if the insurance company changes. original insurance contract, for purposes such as risk diversification. For more details, see P. 97. Reorganization by Function O An unprecedented business model made possible by the 2013 revision of Japan’s Insurance Business Act, Reorganization by Ordinary Outstanding Claims Reserve Function calls for making the most of the strengths of each group A type of outstanding claims reserve set aside based on an insurance company while undertaking business reorganization. estimation of future liability of individual claims that have While enabling the bypassing of the negative aspects of simple occurred and been reported but not yet settled. corporate mergers – including temporary costs and the business → Incurred but Not Reported Loss (IBNR) impediments, time losses, and various other problematic factors that often arise at the time of mergers – Reorganization by Function is Ordinary Underwriting Reserves designed to realize smooth business integration without slowing the The amount of unearned premiums (premium reserve) or the speed of business growth, and it concurrently enables the initial year balance, whichever is greater, is set aside as a leveraging of individual companies’ strengths and the realization of liability reserve and called “ordinary underwriting reserve.” efficiency in the pursuit of business scale and profitability. ・Unearned premiums (premium reserve): Insurance premiums corresponding to the time period remaining on an insurance policy, collected beforehand. ・Initial year balance: Premiums received during the fiscal year less claims paid, reserves for outstanding claims, and other expenses incurred under those contracts. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 095 Reserve for Price Fluctuation Three Surplus Factors (Life Insurance) In accordance with the Insurance Business Act revised in 1996, The three surplus factor refers to three margins: the this reserve is provided to cover losses incurred from future administrative expense margin, which is the difference decreases in prices of assets such as stocks and bonds whose between the planned administrative expense based on the value is likely to fluctuate. planned expense ratio and the actual administrative expenses; the risk margin (mortality margin), which is the difference Retrocession Premium between the planned payment amounts from insurance, benefits, When a reinsurance company reinsures a certain portion of the etc. based on the planned mortality rate and the actual payment accepted reinsurance risks to other reinsurers, a reinsurance amounts from insurance, benefits, etc.; and the investment yield company pays a retrocession premium to other reinsurers based margin which is the difference between the planned investment on the retrocession contracts. income based on the planned interest rate and the actual investment income. (If the investment yield margin is negative, it S will be in a negative spread state.) The three surplus factors are breakdown of core profit, which is an indicator of the Solvency Margin Ratio periodical profit and loss situation of a life insurance company. The solvency margin of an insurance company, including its capital and reserves, seen as a percentage of a risk amount Tontine-Type Annuity greater than what can be ordinarily expected, which may include Defined as “a plan whereby the guarantee of someone who has catastrophic disasters or a massive drop in the price of owned died is controlled and their share in an annuity devolved to the assets. It is an indicator of the soundness of the company’s pension of someone living,” the tontine-type annuity product management. offers the benefit of the longer people live, the more pension is Solvency margin ratio = solvency margin ÷ half of total risk received. Its name is derived from an insurance system devised amount greater than what can be ordinarily expected by the Italian Lorenzo de Tonti. Strategic Equity Investments in stocks with the intention of holding the stock over U a long period to maintain and strengthen general business Underwriting Profit (Loss) relationships with the issuer, while also securing a stable stream Claims payment and loss adjustment expenses, maturity refunds and of investment income and improving asset value over the long other underwriting expenses, and operating expenses and other general run. administrative expenses required for insurance underwriting are subtracted from net premiums written and other underwriting profit, and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) this is then adjusted to reflect other income and expenditure (such as URL http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development-goals.html expenses associated with compulsory automobile liability insurance, etc., Goal 1: No poverty corresponding to corporate taxes) to calculate underwriting profit (loss). Goal 2: Zero hunger As for non-life insurance companies, the principal revenue sources Goal 3: Good health and well-being are underwriting income and investment income, and underwriting profit Goal 4: Quality education indicates the profitability level of underwriting operations. Goal 5: Gender equality Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Underwriting Reserves Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy The general term for reserve funds set aside by insurance companies Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth based on the legal requirement, for use toward insurance claims Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure payments and other insurance-related obligations that could arise in the Goal 10: Reduced inequalities future. Underwriting reserves are broadly classified into five types. Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities (1) ordinary underwriting reserves, (2) catastrophe reserves, (3) contingency Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production reserves, (4) refund reserves, and (5) policyholder dividend reserves. Goal 13: Climate action Goal 14: Life below water V Goal 15: Life on land Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Variable Insurance Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals An insurance product where the premium is invested in stocks, bonds, and other assets, and the insurance payment or payout T upon cancellation varies depending on the performance of the investment. The investment risk (the risk fluctuation in pension or Telematics cancellation payout) is borne by the individual policyholder. When A combination of “telecommunication” and “informatics,” telematics the policyholder dies, the beneficiary can claim the basic refers to information services provided by equipping automobiles insurance + variable insurance. The basic insurance is a minimum and other mobile objects with communications systems. amount guaranteed to the policyholder irrespective of the Telematics Automobile Insurance refers to the automobile investment fund’s performance. Even when the variable insurance insurance with the premium rates calculated based on the collected is negative, the basic insurance can be claimed. data which is relating to the driver’s driving tendency such as miles driven, drivers’ use of accelerator and brake functions. W Term Insurance Whole Life Insurance A type of insurance, where the term of the insurance is fixed and Of the types of insurance providing for the receipt of death the insurance benefits can be claimed only if the policyholder benefits on death, this is a type that is not for a fixed period but dies during the term. There are no maturity proceeds. This is continues for a lifetime and does not have benefits on maturity. ordinarily a fixed-amount insurance, where the insurance amount → Term Insurance is fixed and remains unchanged throughout the term of insurance, but it could also be a decreasing term insurance, where the insurance premium is fixed and the insurance amount progressively decreases over the insurance term, and increasing Accounting Line Item Terminology term insurance, where the insurance amount increases over the Please refer to the Guide Book for the Understanding of Disclosure Materials of Non-Life Insurance Companies*1 (prepared by the General duration of the insurance term. → Whole Life Insurance Insurance Association of Japan) and the Life Insurance Company Disclosure Notes Glossary*2 (prepared by the Life Insurance Third Sector Association of Japan for details of accounting line items and other The third “sector” of insurance, positioned somewhere between pertinent information. the first sector (life insurance) and second sector (non-life *1 http://www.sonpo.or.jp/archive/publish/sonpo/pdf/0004/ insurance), and includes many different types of insurance, such book_kantanguide.pdf as medical insurance, cancer insurance, nursing care insurance, *2 http://www.seiho.or.jp/data/publication/tora/pdf/tora_yougo.pdf and accident insurance. 096 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Supplementary Information Catastrophe Reserves Non-Fleet Grade System (Automobile Insurance) ● These are reserves that insurance companies set aside to ● This system applies discount percentages to grades prepare for major disasters (typhoons, earthquakes, etc.) defined from Grade 1 to Grade 20. for which the “law of large numbers” does not function. ● The funds are accumulated as reserves (expense posted) at a certain percentage of each fiscal year’s net High premiums written. ● If a fiscal year’s loss ratio (ratio of net losses paid to net premiums written) exceeds a certain threshold, reserves Insurance are reversed and posted as income. premiums ● This is one of the mechanisms used to mitigate the impact on an insurance company’s fiscal year profit and to Grade Grade Grade Grade Grade Grade Grade guarantee it has a suitable capacity to pay insurance claims. 1 2 3 4 18 19 20 Low High Surcharges Low Low Discounts High Amount of reversal of catastrophe reserve (income) If the net loss ratio exceeds the reversal threshold determined for each insurance line (group), the amount exceeding the threshold is reversed out of the reserve. No reversal of Reversal of catastrophe reserve catastrophe reserve ● When the contract is first concluded, the customer starts at Grade 6 (or Grade 7) and then rises by a one-grade increment if there are no accidents. Net 100％ Premiums 50％ ● If there is an accident, the grade drops by three-grade Written In case of fire/ Net Losses Net Losses cargo group increments, and, at renewal time, the grade, in principle, Paid Paid drops by three-grade increments per accident.* * Depending on the accident type and the type of claim received, there are Example: FY2010 FY2011 cases where the grade drops by only a one-grade increment and cases where the matter is not counted as an accident. Principle 3 grades down for 1 accident About Residential Earthquake Insurance High Based on Japan's Law Concerning Earthquake Insurance (the Earthquake Insurance Act), residential earthquake Accident insurance is operated jointly by the government and Insurance non-life insurance companies. Reflecting the significant premiums impact that earthquakes can have on society, residential earthquake insurance is a prerequisite for and incidental Grade Grade Grade Grade Grade Grade to fire insurance. Recognizing the substantial damage 13 14 15 16 17 18 that is likely to occur in the event of a large-scale Low earthquake, residential earthquake insurance involves a If no accidents: 1 grade up government reinsurance underwriting mechanism in preparation for the payment of massive insurance amounts. For their part, non-life insurance companies forego the accumulation of profits in similar fashion to compulsory automobile liability insurance. Premiums are set aside as a reserve to cover insurance payments in the ● Even at the same grade, discount percentages differ, event of an earthquake in the future. depending on whether there have been accidents in the past. When “accidents exist,” insurance premiums are set higher than when “no accidents exist.” Government and Private-Sector Burdens Revised April 1, 2017 ■Private sector: Not High accident Grade ¥173.2 billion free (¥ billion) 15 Grade 11,300 ■Japanese 16 Grade Discount % government: 17 Insurance ¥11,126.8 billion premiums 11,058.8 16.8 Low Grade Grade Grade Low 15 16 17 Discounts 224.4 High 68.0 68.0 Accident free 88.4 Discount % 88.4 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 097 Corporate Profile MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings is an insurance holding company. The Company controls the entire MS&AD Insurance Group, planning strategies and allocating management resources across the Group, as well as monitoring and overseeing Group companies. The Company has thus established a system for Group corporate governance. The Company will be the force to maximize the total potential of the Group, forming the center of efforts to raise the level of management control, pursue Group synergies, accelerate decision making, and develop human assets through various business frameworks and personnel systems. Corporate name MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Date established April 1, 2008 (Name changed on April 1, 2010) Headquarters 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan Representative Yasuyoshi Karasawa, Representative Director, President & CEO Paid-in capital ¥100,000 million Number of employees 390 (41,295 on a consolidated basis) (As of March 31, 2018) Our activities as an insurance holding company are as follows: 1. Management of non-life and life insurance companies and companies qualified to become subsidiaries under Business description the Insurance Business Act. 2. Any business associated with the above. Tokyo Stock Exchange (First Section) Stock listings Nagoya Stock Exchange (First Section) Independent auditor KPMG AZSA LLC MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. / Organizational Chart (As of April 1, 2018) Shareholders’ Meeting Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Nomination Committee Office of Audit & Board of Directors Supervisory Board Remuneration Committee Internal Audit Dept. Governance Committee Task-Specific Committee Meetings Group Management Committee Officers in Charge Corporate Planning Dept. Information Technology Planning Dept. Business Development Dept. Human Resources and General Administration Dept. Accounting Dept. Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Dept. Compliance Dept. Corporate Risk Management Dept. International Supervisory Dept. International Life Insurance Business Dept. Sustainability Section Innovations Section Healthcare Administration Center Shareholder Relations and Legal Section Real Estate Section Investment Risk Management Section Investment Planning Section 098 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Stock and Shareholders (As of March 31, 2018) 1. Summary of Issued Shares Class of Stock Common stock Total Number of Authorized Shares 900,000,000 Total Number of Issued Shares 593,291,754 Number of Shareholders 65,512 2. Shareholding Profile Breakdown by Sector Japanese Financial Japanese Securities Other Japanese Foreign Companies Japanese Individuals Item Total Institutions Companies Companies and Individuals and Others Number of Shareholders 185 63 1,553 818 62,893 65,512 Number of Shares Held (millions) 210.48 18.40 99.93 208.21 56.24 593.29 Percentage of Shares Issued 35.5% 3.1% 16.8% 35.1% 9.5% 100.0% Breakdown by Number of Shares Held Item 1–99 100–999 1,000–9,999 10,000–99,999 100,000 and Above Total Number of Shareholders 18,582 33,640 11,919 966 405 65,512 Percentage of All Shareholders 28.4% 51.3% 18.2% 1.5% 0.6% 100.0% Breakdown by Region Item Hokkaido Tohoku Kanto Chubu Kinki Chugoku Shikoku Kyushu Overseas Total Number of Shares (millions) 1.08 2.88 286.91 67.04 20.38 2.27 2.35 2.27 208.08 593.29 Percentage of Shares Issued 0.2% 0.5% 48.3% 11.3% 3.4% 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% 35.1% 100.0% ３. Major Shareholders Number of Shares Percentage to Shareholder Name Address Held (thousands) Shares Issued (%) Toyota Motor Corporation 1, Toyota-cho, Toyota City, Aichi Prefecture 52,610 8.88 1-6-6, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 36,325 6.13 c/o Nippon Life Securities Operations Department The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 2-11-3, Hamamatsu-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo 33,531 5.66 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 1-8-11, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 26,685 4.50 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 380072 25 BANK STREET, CANARY WHARF, LONDON, E14 5JP, (Standing agent: Corporate Financial Sales Div., 13,953 2.36 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.) UNITED KINGDOM (2-15-1 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 1-8-11, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 9,855 1.66 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 7) 1-8-11, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 9,363 1.58 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 1-8-11, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 9,130 1.54 STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT-TREATY 505234 1776 HERITAGE DRIVE, NORTH QUINCY, MA 02171, U.S.A. (Standing agent: Corporate Financial Sales Div., 8,869 1.50 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.) (2-15-1 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo) THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 140044 225 LIBERTY STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK, U.S.A. (Standing agent: Corporate Financial Sales Div., 8,400 1.42 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.) (2-15-1 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo) Total 208,725 35.23 Note: Number of shares held is rounded down; percentage to shares issued is shown as rounded to the nearest hundred percent. The Company owns 880,702 treasury shares but these are omitted from the table above. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 099 4. Changes in Total Number of Issued Shares, Paid-in Capital, etc. Issued Shares Paid-in Capital Capital Reserves Date Increase/Decrease Balance Increase/Decrease Balance Increase/Decrease Balance June 30, 2017 (40,000) thousand 593,291 thousand － ¥100,000 million － ¥729,255 million Note: The decrease in the total number of issued shares was due to the retirement of treasury shares. 5. Basic Information Fiscal Year April 1 to March 31 of the following year Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Within three months of the end of each fiscal year Record Date Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: March 31, every year Year-end dividends: March 31, every year Interim dividends: September 30, every year Method of Public Notification Electronic reporting can be found online at https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/ja/ir/notification.html (Japanese only) In the event of an incident or other event that prevents electronic reporting, the Company will publish its notifications in the Nikkei newspaper. Stock Exchange Listings Tokyo Stock Exchange and Nagoya Stock Exchange (First Section) Administrator of Shareholders’ Registry Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Place of Business of Administrator of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, Stock Transfer Agency Dept. Shareholders’ Registry: (1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan) Special Account Management Institution: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited* (Postal Address) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, Stock Transfer Agency Dept. (2-8-4, Izumi, Suginami-ku, Tokyo 168-0063, Japan) Telephone Inquiry 0120-782-031 * Following a share exchange effective April 1, 2010, the Company inherited the responsibility for a special account that was established on the same day for the shareholders of Aioi and NDI. As a result, the special account management institution for prior shareholders of these two companies will continue to be Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (1-4-5, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo). 100 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Group Business Schematic (As of March 31, 2018) The primary businesses undertaken by MS&AD Holdings and its Group companies (subsidiaries and affiliates), and the main Group companies undertaking each business, are listed below. ★ MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (Mainly the Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business) 〈International Businesses〉 ★ MSIG Holdings（Americas）, Inc. <U.S.A.> ★ Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance USA Inc. <U.S.A.> ★ Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company of America <U.S.A.> ★ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of America <U.S.A.> ★ Mitsui Sumitomo Seguros S/A. <BRAZIL> ★ MS Amlin plc <U.K.> and six other companies ★ Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company（Europe）, Limited <U.K.> ★ MSIG Insurance Europe AG <GERMANY> ★ MSIG Holdings（Asia）Pte. Ltd. <SINGAPORE> ★ MSIG Insurance（Singapore）Pte. Ltd. <SINGAPORE> ★ MS First Capital Insurance Limited <SINGAPORE> ★ MSIG Mingtai Insurance Co., Ltd. <TAIWAN> ★ Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance（China）Company Limited <CHINA> MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS, INC. ★ MSIG Insurance（Hong Kong）Limited <HONG KONG> ★ MSIG Insurance（Vietnam）Company Limited <VIETNAM> ● Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited <INDIA> ● Max Life Insurance Company Limited <INDIA> ★ PT. Asuransi MSIG Indonesia <INDONESIA> ● PT. Asuransi Jiwa Sinarmas MSIG <INDONESIA> ★ MSIG Insurance（Thailand）Public Company Limited <THAILAND> ● BPI/MS Insurance Corporation <PHILIPPINES> ★ MSIG Insurance（Malaysia）Bhd. <MALAYSIA> ● Hong Leong Assurance Berhad <MALAYSIA> ★ MSIG Insurance（Lao）Co., Ltd. <LAOS> 〈Financial Services Business and Risk-Related Services Business〉 ★ MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Venture Capital Co., Ltd. <JAPAN> ● Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited <JAPAN> ★ MS Financial Reinsurance Limited <BERMUDA> ★ AIOI NISSAY DOWA INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (Mainly the Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business) 〈International Businesses〉 ★ DTRIC Insurance Company, Limited <U.S.A.> ★ DTRIC Insurance Underwriters, Limited <U.S.A.> ★ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe Limited <U.K.> ★ Aioi Nissay Dowa Life Insurance of Europe AG <GERMANY> ★ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company Australia Pty Ltd <AUSTRALIA> ★ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance（China）Company Limited <CHINA> ★ MITSUI DIRECT GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business) ★ MITSUI SUMITOMO AIOI LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (Domestic Life Insurance Business) ★ MITSUI SUMITOMO PRIMARY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (Domestic Life Insurance Business) ● ReAssure Jersey One Limited <CHANNEL ISLANDS> <International Business> ★ InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc. <Financial Services Business and Risk-Related Services Business> Note: The above shows the primary consolidated subsidiaries and other entities in each business. The ★ and ● symbols indicate the following: ★: Consolidated subsidiary ●: Equity-method affiliate INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 101 Main Subsidiaries 1. CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Date of Principal Voting Rights Voting Rights Name of Company Location Incorporation Business Paid-in Capital of MS&AD of Subsidiaries Holdings (%) (%) Domestic Non-Life Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Oct. 21, 1918 ¥139,595 million 100.0 ― Insurance Domestic Non-Life Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Shibuya-ku, Tokyo June 30, 1918 ¥100,005 million 100.0 ― Insurance Domestic Non-Life Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo June 3, 1999 ¥39,106 million 89.7 ― Insurance Domestic Non-Life au Insurance Company, Limited Shibuya-ku, Tokyo Feb. 23, 2010 ¥2,400 million ― 66.6 Insurance Domestic Life Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Chuo-ku, Tokyo Aug. 8, 1996 ¥85,500 million 100.0 ― Insurance Domestic Life Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Chuo-ku, Tokyo Sept. 7, 2001 ¥41,060 million 100.0 ― Insurance MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE Venture Chuo-ku, Tokyo Dec. 6, 1990 Financial Services ¥1,000 million ― 100.0 Capital Co., Ltd. InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc. Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Jan. 4, 1993 Risk-Related Services ¥330 million 100.0 ― MSIG Holdings (Americas), Inc. New York, U.S.A. Oct. 21, 1988 International US$4,126 thousand ― 100.0 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance USA Inc. New York, U.S.A. Jan. 28, 1988 International US$5,000 thousand ― 100.0 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company of New York, U.S.A. Mar. 29, 2001 International US$5,000 thousand ― 100.0 America Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of New York, U.S.A. Jan. 11, 1994 International US$5,000 thousand ― 100.0 America DTRIC Insurance Company, Limited Honolulu, U.S.A. Dec. 12, 1978 International US$4,500 thousand ― 100.0 DTRIC Insurance Underwriters, Limited Honolulu, U.S.A. Feb. 2, 2007 International US$2,500 thousand ― 100.0 BRL619,756 Mitsui Sumitomo Seguros S/A. São Paulo, Brazil Dec. 15, 1965 International ― 100.0 thousand UK£143,168 MS Amlin plc London, U.K. Sept. 17, 1993 International ― 100.0 thousand MS Amlin Corporate Services Limited London, U.K. Aug. 1, 1988 International UK£16 thousand ― 100.0 MS Amlin Corporate Member Limited London, U.K. Sept. 19, 1994 International UK£1,700 thousand ― 100.0 MS Amlin Underwriting Limited London, U.K. Nov. 29, 1988 International UK£400 thousand ― 100.0 MSI Corporate Capital Limited London, U.K. Jan. 7, 2000 International UK£5,200 thousand ― 100.0 Amlin Insurance SE London, U.K. Jan. 4, 2016 International UK£1,164 thousand ― 100.0 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company UK£160,900 London, U.K. July 28, 1972 International ― 100.0 (Europe), Limited thousand Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company UK£39,781 London, U.K. Nov. 12, 2004 International ― 100.0 of Europe Limited thousand Zurich, CHF10,000 MS Amlin AG Aug. 19, 2010 International ― 100.0 Switzerland thousand MSIG Insurance Europe AG Koeln, Germany Apr. 20, 2012 International €84,000 thousand ― 100.0 Aioi Nissay Dowa Life Insurance of Ismaning, Dec. 8, 2005 International €5,000 thousand ― 100.0 Europe AG Germany 102 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Date of Principal Voting Rights Voting Rights Name of Company Location Incorporation Business Paid-in Capital of MS&AD of Subsidiaries Holdings (%) (%) Hamilton, MS Financial Reinsurance Limited Nov. 21, 2011 Financial Services ¥46 million ― 100.0 Bermuda Singapore, MSIG Holdings (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Sept. 23, 2004 International S$1,075 million ― 100.0 Singapore Singapore, S$333,442 MSIG Insurance（Singapore）Pte. Ltd. Sept. 23, 2004 International ― 100.0 Singapore thousand Singapore, S$26,500 MS First Capital Insurance Limited Dec. 9, 1950 International ― 97.7 Singapore thousand Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company Melbourne, Aug. 1, 2008 International A$87,800 thousand ― 100.0 Australia Pty Ltd Australia MSIG Mingtai Insurance Co., Ltd. Taipei, Taiwan Sept. 22, 1961 International NT$2,535 million ― 100.0 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance（China） RMB500,000 Shanghai, P.R.C. Sept. 6, 2007 International ― 100.0 Company Limited thousand Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance（China） RMB625,000 Tianjin, P.R.C. Jan. 23, 2009 International ― 100.0 Company Limited thousand MSIG Insurance（Hong Kong）Limited Hong Kong, Sept. 8, 2004 International HK$1,625 million ― 100.0 P.R.C. MSIG Insurance（Vietnam）Company Hanoi, Vietnam Feb. 2, 2009 International VND300,000 million ― 100.0 Limited Jakarta, PT. Asuransi MSIG Indonesia Dec. 17, 1975 International IDR100,000 million ― 80.0 Indonesia MSIG Insurance（Thailand）Public Bangkok, THB142,666 Company Limited Apr. 14, 1983 International ― 86.4 Thailand thousand Kuala Lumpur, MYR1,511 65.4 MSIG Insurance（Malaysia）Bhd. Apr. 28, 1979 International ― ［1.4］ Malaysia million MSIG Insurance（Lao）Co., Ltd. Vientiane, Laos Sept. 18, 2009 International US$2,000 thousand ― 51.0 53 other companies Notes: 1. Figures in square brackets [ ] represent the percentage of voting rights belonging to closely allied entities or entities that are in agreement with MS&AD on voting issues. 2. EQUITY-METHOD AFFILIATES Date of Principal Voting Rights Voting Rights Name of Company Location Incorporation Business Paid-in Capital of MS&AD of Subsidiaries Holdings (%) (%) Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Minato-ku, July 15, 1985 Financial Services ¥2,000 million ― 20.0 Company, Limited Tokyo Channel, UK£529 ReAssure Jersey One Limited July 22, 2011 International 15.0 ― Jersey thousand Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Chennai, Nov. 2, 2001 International INR2,988 million ― 40.0 Company Limited India Chandigarh, Max Life Insurance Company Limited July 11, 2000 International INR19,188 million ― 25.3 India Jakarta, PT. Asuransi Jiwa Sinarmas MSIG July 17, 1984 International IDR105,000 million ― 50.0 Indonesia Makati, PHP350,000 BPI/MS Insurance Corporation Oct. 1, 1965 International ― 48.5 Philippines thousand Kuala Lumpur, MYR200,000 Hong Leong Assurance Berhad Dec. 20, 1982 International ― 30.0 Malaysia thousand Eight other companies INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 103 History of the MS&AD Insurance Group in Japan Major events in the insurance industry 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Start of Japan’s Diversification Development of Deregulation of Big Bang (financial of insurance original products premium rate system reform) products 1996 ● Revision of the Insurance 1998 ● Abolition of obligation for members to use 2001 Business Act the premium rates calculated by the Rating ● Ban on OTC bank ・Mutual entry into non-life and life insurance Organization (Transitional Measures: 2 years) sales of insurance business by subsidiaries partially lifted ・Reform of Insurance Rating Organization system ・Introduction of products and premium rates notification system 1997 ● Approval of risk-subdivision-type automobile insurance History of the MS&AD Insurance Group In 1918, this company was established as Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd., with the support of a wide range of companies from many industries centered on Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Founded in Mitsui Marine & Fire Besides beginning direct underwriting operations in Thailand in 1934 and undertaking other moves to expand its overseas 1918 Insurance Co., Ltd. sales systems from an early stage, the company initiated fund procurement through the issuance of depositary receipts in London from 1964 and, otherwise, responded to the era of internationalization. It merged with Shin Nippon Fire in 1941 and with Mitsui Fire in 1944. In 1991, it changed its name to Mitsui Marine & Fire. This company was established as Osaka-based Osaka Insurance, in 1893 by interests related to the copper and trading industries. Another predecessor company, Tokyo-based Fuso Marine, was established in 1917. Its management was later The Sumitomo Founded in transferred to Sumitomo, and it was renamed Sumitomo Marine. Osaka Insurance and Sumitomo Marine merged in 1944, Marine & Fire creating Osaka Sumitomo Marine. In 1954, the company’s head office was moved to Tokyo, and the company’s name was 1893 Insurance Co., Ltd. changed to Sumitomo Marine. In response to Japanese companies’ moves to establish overseas operations, it progressively built up an overseas sales system. Established in 1918 as Tokyo Dosan Fire, which was engaged in basic fire insurance business, this company merged with The Dai-Tokyo Toshin Fire, which was engaged in general fire insurance business, in 1944 to create Dai Tokyo Fire. From the early 1960s, Founded in Fire & Marine Dai Tokyo Fire proactively worked to expand its automobile insurance business. It built one of the industry’s top claims 1918 handling systems in automobile insurance and organized a network of car repair and maintenance shops, thereby earning the Insurance Co., Ltd. epithet “Dai Tokyo of car repair and maintenance agencies”. Established in 1897 as Otaru Cargo Fire, this company merged with Okura Fire of the Okura zaibatsu in 1944. In 1945, it The Chiyoda merged with the former Chiyoda Fire, which was established as a sister company of Chiyoda Life, and it changed its name to Founded in Fire & Marine Chiyoda Fire in 1946. After the war, Chiyoda Fire cooperated with Tokai Bank and built strong ties with the financial industry in 1897 the greater Nagoya region. After building ties with Toyota Motor Sales Co., Ltd., it developed as a company with particularly Insurance Co., Ltd. strong operations in automobile insurance. The Dowa Established in 1897 as Yokohama Fire, it merged with three companies based in the Kansai region – Kobe Marine, Kyodo Founded in Fire, and Asahi Marine – in 1944 to create Dowa Fire. After the war, it redeveloped aviation insurance and developed satellite Fire & Marine 1897 insurance products, earning a reputation as being particularly strong in the aerospace field, and it maintained one of the Insurance Co., Ltd. industry’s top levels of financial soundness. Established in Nissay General 1996 Insurance Co., Ltd. Business started in Mitsui Direct General 2000 Insurance Co., Ltd. Established in Mitsui Mirai Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 1996 Established in Sumitomo Marine Yu-Yu Life 1996 Insurance Co., Ltd. Established in Dai-Tokyo Shiawase Life 1996 Insurance Co., Ltd. Established in Chiyoda Kasai Ebisu Life 1996 Insurance Co., Ltd. Note: Because the 1996 Revision of the Insurance Business Act removed the prohibition of life and non-life insurance company moves to enter the other insurance sector through subsidiaries, Mitsui Marine & Fire, Sumitomo Marine & Fire, Dai-Tokyo Fire & Marine, and Chiyoda Fire & Marine, each established a life insurance subsidiary and began engaging in life insurance business. 104 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section 2002 2010 2014 2016 End of Japan’s Second industry realignment, Strengthening of Financial Big Bang First industry realignment policyholder protection/deregulation 2007 2010 2014 2016 ● Implementation of Financial ● Implementation ● Revision of the ● Enforcement of Instruments and Exchange Act of the Insurance Act Insurance the Insurance ● OTC bank sales of insurance Business Act Business Act fully liberalized Established in 2008 2010 Establishment of the Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings (MSIGHD) MS&AD Insurance Group Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd., Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., Ltd., Company name changed in 2010 Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd., Inaugurated in 2001 and Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. MS&AD Insurance became the subsidiaries of MSIGHD. Mitsui Sumitomo Group Holdings, Inc. Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Inaugurated in 2001 Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd. Inaugurated in 2010 Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Inaugurated in 2001 Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Inaugurated in 2001 Inaugurated in 2011 Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. Inaugurated in 2001 Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Company name changed in 2011 Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Business started in 2002 Company name changed in 2005 Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Mitsui Sumitomo CitiInsurance Life MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 105 Group Network and History of International Business (As of July 1, 2018) Overseas branches and offices Branches Offices Overseas subsidiaries and affiliates Brussels Saint Petersburg Branches and offices of London Oslo overseas subsidiaries and affiliates Amsterdam Derby Underwriting agents for the Head Office and others Copenhagen Dublin Cologne Warsaw Ismaning St. Peter Port Bratislava St. Helier Paris Milan Bologna Zurich Madrid Gibraltar Rome Moscow Almaty New Delhi Dubai Gurugram Chennai Abu Dhabi Saipan Expansion of Non-Life Insurance Business Mumbai Bangalore ▶Business expansion through M&A Tumon (Guam) Acquired the Asian non-life insurance business of Colombo 2004 U.K.-based AVIVA 2005 Acquired Taiwan-based Mingtai 2015 Acquired U.K.-based Box Innovation Group 2016 Acquired U.K.-based Amlin 2017 Acquired First Capital (Singapore) Expansion of Life Insurance Business Sydney ▶Expansion and diversification of international Johannesburg Melbourne life insurance business 2010 Investment in Hong Leong Assurance Berhad (Malaysia) ▶Business initiations through capital investments in local markets 2011 Investment in Hong Leong MSIG Takaful Berhad (Malaysia) Became the first Japanese non-life insurance 2000 company to establish a Lloyd’s syndicate 2011 Investment in PT. Asuransi Jiwa Sinarmas MSIG (Indonesia) 2000 Began Toyota Retail Business in Germany and France 2012 Investment in Max Life Insurance Company Limited (India) 2012 Established a company in Germany Investment in Challenger Limited (Australia) 2017 2015 Invested in Ceylinco Insurance (Sri Lanka) Investment in ReAssure (U.K.) Developing business in major countries/regions 1924 1934 1956 1957 1958 1962 1966 1969 1970 U.K. グルグラム U.S./ Singapore/ Thailand U.K. Malaysia Australia Indonesia New Zealand (Office)* Hong Kong チェンナイ Germany Items not marked with * indicate the year in which a direct insurance license was acquired. 106 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Net Written Premiums and Geographical Dispersion Americas Americas Americas 17% 26％ 29％ Asia Asia ¥461.6 Asia ¥892.7 39% ¥940.0 36％ Europe billion billion billion 56% 27% Europe 35％ FY2015 (Results) Europe 35％ FY2017 (Results) FY2018 (Forecast) Warren Detroit Toronto Chicago New York Cincinnati Hamilton Los Angeles Trenton Plano Dover Dallas Atlanta Honolulu Irapuato Queretaro Miami Mexico City Beijing Dalian Panama City Tianjin Seoul Qingdao Bogota Wuxi Shanghai Suzhou Hangzhou Guangzhou Taipei Macau Lima Shenzhen Hanoi Hong Kong Yangon São Paulo Vientiane Manila Bangkok Phnom Penh Ho Chi Minh Buenos Aires Kuala Lumpur Labuan Bandar Seri Begawan Petaling Jaya Singapore Jakarta Auckland 1974 1977 1978 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2010 2015 Myanmar/ China Brazil Philippines France Vietnam Taiwan India Cambodia Laos South Africa (Shanghai) (Office)* INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 107 Global Network (As of July 1, 2018) ☆：Overseas Branches ★：Overseas Offices ●：Major Overseas Subsidiaries and Affiliates △：Major Branches or Offices of Overseas Subsidiaries and Affiliates ■：Underwriting Agents for the Head Office ASIA AND OCEANIA MS&AD Holdings ● Interisk Asia Pte. Ltd. ● MSIG Holdings (Asia) Pte. Ltd. SINGAPORE MSI ● MSIG Insurance （Singapore）Pte. Ltd. ● MS First Capital Insurance Limited ADI ● ADI Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Services Asia Pte. Ltd. MS&AD Holdings ● InterRisk Asia（Thailand）Co., Ltd. ☆ Thailand Branch ● MSIG Insurance （Thailand）Public Company Limited ● MSI Holding（Thailand）Company Limited MSI ● MSIG Service and Adjusting （Thailand）Company Limited THAILAND ● Calm Sea Service Company Limited ● MBTS Broking Services Company Limited ★ Bangkok Representative Oﬃce ● Aioi Bangkok Insurance Public Company Limited ADI ● Bangkok Chayoratn Company, Limited ● Bangkok Chayolife Company, Limited ● MSIG Insurance （Malaysia）Bhd. ● MSIG Berhad MALAYSIA MSI ● Hong Leong Assurance Berhad ● Hong Leong MSIG Takaful Berhad PHILIPPINES MSI ● BPI/MS Insurance Corporation ● PT. Asuransi MSIG Indonesia INDONESIA MSI ● PT. Asuransi Jiwa Sinarmas MSIG REPUBLIC OF KOREA MSI ☆ Korea Branch MS&AD Holdings ● InterRisk Consulting（Shanghai）Co., Ltd. ● Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance （China）Company Limited △ Guangdong Branch Shenzhen Marketing Service Department △ Beijing Branch △ Jiangsu Branch Suzhou Marketing Service Department MSI PEOPLE’S △ Shanghai Marketing Division REPUBLIC ★ China General Representative Oﬃce OF CHINA ★ Dalian Representative Oﬃce ★ Qingdao Representative Oﬃce ★ China General Representative Oﬃce ★ Guangzhou Representative Oﬃce ADI ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance（China）Company Limited △ Zhejiang Branch ● Guang Ai Insurance Brokers Ltd. MSI ● MSIG Insurance （Hong Kong）Limited HONG KONG ● Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management (Hong Kong) Limited ADI ★ Hong Kong Representative Oﬃce MACAU MSI △ MSIG Insurance (Hong Kong) Limited Macau Branch 108 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section MSI ● MSIG Mingtai Insurance Co., Ltd. TAIWAN ADI ★ Taipei Representative Oﬃce ● MSIG Insurance （Vietnam）Company Limited VIETNAM MSI △ MSIG Insurance (Vietnam) Company Limited, Ho Chi Minh City Branch ● Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited ● Cholamandalam MS Risk Services Limited INDIA MSI ★ New Delhi Representative Oﬃce ● Max Life Insurance Company Limited MYANMAR MSI ★ Yangon Representative Oﬃce CAMBODIA MSI ● Asia Insurance（Cambodia）Plc. LAO PEOPLE’S ● MSIG Insurance （Lao）Co., Ltd. MSI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC ☆ Oceania Branch MSI ★ Oceania Branch Melbourne Oﬃce AUSTRALIA ☆ Australian Branch ★ Sydney Representative Oﬃce ADI ★ Melbourne Representative Oﬃce ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company Australia Pty Ltd MSI ★ Oceania Branch New Zealand Oﬃce NEW ZEALAND ☆ New Zealand Branch ADI ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Management New Zealand Limited THE AMERICAS ★ New York Representative Oﬃce ● MSIG Holdings (Americas), Inc. ● Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company of America ● Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance USA Inc. ● Mitsui Sumitomo Marine Management (U.S.A.), Inc. △ New York Oﬃce △ Warren Oﬃce △ Los Angeles Oﬃce △ Cincinnati Oﬃce △ Atlanta Oﬃce △ Chicago Oﬃce MSI △ Detroit Oﬃce △ Dallas Oﬃce ● MSI Risk Management Services, Inc. ● Seven Hills Insurance Agency, LLC ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of America U.S.A. △ Kentucky Oﬃce △ Detroit Oﬃce △ Dallas Oﬃce ● MSI GuaranteedWeather, LLC ● Vortex Insurance Agency, LLC ● Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management (New York) Inc. ★ New York Representative Oﬃce ★ Honolulu Representative Oﬃce ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Services USA Corporation ● Advanced Connectivity, LLC ADI ● Connected Analytic Services, LLC ● Toyota Insurance Management Solutions USA, LLC ● DTRIC Insurance Company, Limited ● DTRIC Insurance Underwriters, Limited ● DTRIC Management Company, Limited INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 109 GUAM ■ Takagi & Associates, Inc. ADI (U.S.A.) SAIPAN ADI ■ Takagi & Associates, Inc. Saipan Branch (U.S.A.) ★ Toronto Representative Oﬃce c/o Chubb Insurance Company of Canada CANADA MSI ■ Chubb Insurance Company of Canada MS&AD Holdings ● Interisk Global Management (Bermuda) Limited BERMUDA ● SPAC Insurance （Bermuda）Limited MSI ● MSI GuaranteedWeather Trading Limited ● MS Financial Reinsurance Limited CAYMAN MSI ● SLI Cayman Limited MEXICO MSI △ MSIG Holdings (Americas), Inc. Mexican Representative Office c/o Mapfre Tepeyac, S.A. PANAMA MSI ★ Panama Representative Oﬃce ● Mitsui Sumitomo Seguros S/A. BRAZIL MSI ● Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company Limited-Escritório de Representação no Brasil Ltda. ★ São Paulo Representative Oﬃce COLOMBIA MSI ★ Bogotá Representative Oﬃce PERU MSI ★ Lima Representative Oﬃce ARGENTINA MSI ★ Buenos Aires Representative Oﬃce EUROPE, THE MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA ★ London Representative Oﬃce ● MS Amlin plc ● MS Amlin Corporate Services Limited ● MS Amlin Underwriting Limited ● MS Amlin Corporate Member Limited MSI ● Amlin Insurance SE ● Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company （Europe), Limited △ Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company (Europe), Limited Derby Oﬃce ● MSIG Corporate Services (Europe) Limited ● Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management (London) Limited UNITED ★ London Representative Oﬃce KINGDOM ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Europe Limited ● Aioi Nissay Dowa UK Limited ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Management Limited ● Toyota Insurance Management plc ADI ● Box Innovation Group Limited ● Insure The Box Limited △ Insure The Box Limited UK Branch ● ITB Services Limited ● ITB Web Limited ● ITB Telematics Solutions LLP ● ITB Premium Finance Limited IRELAND MSI ● MSI Insurance Management (Ireland) Limited ● MSIG Insurance Europe AG MSI △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG Region Germany GERMANY △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc German Branch ADI △ Toyota Insurance Management plc German Branch ● Aioi Nissay Dowa Life Insurance of Europe AG 110 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section MSI △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG The Netherlands Branch NETHERLANDS ADI △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc Netherlands Branch MSI △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG France Branch FRANCE ★ Paris Representative Oﬃce ADI △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc French Branch △ Toyota Insurance Management plc French Branch △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG Belgium Branch MSI △ MSIG Corporate Services (Europe) Limited Belgium Branch BELGIUM ★ Brussels Representative Oﬃce ADI △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc Belgian Branch △ Toyota Insurance Management plc Belgian Branch SWITZERLAND MSI ● MS Amlin AG MSI △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG Spain Branch SPAIN △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc Spanish Branch ADI △ Toyota Insurance Management plc Spanish Branch MSI △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG Italy Branch ITALY △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc Italian Branch ADI △ Toyota Insurance Management plc Italian Branch ● Top Class Insurance S. r. l. SLOVAKIA MSI △ MSIG Insurance Europe AG Slovakia Branch ★ Moscow Representative Oﬃce MSI ★ St. Petersburg Representative Oﬃce RUSSIA ★ Moscow Representative Oﬃce ADI ● LLC Toyota Insurance Management (Insurance Brokers) ● LLC Toyota Insurance Management (Insurance Agency) NORWAY ADI △ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe plc Norwegian Branch UNITED ARAB ★ Dubai Representative Oﬃce MSI EMIRATES ★ Abu Dhabi Representative Oﬃce REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA MSI △ Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company（Europe）, Limited Johannesburg Representative Oﬃce KAZAKHSTAN ADI ● Toyota Insurance Management (Insurance Broker) LLP DENMARK ADI △ Toyota Insurance Management plc Danish Branch POLAND ADI △ Toyota Insurance Management plc Polish Branch BAILIWICK OF GUERNSEY MSI ● Arena Holdings Limited JERSEY MS&AD Holdings ● ReAssure Jersey One Limited INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 111 Credit Ratings Credit Ratings for Domestic Insurance Companies This section contains information about credit ratings assigned to the following companies in the Group. (As of July 1, 2018) Rating Rating MS&AD Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Nissay Dowa Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Agency Assigned Holdings Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance Co., Ltd. Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Financial Strength A+ A+ A+ A+ Rating ー (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) Standard & Long-Term Issuer A+ A+ Poor’s Credit Rating ー (Stable) (Stable) ー ー Short-Term Issuer A－1 A－1 Credit Rating ー ー ー Insurance Financial A1 A1 Strength Rating ー (Stable) (Stable) ー ー Moody's Long-Term Issuer A1 Rating ー (Stable) ー ー ー Rating and AA AA Issuer Rating ー (Stable) (Stable) ー ー Investment Information, Insurance Claims AA AA Inc. (R&I) Paying Ability ー ー ー (Stable) (Stable) Ability to Pay AA+ Insurance Claims ー ー (Stable) ー ー Japan Credit AA+ AA+ Long-Term Issuer AA Rating Agency, Rating (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) ー ー Ltd. (JCR) Short-Term Rating (Commercial Paper) ー J－1+ J－1+ ー ー Financial Strength A+ A+ Rating ー (Stable) (Stable) ー ー A.M. Best Issuer Credit aa aa Rating ー (Stable) (Stable) ー ー Credit Ratings for Overseas Insurance Companies The table below indicates information about credit ratings of overseas subsidiaries. (As of July 1, 2018) Rating Agency Overseas Subsidiaries Credit Rating Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co.（Europe）, Ltd. MSIG Insurance（Hong Kong）Ltd. MSIG Insurance（Singapore）Pte. Ltd. Financial Strength Rating A+ (Stable)*1 MSIG Insurance Europe AG Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe Ltd. Financial Strength Rating A+ (Stable)*2 Standard & Poor's Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company of America Financial Strength Rating A+ (Stable) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance USA, Inc. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance（China）Co., Ltd. MSIG Mingtai Insurance Co., Ltd. Financial Strength Rating A (Stable) MS Amlin AG Amlin Insurance SE Moody’s Syndicate 2001 Insurance Financial Strength Rating A1 (Stable) MS Amlin AG Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company of America Financial Strength Rating A+ (Stable) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance USA, Inc. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of America Issuer Credit Rating aa (Stable) Financial Strength Rating A (Stable) Syndicate 2001 Issuer Credit Rating a＋ (Stable) A.M. Best Financial Strength Rating A (Stable) MS Amlin AG Issuer Credit Rating a+ (Stable) DTRIC Insurance Company Ltd. Financial Strength Rating A (Stable) DTRIC Insurance Underwriters, Ltd. Issuer Credit Rating a (Stable) Financial Strength Rating A(Stable) Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance（China）Co., Ltd. Issuer Credit Rating a(Stable) *1 Applicable to the same ratings of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance with the guarantee on insurance/reinsurance policies, issued by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (the issuer of the guarantee, the “Guarantor”). The obligations of the Guarantor under the guarantee rank pari passu with all other unsecured indebtedness of the Guarantor. The guarantee is unconditional and covers the subsidiaries' obligations of payment and not collection. *2 Applicable to the same rating of Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance with the guarantee on insurance/reinsurance policies, issued by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance (the issuer of the guarantee, the Guarantor ). The obligations of the Guarantor under the guarantee rank pari passu with all other unsecured indebtedness of the Guarantor. The guarantee is unconditional and covers the subsidiaries' obligations of payment and not collection. 112 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Company Overview Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI) President: Noriyuki Hara (concurrently serving as representative director and executive officer of MS&AD Holdings) Date Established: October 1918 Responsible for the non-life insurance business, which is a core business of the Number of Employees: 14,572 (As of March 31, 2018) MS&AD Insurance Group, MSI is exercising its comprehensive capabilities to Head Office: 9, Kanda-Surugadai 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo offer insurance and financial services globally. URL https://www.ms-ins.com/english/ Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated) (¥ billion) FY2018 Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Forecast) Net premiums written 1,384.5 1,445.8 1,507.4 1,469.6 1,500.3 1,501.0 Growth rate of net premiums written 5.3% 4.4% 4.3% (2.5%) 2.1% 0.0% Net loss ratio 65.1% 62.2% 58.9% 61.2% 61.6% 61.2% Net expense ratio 32.0% 31.8% 31.0% 31.2% 31.3% 32.0% Combined ratio 97.1% 94.0% 89.9% 92.4% 92.9% 93.2% Underwriting income/(loss) (7.3) 14.0 19.1 81.7 84.4 77.0 Investment income 125.1 158.3 152.8 139.4 182.5 118.5 Ordinary profit 101.9 171.3 167.8 215.5 262.5 188.0 Net income 58.0 89.1 113.9 164.5 198.2 141.0 Net assets 1,309.6 1,732.7 1,527.4 1,645.0 1,877.0 Total assets 6,098.0 6,790.0 6,786.5 6,777.0 7,098.2 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) 1,165.9 1,633.7 1,251.1 1,294.0 1,419.7 Solvency margin ratio (non-consolidated) 600.3% 651.5% 585.9% 657.9% 701.1% Number of employees 14,188 14,859 14,691 14,650 14,572 Notes: 1. Net premiums written, net loss ratio, net expense ratio, and combined ratio figures are presented exclusive of Good Result Return premiums of propriety automobile insurance product “ModoRich,” which contains a special clause related to premium adjustment and refund at maturity. 2. Net loss ratio = (net claims paid + loss adjustment expenses) ÷ net premiums written × 100 3. Net expense ratio = (commissions and collection expenses + operating expenses and general and administrative expenses for underwriting) ÷ net premiums written × 100 4. Combined ratio = net loss ratio + net expense ratio 5. Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) represents the difference before tax effects between the fair value and the acquisition cost (including the amortized cost) of available for-sale securities with practically determinable fair value. It includes monetary claims bought, money trusts, and others which are accounted for as investment in securities. Principal Management Indicators Net Premiums Written Composition by Class of Insurance (FY2017) (¥ billion) Other Fire and Allied 1,550 ¥251.8 billion ¥196.7 billion 1,507.4 1,500.3 1,501.0 1,500 1,469.6 16.8% 13.1% 1,450 Compulsory Total Marine Automobile Liability ¥1,500.3 billion ¥60.4 billion 1,400 ¥184.5 billion 12.3% 4.0% 1,350 Automobile Personal Accident 1,300 ¥659.2 billion ¥147.6 billion 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Forecast) (FY) 43.9% 9.8% Combined Ratio Ordinary Profit / Net Income （%） Combined Ratio (¥ billion) Ordinary Profit Net Income 110.0 300 262.5 250 215.5 200 198.2 188.0 100.0 167.8 164.5 93.2 141.0 92.4 92.9 150 89.9 113.9 90.0 100 50 80.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 113 Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Company Overview Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (ADI) President: Yasuzo Kanasugi (concurrently serving as representative director and executive officer of MS&AD Holdings) Date Established: June 1918 Responsible for the non-life insurance business, which is a core business of the MS&AD Number of Employees: 13,287 (As of March 31, 2018) Insurance Group, ADI leverages its strong relationships with the Toyota Group and the Nippon Head Office: 28-1, Ebisu 1-chome, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo Life Group and engages in business based on close relationships with local communities. URL https://www.aioinissaydowa.co.jp (Japanese language only) Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated) (¥ billion) FY2018 Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Forecast) Net premiums written 1,144.6 1,160.8 1,192.0 1,200.5 1,222.0 1,225.0 Growth rate of net premiums written 3.8% 1.4% 2.7% 0.7% 1.8% 0.2% Net loss ratio 65.0% 63.2% 59.2% 59.1% 59.2% 62.4% Net expense ratio 34.5% 35.0% 34.3% 33.5% 33.4% 34.9% Combined ratio 99.5% 98.2% 93.5% 92.6% 92.6% 97.3% Underwriting income/(loss) (28.8) 14.7 24.8 39.5 4.8 31.0 Investment income 53.0 51.5 34.9 32.2 (1.9) 33.5 Ordinary profit 27.8 68.9 61.7 75.1 5.6 67.0 Net income 13.1 39.4 31.0 50.3 15.6 36.0 Net assets 600.1 796.9 745.1 793.0 781.0 Total assets 3,257.1 3,470.7 3,418.5 3,498.2 3,486.6 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) 317.6 555.8 473.7 505.3 578.7 Solvency margin ratio (non-consolidated) 754.0% 804.9% 829.3% 851.6% 784.0% Number of employees 12,812 12,973 13,260 13,052 13,287 Notes: 1. Net loss ratio= (net claims paid + loss adjustment expenses) ÷ net premiums written × 100 2. Net expenses ratio= (commissions and collection expenses + operating expenses and general and administrative expenses for underwriting) ÷ net premiums written × 100 3. Combined ratio= net loss ratio + net expense ratio 4. Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) represents the difference before tax effects between the fair value and the acquisition cost (including the amortized cost) of available-for-sale securities with practically determinable fair value. It includes monetary claims bought, money trusts, and others which are accounted for as investment in securities. Principal Management Indicators Net Premiums Written Composition by Class of Insurance (FY2017) (¥ billion) Other Fire and Allied 1,250 ¥127.6 billion ¥174.4 billion 1,222.0 1,225.0 1,200.5 10.4% 14.3% 1,200 1,192.0 Compulsory Total Marine Automobile Liability ¥1,222.0 billion ¥7.4 billion ¥167.0 billion 1,150 13.7% 0.6% Automobile Personal Accident 1,100 ¥684.0 billion ¥61.3 billion 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) 56.0% 5.0% Combined Ratio Ordinary Profit / Net Income （%） Combined Ratio (¥ billion) Ordinary Profit Net Income 110.0 80 75.1 70 67.0 61.7 60 100.0 97.3 50.3 50 93.5 92.6 92.6 40 36.0 31.0 30 90.0 20 15.6 10 5.6 80.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) 114 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Company Overview President: Ryuhei Funaki (Mitsui Direct General) Date Established: June 1999 Number of Employees: 571 (As of March 31, 2018) Mitsui Direct General is a non-life insurance company that specializes in directly Head Office: 5-3, Kouraku 1-chome, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo selling individual voluntary automobile insurance to customers via the Internet URL https://www.mitsui-direct.co.jp and phone calls. (Japanese language only) Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated) (¥ billion) FY2018 Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Forecast) Net premiums written 35.5 35.0 36.5 37.6 37.8 38.0 Growth rate of net premiums written 0.8% (1.4%) 4.3% 3.0% 0.6% 0.4% Net loss ratio 76.3% 78.9% 79.0% 75.9% 73.0% 73.7% Net expense ratio 20.7% 22.8% 21.9% 22.0% 23.3% 23.7% Combined ratio 97.0% 101.7% 100.9% 97.9% 96.3% 97.4% Underwriting income/(loss) 0.14 (4.35) (5.45) (1.00) 0.38 0.4 Ordinary profit/(loss) 0.29 (4.23) (5.37) (0.95) 0.45 0.44 Net income/(loss) 0.23 (4.33) (5.42) (1.00) 0.32 Net assets 11.2 6.8 6.4 13.3 13.6 Total assets 46.5 46.4 51.0 59.9 61.4 Solvency margin ratio (non-consolidated) 420.8% 255.9% 230.4% 431.4% 457.5% Number of employees 528 572 563 581 571 Notes: 1. Net loss ratio= (net claims paid + loss adjustment expenses) ÷ net premiums written × 100 2. Net expenses ratio= (commissions and collection expenses + operating expenses and general and administrative expenses for underwriting) ÷ net premiums written × 100 3. Combined ratio= net loss ratio + net expenses ratio Principal Management Indicators Net Premiums Written Composition by Class of Insurance (FY2017) (¥ billion) Personal Accident 40.0 ¥0.10 billion 39.0 0.3% 38.0 37.6 37.8 38.0 Total 37.0 36.5 Compulsory ¥37.87 billion 36.0 Automobile Liability Automobile ¥0.50 billion ¥37.26 billion 35.0 1.3% 98.4% 34.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) Combined Ratio Ordinary Profit (Loss) / Net Income (Loss) (per our share) （%） Combined Ratio (¥ billion) Ordinary Profit (Loss) Net Income (Loss) 110.0 1 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2 0 100.9 100.0 97.9 96.3 -3 -0.9 -0.9 -4 90.0 -4.3 -5 -5.3 80.0 -6 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 115 Domestic Life Insurance Business Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Company Overview President: Hitoshige Tanbo (MSI Aioi Life) Date Established: August 1996 Number of Employees: 2,609 (As of March 31, 2018) MSI Aioi Life is a life insurance company that offers protection-type life insurance products, while Head Office: 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo leveraging the Group’s marketing network and customer base. The company is realizing a growth URL http://www.msa-life.co.jp model that involves a combination of strategies to utilize unique marketing channels. (Japanese language only) Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated) (¥ billion) FY2018 Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Forecast) Amount of new policies 2,672.2 2,481.1 2,423.3 2,377.1 2,639.5 2,250.6 Amount of policies in force 21,105.0 21,894.0 22,576.0 23,214.2 23,806.8 23,884.5 Annualized premiums of policies in force 333.5 353.4 375.7 401.0 412.3 428.7 Ordinary profit 17.4 15.9 18.6 16.1 16.9 16.0 Core profit 15.3 16.1 19.4 18.6 12.8 Risk differential gains/(losses) 45.6 50.3 51.5 55.8 59.9 Expenses differential gains/(losses) (18.3) (22.7) (16.3) (14.6) (15.3) Investment income differential gains/(losses) 1.1 1.3 2.0 (0.2) (2.2) Net income 6.6 4.4 6.0 4.5 5.2 5.0 Net assets 131.9 169.1 199.7 276.2 264.5 Total assets 2,636.0 3,009.2 3,229.0 3,619.1 3,869.7 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) 89.1 132.6 165.2 126.3 107.5 Embedded value (EEV) 588.1 647.8 595.8 794.2 835.5 865.0 Solvency margin ratio 1,264.9% 1,429.9% 1,598.4% 1,893.2% 1,726.7% Number of employees 2,421 2,544 2,554 2,595 2,609 1. Amount of new policies, amount of policies in force, and annualized premiums of policies in force are the total of individual insurance and individual annuity insurance. 2. Core profit is an insurance business profitability indicator that is calculated by deducting capital gains/(losses) and non-recurring income and losses from ordinary profit. 3. Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) represents the difference before tax effects between the fair value and the acquisition cost (including the amortized cost) of available-for-sale securities with practically determinable fair value. It includes monetary claims bought, money trusts, and others which are accounted for as investment in securities. Principal Management Indicators Annualized Premiums of Policies in Force Weight by Type of Sales Channel (FY2017) (¥ billion) 450 428.7 412.3 Life Insurance 401.0 Professionals, Financial 400 Institution Agents, etc. 375.7 29.9% Cross-Selling 350 Channels Direct (non-life Marketing, etc. insurance agents) 300 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 7.4% 62.7% (Forecast) Increase in Embedded Value (EEV) Ordinary Profit / Net Income (Refer to the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” on P. 92) (¥ billion) 198.4 (¥ billion) Ordinary Profit Net Income 200 20 18.6 16.9 150 16.1 16.0 15 100 50 41.3 10 29.4 0 6.0 5.2 5.0 5 4.5 -50 -52.0 -100 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) 116 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Domestic Life Insurance Business Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Company Overview President: Yasuhiro Nagai (MSI Primary Life) Date Established: September 2001 Number of Employees: 394 (As of March 31, 2018) Specializing in over-the-counter sales via financial institutions, Head Office: Yaesu First Financial Building, 3-7, Yaesu 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo MSI Primary Life is a life insurance company that offers asset-building-type URL http://www.ms-primary.com products centered on individual annuity insurance and whole life insurance. (Japanese language only) Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated) (¥ billion) FY2018 Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Forecast) Premiums income 826.4 1,054.0 1,299.4 1,071.1 1,015.6 1,000.0 Amount of new policies 800.5 1,024.7 1,262.6 1,032.2 1,015.6 1,013.6 Amount of policies in force 4,024.3 4,421.0 4,910.8 5,680.7 6,061.8 6,570.0 Ordinary profit 39.8 17.7 39.9 57.6 28.9 27.4 Core profit / (loss) 58.3 (33.4) 14.3 52.7 8.8 Core profit + Capital gains 57.6 24.4 41.9 58.9 30.0 Net income 17.9 12.4 17.8 20.7 29.2 17.0 Net assets 89.2 109.8 125.0 137.7 164.0 Total assets 4,163.6 4,662.0 5,191.2 5,838.0 6,201.7 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) 1.0 15.4 14.6 10.4 11.3 Embedded value (EEV) 234.8 310.2 333.8 375.3 416.2 Solvency margin ratio 1,004.6% 879.7% 985.5% 1,030.5% 992.9% Number of employees 344 363 381 384 394 Notes: 1. The amount of new policies and amount of policies in force are the totals of individual insurance and individual annuity insurance. 2. Core profit is an insurance business profitability indicator that is calculated by deducting capital gains/(losses) and non-recurring income and losses from ordinary profit. In this business, the sum of core profit and capital gains (losses) provides a more appropriate indicator of actual profit for the period. As for MSI Primary Life, the sum of core profit and capital gains(losses) provides a more appropriate indicator of actual profit for the period instead of core profit(loss). Meanwhile, the method for disclosing the breakdown of ordinary profit was revised effective from FY2017. As a result of retroactive adjustments to FY2016 data, core profit (fundamental profit) for FY2016 has been revised. 3. Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities (before tax effects) represent the difference before tax effects between the fair value and the acquisition cost (including the amortized cost) of available-for-sale securities with practically determinable fair value. It includes monetary claims bought, money trusts, and others which are accounted for as investment in securities. Principal Management Indicators Premiums Income Weight by Type of Sales Channel (FY2017) (¥ billion) Fixed Variable 1,400 1,299.4 Japan Post Bank, 1,200 Securities Firms, etc. 1,071.1 1,015.6 1,000.0 1,000 16% 800 600 400 Regional Banks, Mega Banks, 200 Trust Banks, etc. Shinkin Banks 0 (FY) 31% 53% 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Forecast) Amount of Policies in Force Ordinary Profit / Net Income (¥ billion) Fixed Variable (¥ billion) Ordinary Profit Net Income 7,000 6,570.0 60 57.6 6,061.8 6,000 5,680.7 50 4,910.8 5,000 39.9 40 4,000 30 28.9 29.2 27.4 3,000 20.7 20 17.8 17.0 2,000 1,000 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 117 International Business Company Overview MS Amlin plc Chief Executive: Simon Beale (concurrently serving as Executive Officer of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance) Date Established: September 17, 1993 MS Amlin is an insurance holding company that comprises three core Number of Employees: 2,035 (As of March 31, 2018) businesses̶Lloyd’s, Reinsurance and European Primary Insurance. The company is a leading Head Office: The Leadenhall Building, 122 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 4AG, U.K. insurer that provides both insurance and reinsurance services around the world. URL https://www.msamlin.com Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated) （£ million） Principal Indicators Item FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net Premiums Written and Combined Ratio Net premiums written 3,093 2,955 3,022 Net Premiums Written Combined Ratio（％） Growth rate of net premiums written (4.5%) 2.3% NPW of former MSI Lloyd's & Reinsurance business （£ million） （% ） EI claims ratio 64% 97% 3,500 150 EI expense ratio 32% 36% 3,093 2,955 3,022 Combined ratio 96% 133% 3,000 439 140 133% Underwriting income/ 2,500 2,392 2,654 130 (loss) 107 (965) 2,000 120 Investment income 117 195 1,500 110 Net income 83 (759) 124 *1 Figures for FY2016 include figures for MSI’s Lloyd’s and Reinsurance businesses that were 1,000 100 consolidated into MS Amlin at the end of FY2016. 96%※ *2 EI expense ratio and EI combined ratio are calculated by taking into account foreign 500 90 exchange gains/losses (included in underwriting profit) in accordance with calculation in UK. 89% *3 MS Amlin adopts the accounting method where securities market value fluctuations are 80 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) reflected in the profit-loss statement. (Forecast) *After consolidation of MSI’s Lloyd’s and Reinsurance businesses into MS Amlin Gross Premiums Written by Class Gross Premiums Written by Geography* Specialty Personal Accident 2% Others UK 8% Property Catastrophe Reinsurance 20% 22% Casualty FY2017 23% FY2017 and Other Marine & Aviation Gross Premiums Gross Premiums 19% Written for Insurance Written for Motor £3,407.1 18% Europe £3,407.1 North America Insurance million Property Insurance 28% million 30% 12% 18% Integration of MSI Lloyd's Origin and History business and Reinsurance business 2016 Acquisition by MS&AD MS Amlin plc. 2016 2016 Formation of Office in Hong Kong 2015 2015 2014 2014 Formation of Offices Acquisition of ReatsMarine 2013 in Miami, Dubai, and 2013 Shanghai 2012 Acquisition of J R Clare and 2012 Formation of Amlin Reinsurance Lead Yacht Underwriters 2011 2011 Managers Inc. in the USA 2010 Acquisition of Fortis Corporate 2010 Insurance and Crowe Livestock Acquisition of AUA Insolvency Risk Services 2009 2009 Formation of Amlin Re Europe in Switzerland 2008 Formation of 2008 Amlin Singapore Acquisition of Anglo French Underwriters 2007 2007 2005 2005 Merger of Angerstein’s and Murray Lawrence Amlin plc. Formation of Amlin Bermuda 1998 1998 1903 1903 Foundation of Lloyd’s syndicates, the K J Coles Syndicate 40 118 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section International Business Company Overview CEO：Alan Wilson (concurrently serving as Executive Officer MSIG Holdings (Asia) Pte., Ltd. of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance) Date Established: September 23, 2004 As an overseas regional holding company, this company supervises our non-life insurance business in the ASEAN, Number of Employees*: 4,815 (As of March 31, 2018) *Total number of employees in local subsidiaries under the supervision of MSIG Holdings (Asia), Hong Kong and Oceania regions. As the only non-life insurance group with direct business in all ASEAN countries, the Thai branch, the Oceania branch and the Yangon office of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance we are making use of our solid business base to create further growth and expand locally rooted businesses. Head Office: 4 Shenton Way, #27-01 SGX Centre 2, Singapore 068807 URL https://www.msig-asia.com Principal Indicators (Non-Consolidated)* (¥ billion) FY2018 Item FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Forecast) Net premiums written 111.0 116.9 121.7 109.3 113.1 130.3 Growth rate of net premiums written 30.0% 5.3% 4.1% (10.2%) 3.5% 15.1% Net income 14.8 17.9 13.8 14.1 6.2 13.5 Principal Management Indicators* Net Premiums Written and Net income Gross Written Premiums by Product Line (FY2017) (¥ billion) Net Premiums Written (left axis) Net Income (right axis) (¥ billion) 160 20 130.3 Others Automobile 121.7 29.2% 120 13.8 109.3 14.1 113.1 13.5 15 28.2% FY2017 80 10 Marine 6.2 40 5 9.4% Property 33.2% 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecast) * Total premiums written for local subsidiaries under the supervision of MSIG Holdings (Asia) and other branches and offices of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance in the region. Data includes the Oceania Branch which came under supervision of MSIG Holdings (Asia) from FY2016. 2018 forecast includes the figures of MS First Capital. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 119 Short Commentary: Group Financial Statements Commentary 1: Balance Sheet (B/S) On its consolidated balance sheet (P. 134), the Group has total assets of ¥22.4 trillion, and the majority of its liabilities, ¥16.9 trillion, are policy liabilities̶that is, reserves for paying future insurance claims. On the other hand, the largest asset item is investments in securities, which have a total market value of ¥16.1 trillion. Unrealized gains on securities in excess of the book value (¥1.4 trillion) are recorded under deferred tax liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income (net unrealized gains/losses on investments in securities). This means that policy liabilities, which account for the majority of the Group’s balance sheet liabilities, are invested in securities. In addition, net unrealized gains on investment in securities (after tax-effect accounting) accounted for about half of net assets as of the end of FY2017. (¥ billion) (Main) assets (Main) liabilities Cash, deposits and savings 1,481.6 Policy liabilities 16,964.5 Money trusts 1,043.5 Bonds issued 558.1 Investments in securities 16,152.9 Other liabilities 1,328.6 (of which: stocks) 2,906.7 Deferred tax liabilities 221.6 Loans 892.5 Total liabilities 19,504.5 Tangible fixed assets 459.6 Intangible fixed assets 549.5 (Main) Net assets Other assets 1,297.8 Shareholders’ equity 1,500.7 Net unrealized gains/losses on investments in securities 1,487.2 Total net assets 2,968.3 Total assets 22,472.9 Total liabilities and net assets 22,472.9 Commentary 2: Statements of Income (P/L) ①Main components of the statements of income A summary of the Group’s consolidated statements of income (see P. 136) is provided below. It consists primarily of underwriting income and expenses and investment income and expenses. Income (+): underwriting income, ¥4,648.1 billion; investment income, ¥550.8 billion; other ordinary income, ¥18.8 billion Expenses (-): underwriting expenses, ¥4,157.7 billion (of which ¥558.5 billion is provision for underwriting reserves) FY2017 Investment expenses, ¥163.1 billion; operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, ¥669.6 billion; other ordinary expenses, ¥15.6 billion Ordinary profit: ¥211.5 billion Income (+): underwriting income, ¥4,810.8 billion; investment income, ¥507.2 billion; other ordinary income, ¥17.0 billion Expenses (-): underwriting expenses, ¥4,256.3 billion (of which ¥908.1 billion is provision for underwriting reserves) FY2016 Investment expenses, ¥55.0 billion; operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, ¥653.5 billion; other ordinary expenses, ¥17.5 billion Ordinary profit: ¥352.6 billion ②Underwriting profit for domestic non-life insurance companies and catastrophe reserves Underwriting profit can be dramatically affected by events such as natural catastrophes. Non-life insurance companies are legally required to build up catastrophe reserves to mitigate that impact. When companies have to pay extremely large insurance claims, they can reverse the catastrophe reserves, which mitigates the impact to a certain degree. The following table indicates past underwriting profit, incurred losses related to natural catastrophes, and changes in catastrophe reserves (net provision). (See P. 92 of the “Glossary of Insurance Terminology” section for details on the catastrophe reserves and P. 96 for the underwriting profit.) Impact of natural catastrophes on underwriting profit (¥ billion) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Underwriting profit/(loss) (83.7) (190.0) (3.0) (36.1) 28.7 43.9 121.3 89.3 Impact on underwriting profit -(A+B) (65.9) (172.0) (13.2) (93.3) (58.5) (149.7) (132.9) (159.0) Incurred losses due to natural catastrophes (A) 65.9 311.5 55.1 96.3 27.2 68.1 51.0 114.3 Great East Japan Earthquake 62.7 (7.7) 1.3 2011 Thailand floods 264.3 0.6 (23.0) (5.1) 2014 massive snowfalls 82.1 2.2 0.3 Large-scale natural catastrophes incl. 2017 hurricanes in North America 41.3 Other natural catastrophes 3.2 54.9 53.2 37.1 30.1 67.7 51.0 73.0 Net provision for catastrophe reserves (B) 0 (139.5) (41.9) (3.0) 31.3 81.6 81.8 44.6 * Simple sum of MSI and ADI Example: The impact of loss of ¥311.5 billion from natural catastrophes for FY2011 was mitigated by reversal of catastrophe reserves of ¥139.5 billion and resulted in an underwriting loss of ¥190.0 billion. 120 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS Performance Record Five-Year Summary (Unaudited) 122 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 123 Premiums Written and Net Claims Paid̶ 130 Non-Life Insurance (Unaudited) Policies in Force and New Policies̶ 132 Domestic Life Insurance (Unaudited) Investment Assets and Investments in Securities (Unaudited) 133 Consolidated Balance Sheets 134 Consolidated Statements of Income 136 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 137 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 138 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 141 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 142 Independent Auditor’s Report 165 Summary of Business Results of 166 Main Consolidated Subsidiaries Five-Year Summary (Unaudited) Yen in millions US$ in millions FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Ordinary income: ¥ 4,362,754 ¥ 4,689,658 ¥ 5,013,038 ¥ 5,335,239 ¥ 5,217,835 $ 49,225 Net premiums written 2,811,611 2,939,113 3,078,732 3,407,389 3,440,976 32,462 Ordinary profit/(loss) 190,259 287,061 291,578 352,612 211,548 1,996 Net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent 93,451 136,247 181,516 210,447 154,057 1,453 Comprehensive income/(loss) 322,865 807,972 （233,116） 114,294 311,096 2,935 Net assets 2,285,832 3,036,663 2,725,274 2,734,432 2,968,387 28,004 Total assets 16,878,148 18,788,046 20,303,649 21,234,300 22,472,927 212,009 Yen US$ Net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent per share Basic ¥ 150.58 ¥ 221.34 ¥ 298.72 ¥ 350.94 ¥ 260.04 $ 2.45 Net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent per share Diluted – – – 350.90 259.98 2.45 Net assets per share 3,646.22 4,911.40 4,469.58 4,572.82 4,964.64 46.84 Equity ratio 13.39% 16.00% 13.29% 12.76% 13.09% – Return on equity 4.42% 5.18% 6.36% 7.78% 5.45% – Price earnings ratio 15.70 15.23 10.50 10.09 12.90 – Yen in millions US$ in millions Cash flows Cash flows from operating activities ¥489,950 ¥628,184 ¥1,291,017 ¥1,086,948 ¥ 822,640 $ 7,761 Cash flows from investing activities （549,136） （410,671） （1,217,980） （614,899） （963,105） （9,086） Cash flows from financing activities （57,323） （58,941） 199,075 （100,198） 42,329 399 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 625,084 805,455 1,056,407 1,415,903 1,323,506 12,486 Number of employees 37,055 38,358 40,617 40,641 41,295 – Note: U.S. dollar amounts in this report have been translated from yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥106=US$1. For details, see Note 1 of Significant Accounting Policies (p142). 122 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Management’s Discussion and Analysis 1. OVERVIEW 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND This Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) provides information ESTIMATES on the nature of the businesses conducted by MS&AD Holdings and its MS&AD Holdings’ consolidated financial statements are prepared in affiliates (187 subsidiaries and 38 associates as of March 31, 2018), and the accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (Japan positioning of the principal affiliates within these businesses. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires MS&AD Holdings’ management to select and apply accounting policies as well as to MS&AD is a specified listed company pursuant to the provisions make a number of estimates regarding the impact on disclosure of assets stipulated in the Japanese Cabinet Order 49-2 and is regulated under this and liabilities as well as revenues and expenses. The management bases Order with respect to securities transactions and other matters. As a result, their estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that they investors should make decisions based on the Group’s consolidated consider reasonable. Nevertheless, these estimates contain inherent financial statements as provided for under the minimal standards criteria of uncertainties and thus could differ from actual results. material facts set forth in restrictions on insider trading. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of MS&AD Description of Businesses Holdings’ consolidated financial statements are presented in “SIGNIFICANT 1) Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business ACCOUNTING POLICIES” of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial MS&AD’s domestic non-life insurance business is operated by the following three Statements.” subsidiaries and others in Japan: Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited (“MSI”) The management recognizes the following significant accounting Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company, Limited (“ADI”) policies and estimates could have significant impacts on the consolidated Mitsui Direct General Insurance Company, Limited (“Mitsui Direct General”) financial statements. 2) Domestic Life Insurance Business 1) Method for Determination of Fair Value MS&AD’s domestic life insurance business is operated by the following two Certain assets and liabilities are recorded on the Company’s balance sheet subsidiaries and others in Japan: at their fair values. These fair values are determined based on market prices. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Company, Limited (“MSA Life”) For certain derivatives for which market prices are not available, reasonable Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Company, Limited (“MSP Life”) estimates of fair value are made based on the present value of future cash flows, the price of the underlying assets, the contract period, and other 3) International Business factors. MS&AD’s international business is operated by international divisions of domestic non-life insurance subsidiaries in Japan, and overseas 2) Impairment of Securities subsidiaries, including MS Amlin plc, and overseas branches of domestic Since securities held by the Group companies are subject to the risk of price non-life insurance subsidiaries in overseas countries. fluctuations in securities markets, MS&AD applies impairment accounting for securities based on reasonable criteria. If securities markets decline, an 4) Financial Services Business / Risk-Related Services Business impairment loss could be incurred. a) Financial Services Business MS&AD’s financial services business, including asset management, financial 3) Impairment of Fixed Assets guarantees, 401k, ART (alternative risk transfer), personal finance, and When the profitability of fixed assets declines and investments in these venture capital finance, is operated by domestic non-life insurance assets are unlikely to be recovered, MS&AD recognizes impairment losses subsidiaries, Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited, Mitsui to reflect recoverable amounts under certain circumstances. Sumitomo Insurance Venture Capital Company, Limited, and others. The recoverable amount for an asset or asset group is the higher of the net sales value (the value computed by deducting expected disposal b) Risk-Related Services Business expenses from the fair value of an asset or asset group) and the value in use MS&AD’s risk-related services business, including risk management and (the present value of expected future cash flows resulting from the continual nursing care business, is operated by InterRisk Research Institute & usage and subsequent disposal of an asset or asset group). Consulting, Inc., Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Care Network Company, Accordingly, the amount of the impairment loss for fixed assets Limited, and others. depends on estimated future cash flows based on the assumption and forecasts that MS&AD considers reasonable. Consequently, an additional impairment loss could be incurred in the event of a change in the usage of fixed assets or in the event of changes in real estate or leasing market prices. 4) Deferred Tax Assets In determining recoverable deferred tax assets, future taxable income is estimated based on the assumptions and forecasts that MS&AD considers reasonable. Since the recoverable amount of deferred tax assets depends on estimates of future taxable income, the amount of deferred tax assets could fluctuate in the event of a subsequent change in estimates of future taxable income. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 123 5) Allowance for Credit Losses In regard to reorganization by function, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance In preparation for losses on bad debts, MS&AD records estimated Co., Ltd., Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi amounts deemed to be unrecoverable as an allowance for credit losses. Life Insurance Co., Ltd. pursued initiatives to promote growth and efficiency Unrecoverable amounts and recorded allowances for credit losses could in the Group as a whole, such as the joint development of non-life claims change from their initial estimates due to changes in the financial condition service systems, transfer of long-term policies in force of the third sector, of debtors. and consolidation and reorganization of the head office functions. 6) Outstanding Claims As a result of these efforts, earnings for the current consolidated fiscal MS&AD estimates and sets aside reserves as outstanding claims for any year to date are as follows. unpaid amounts of its payment obligations as determined or recognized by insurance contracts. Claim payments and recorded outstanding claims Underwriting income was ¥4,648.1 billion, investment income was could change from their initial estimates due to such factors as the results ¥550.8 billion and other ordinary income was ¥18.8 billion, resulting in total of legal judgments and exchange rate fluctuations. ordinary income of ¥5,217.8 billion. At the same time, ordinary expenses amounted to ¥5,006.2 billion, including ¥4,157.7 billion in underwriting 7) Underwriting Reserves expenses, ¥163.1 billion in investment expenses, ¥669.6 billion in operating To meet future obligations in accordance with insurance contracts, expenses and general and administrative expenses, and other ordinary MS&AD sets aside underwriting reserves. It could, therefore, become expenses amounting to ¥15.6 billion. necessary to increase underwriting reserves in the event of unforeseen losses due to significant changes in the business environment, operating As a result, affected by incurred losses (total of net claims paid and conditions and other factors. provision for outstanding claims reserves) from several natural catastrophes in Japan and overseas, the Company posted an ordinary profit of ¥211.5 8) Retirement Benefit Expenses and Retirement Benefit Obligations billion, a decrease of ¥141.0 billion over the previous fiscal year. After Retirement benefit expenses and retirement benefit obligations are factoring in extraordinary income and losses, income taxes and other items, calculated based on certain assumptions that include discount rates, net income attributable to owners of the parent fell by ¥56.3 billion over the future retirement rates, and mortality rates. However, future retirement previous fiscal year to ¥154.0 billion. benefit expenses and obligations could change in the event that actual results differ from the assumptions used, or in the event that it becomes [Key Consolidated Financial Indicators] necessary to change the assumptions. (Yen in millions) FY2016 FY2017 Change Change (%) 3. SUMMARY OF BUSINESS RESULTS Net premiums written ¥3,407,389 ¥3,440,976 33,586 1.0 In spite of concerns about the impact of unstable political situations and Life insurance premiums 1,253,167 1,058,278 （194,888） （15.6） financial markets, the global economy was generally firm in the fiscal year Ordinary profit 352,612 211,548 （141,063） （40.0） under review with economic recoveries continuing in the U.S. and Europe. Net income attributable to owners of Against such a global economy, the Japanese economy also recovered the parent 210,447 154,057 （56,389） （26.8） moderately, reflecting continued improvement in corporate earnings, employment and income conditions among other factors. Net premiums written increased by ¥33.5 billion over the previous fiscal year, to ¥3,440.9 billion. Despite a decrease in revenues from overseas In the non-life insurance industry, despite an increase in premium insurance subsidiaries, this increase was mainly due to higher revenues from revenue reflecting these economic trends, the results were severely the Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business. affected by natural disasters such as typhoons in Japan and hurricanes in North America. In the life insurance industry, the amount of policies in Life insurance premiums declined by ¥194.8 billion over the previous force remained at the same level as in the previous year, despite a decline fiscal year, to ¥1,058.2 billion owing mainly to the downturn in revenues at in the amount of new policies for personal insurance due to the impact of Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. the revision of the premium rate. Affected by incurred losses (the total of net claims paid and provision In such a business environment, during the last year of the mediumfor outstanding claims reserves) from several natural catastrophes in Japan term management plan Next Challenge 2017 that began in FY2014, the and overseas, the Company posted an ordinary profit of ¥211.5 billion, a Group pursued Completion of reorganization by function, Strengthening decrease of ¥141.0 billion over the previous fiscal year. After factoring in of Group governance and promotion of ERM (Enterprise Risk extraordinary income and losses, income taxes and other items, net income Management), Transformation of business structure to respond to future attributable to owners of the parent fell by ¥56.3 billion over the previous changes in the environment and Permeation of a corporate culture and fiscal year, to ¥154.0 billion. development of human assets that meet challenges as professionals based on the Group’s basic strategy to enhance the corporate value of Insurance premiums written and claims paid by product line of the Group as a whole by focusing on ensuring sustainable growth, insurance are as follows. improving profitability, securing financial soundness and enhancing capital efficiency. 124 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Direct Premiums Written (including Deposit Premiums from Policyholders) Segment Information (Yen in millions) Performance by segment is as follows. FY2016 FY2017 Lines of Insurance Share Change Share Change 1) Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business (MSI) Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Net premiums written climbed by ¥24.2 billion over the previous fiscal year, Fire and Allied ¥ 602,521 16.7 （8.3） ¥ 627,029 17.2 4.1 to ¥1,494.3 billion, primarily because of the increase in fire insurance Marine 168,715 4.7 27.5 168,602 4.6 （0.1） revenue. Personal Accident 321,055 8.9 0.3 320,764 8.8 （0.1） The net loss ratio came in at 61.8%, 0.6 of a percentage point higher Voluntary Automobile 1,524,096 42.1 3.3 1,546,108 42.4 1.4 than in the previous fiscal year. This was largely due to the payment of Compulsory Automobile Liability 366,523 10.1 2.8 343,370 9.4 （6.3） automobile insurance claims. In addition, as a result of increases in commissions and collection expenses as well as operating expenses and Other 632,874 17.5 20.0 643,233 17.6 1.6 general and administrative expenses for underwriting, the net expense ratio Total ¥3,615,785 100 4.2 ¥3,649,108 100.0 0.9 was 31.5%, 0.3 of a percentage point higher than in the previous fiscal year. Deposit premiums from policyholders 98,546 2.7 （15.2） 86,371 2.4 （12.4） After taking into account other items, including deposit premiums from Notes: 1. The figures represent amounts after the elimination of internal transactions between policyholders, maturity refunds to policyholders, reversal of outstanding segments. claims, and reversal of underwriting reserves, underwriting profit rose by 2. Direct premiums written (including deposit premiums from policyholders) are the premiums ¥2.6 billion, to ¥84.4 billion. This mainly reflected such factors as the from policyholders minus the surrender benefits and other refunds to policyholders. (Includes deposit premiums from policyholders for savings-type insurance.) increase in reversal of underwriting reserves. Net Premiums Written Accounting for such factors as the decrease in interest and dividends (Yen in millions) income by ¥11.6 billion over the previous fiscal year, to ¥105.1 billion, and FY2016 FY2017 the increase in gains on sales of securities by ¥50.4 billion, to ¥122.2 billion, Lines of Insurance Share Change Share Change total investment income after deducting investment gains appropriated to Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) such items as maturity funds of savings-type insurance grew by ¥40.8 Fire and Allied ¥ 540,715 15.9 14.7 ¥ 553,183 16.1 2.3 billion, to ¥199.9 billion. Meanwhile, total investment expenses declined by Marine 145,697 4.3 37.3 142,339 4.1 （2.3） ¥2.5 billion, to ¥9.3 billion owing mainly to the downturn in losses on sales Personal Accident of securities. 237,918 7.0 8.9 240,450 7.0 1.1 Voluntary Automobile 1,559,958 45.8 4.3 1,587,008 46.1 1.7 As a result, ordinary profit increased by ¥47.0 billion over the previous Compulsory fiscal year, to ¥262.5 billion and net income climbed by ¥33.6 billion, to Automobile Liability 356,088 10.4 （0.4） 352,063 10.2 （1.1） ¥198.2 billion. Other 567,010 16.6 32.0 565,931 16.5 （0.2） Total ¥3,407,389 100.0 10.7 ¥3,440,976 100.0 1.0 2) Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business (ADI) Note: The figures represent amounts after the elimination of internal transactions between Net premiums written grew by ¥21.4 billion over the previous fiscal year, to segments. ¥1,222.0 billion, primarily because of the increase in fire insurance revenue. Net Claims Paid Meanwhile, net claims paid increased by ¥12.0 billion, to ¥660.6 billion. (Yen in millions) This increase in net claims paid was largely attributable to higher fire FY2016 FY2017 Lines of Insurance insurance payments on the back of natural disasters that occurred in Japan Share Change Share Change Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) and overseas. The net loss ratio was 59.2%, which was 0.1 of a percentage Fire and Allied ¥ 297,850 16.3 26.6 ¥ 378,241 19.5 27.0 point higher than in the previous fiscal year. In addition, as a result of the decrease in underwriting-related operating expenses and general and Marine 96,981 5.3 102.0 82,302 4.3 （15.1） administrative expenses, the net expenses ratio came in at 33.4%, which Personal Accident 107,937 5.9 （1.3） 106,233 5.5 （1.6） was 0.1 of a percentage point lower than in the previous fiscal year. Voluntary Automobile 798,736 43.6 2.8 841,807 43.5 5.4 Compulsory After taking into account other items, including deposit premiums from Automobile Liability 258,465 14.1 （0.2） 252,990 13.1 （2.1） policyholders, maturity refunds to policyholders, provision for outstanding Other 271,905 14.8 36.6 273,589 14.1 0.6 claims, and provision for underwriting reserves, underwriting profit Total ¥1,831,876 100.0 12.6 ¥1,935,165 100.0 5.6 decreased by ¥34.6 billion over the previous fiscal year, to ¥4.8 billion owing Note: The figures represent amounts after the elimination of internal transactions between primarily to the increase in incurred losses (the total of net claims paid and segments. provision for outstanding claims reserves) from such natural catastrophes as typhoons in Japan and hurricanes in North America. Accounting for such factors as the increase in interest and dividends income by ¥3.0 billion over the previous fiscal year, to ¥58.4 billion, and the increase in gains on sales of securities by ¥5.3 billion, to ¥18.7 billion, total investment income after deducting investment gains appropriated to such items as maturity funds of savings-type insurance grew by ¥8.9 billion, to ¥61.0 billion. Meanwhile, total investment expenses climbed by ¥43.4 billion, INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 125 to ¥57.8 billion owing mainly to the upswing in impairment losses on outstanding claims reserves) from several overseas natural catastrophes, this securities by ¥44.1 billion over the previous fiscal year. segment posted an ordinary loss of ¥104.3 billion, a negative turnaround of ¥144.3 billion over the operating profit of the previous fiscal year. After taking As a result, ordinary profit decreased by ¥69.5 billion over the previous ownership interests into account, this segment incurred a net loss for the fiscal year, to ¥5.6 billion. While extraordinary income increased owing to fiscal year under review of ¥104.6 billion. This too was a negative turnaround the reversal of reserve for price fluctuation, after taking into account other of ¥128.7 billion over the net income of the previous fiscal year. factors, net income declined by ¥34.7 billion, to ¥15.6 billion over the previous fiscal year. 4. CASH FLOW ANALYSIS With regard to cash flows in the fiscal year under review, net cash flows 3) Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business (Mitsui Direct General) provided by operating activities decreased by ¥264.3 billion over the Net premiums written increased by ¥0.2 billion over the previous fiscal year, previous fiscal year, to ¥822.6 billion, mainly due to a decrease in life to ¥37.8 billion. insurance premiums. Net cash flows from investing activities decreased by ¥348.2 billion from the previous fiscal year, mainly due to an increase in Meanwhile, net claims paid declined by ¥0.9 billion, to ¥24.8 billion. purchase of securities, to ¥ (963.1) billion. In addition, net cash flows from The net loss ratio was 73.0%, which was 2.9 of percentage points lower financing activities were ¥42.3 billion, an increase of ¥142.5 billion over the than in the previous fiscal year. previous fiscal year, which mainly reflected a decline in repayments of borrowings. As a result, the balance of cash and cash equivalents at the In addition, commissions and collection expenses as well as end of the fiscal year under review stood at ¥1,323.5 billion, a decrease of underwriting-related operating expenses and general and administrative ¥92.3 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year. expenses rose by ¥0.5 billion, to ¥8.8 billion. As a result, the net expenses ratio came to 23.3%, which was 1.3 of percentage points higher than in the 5. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND ISSUES TO BE previous fiscal year. ADDRESSED FROM THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVES Underwriting profit was ¥0.3 billion, a turnaround of ¥1.3 billion. This It is expected that the global economy will continue to expand steadily in the largely reflected the decrease in incurred losses (the total of net losses paid future, although uncertainty remains, such as protectionist policies and and provision for outstanding claims reserves). On this basis, net income Brexit negotiations. The Japanese economy is also expected to continue to came to ¥0.3 billion, again a turnaround of ¥1.3 billion over the previous recover because of increases in external and internal demand against the fiscal year. background of the global economic recovery and the Tokyo Olympics. As a result, and after taking ownership interests into account, net Regarding the insurance industry, the market is expected to expand income for the fiscal year under review increased by ¥1.2 billion over the backed by the positive flow-on effects of the economic recovery. On the previous fiscal year, to ¥0.2 billion. other hand, the business environment is anticipated to remain unpredictable, due to such factors as the aging society and low birth rate, the population 4) Domestic Life Insurance Business (MSI Aioi Life) decline, increased risk of natural disasters, and future policy trends in Japan Insurance premium and others rose by ¥13.4 billion over the previous fiscal and overseas. In addition, it is becoming increasingly important to contribute year, to ¥493.7 billion, mainly due to an increase in individual insurance to sustainable growth by supporting a rapidly changing society, which is premiums. witnessing the utilization of AI and big data, and the expansion of a sharing economy. Ordinary profit climbed by ¥0.8 billion, to ¥16.9 billion, primarily because of the increase in investment income. In fiscal 2018, we launched a new medium-term management plan “Vision 2021”. The four years to fiscal 2021 are positioned as a “period to Net income grew by ¥0.6 billion over the previous fiscal year, to ¥5.2 achieve the medium-term aspirations of the Group” and a “period to create billion. resilient(*1) systems that can respond swiftly to changes in the environment.” At the same time, we will promote the basic strategy and key strategies 5) Domestic Life Insurance Business (MSI Primary Life) shown in the following figure. Insurance premium and others decreased by ¥24.3 billion over the Vision 2021 Basic strategy previous fiscal year, to ¥1,059.5 billion. This was mainly attributable to the ・By employing the Group’s resources to the maximum, we will realize sustainable growth and decline in variable whole-life insurance premiums. enhance corporate value. ・We will pursue the Group’s comprehensive strengths, one of which is diversity, and meet the expectations of customers and other stakeholders. ・We will respond flexibly to changes in the environment and further improve quality and productivity. Ordinary profit decreased by ¥28.7 billion, to ¥28.9 billion. Despite the steady increase in interest and dividends income, this decrease largely Key strategies reflected the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. 1 Pursue Group’s comprehensive strengths ・Make maximum use of Group’s strengths (diversity, capital, human assets, customer base, etc.) ・Review division of roles by each Group company and strengthen cooperation ・Promote standardization and sharing Net income climbed by ¥8.5 billion, to ¥29.2 billion owing primarily to the reversal of the reserve for price fluctuation of ¥11.5 billion. 2 Promote digitalization ・Work on “digitalization” across entire Group and connect it to transformation of entire business. ・Improve value of experiences when customers contact individual Group companies and improve business productivity of MS&AD Group at the same time. 6) International Business (Overseas Insurance Subsidiaries) Net premiums written declined by ¥10.7 billion over the previous fiscal year, 3 Reform portfolio ・We will reform the Group’s business portfolio and risk portfolio, etc., to create a stable earnings base. to ¥682.3 billion, primarily because of the downturn in revenues in Europe. We will also strive to realize a resilient and sustainable society(*2) Affected by incurred losses (the total of net claims paid and provision for through our corporate activities by leveraging our inherent characteristics of 126 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section diversity, and by supporting social life and vigorous business activities. procure funds through transactions with extremely unfavorable terms. The Through these initiatives, we aspire to create a world-leading insurance and Group could also be forced to conduct transactions at extremely financial group with a global business reach. unfavorable prices due to market disruptions. There is a risk that such situations could have a negative impact on the Group’s business results. *1 Resilient Having the power to adapt flexibly and skillfully, reduce impact and recover quickly in (iv) Reinsurance transaction risk against changing circumstances and unexpected events *2 Sustainable society The Group utilizes reinsurance to diversify its liabilities assumed under A vibrant society that spans several generations, where anyone can live securely and insurance contracts and to stabilize earnings. Nevertheless, there is a risk safely while resolving issues related to the global environment, society and human beings that a worsening of conditions in the reinsurance markets could prevent the Group from securing adequate reinsurance protection and risk 6. RISK ANALYSIS diversification, which would inhibit its insurance underwriting capabilities. Details of certain risks related to the Group’s business performance and Moreover, there is a risk of a negative impact on the Group’s business financial condition that may potentially have a significant influence on results due to a sharp rise in reinsurance premiums or an inability to recover investor decisions are presented as follows. reinsurance claims in the event of the bankruptcy of reinsurance companies. (i) Asset management risk (v) Risk of loss resulting from unforeseen changes, including The Group holds various assets under management, including securities, changes in economic and social environment loans, real estate, and off-balance-sheet assets. There is a risk that a Although insurance companies set premium levels based on forecasts of deterioration of economic or financial market conditions could cause probable future losses from insurance contracts, the actual amount of changes in asset and liability values and thereby impact the Group’s losses may exceed the forecasts. This is particularly true for long-term business results. The main kinds of such risks are as follows. contracts because of the possibility of significant changes in the economic and social conditions initially expected. Accordingly, there is a risk of a a. Stock price risk negative impact on the Group’s business results due to the need for The Group holds large amounts of stock for the purpose of maintaining additional provisions for policy liabilities. relationships with business partners over the mediumto long-term, and there is a possibility of a reduction in the value of the Group’s assets and (vi) Risk related to intensified competition within the insurance recognition of impairment losses and losses on sales in the event of a industry decline in stock prices. The Group’s business environment is becoming increasingly harsh due to factors such as new entrants coming into the insurance industry in b. Interest rate risk conjunction with ongoing deregulation and downward pressure on premium There is a possibility of a change in the value of the Group’s assets, including levels. Under these circumstances, there is a risk that the Group’s business bonds and loans as well as insurance liabilities requiring future payments to results could be negatively impacted from intensified competition due to a policyholders of savings-type insurance, long-term third-sector insurance, or variety of factors including further deregulation, increased entry of new life insurance attributable to changes in interest rates. participants, the emergence of new technologies, and shrinkage of the insurance market and others. c. Foreign exchange rate risk The Group holds assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (vii) Risk associated with domestic life insurance business such as the U.S. dollar, and there is a possibility of changes in those assets While working to expand its domestic life insurance business as one of the and liabilities owing to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements. growth areas, domestic life insurance business has inherent risks, such as changes in market base due to intensifying competition, uncertainty in d. Credit risk occurrence of insurance benefit and claims and surrender trends given the There is a possibility that lowered creditworthiness or bankruptcies of stock long-term nature of insurance policies. Taking each of the aforementioned into and bond issuers or borrowers, or disruptions in credit markets could cause consideration, there is a risk that these factors could have a negative impact a decline in the value of the Group’s assets such as stocks, corporate on the Group’s business results. bonds, loans, and credit and guarantee insurance contracts or prevent the Group from recovering principal and/or interest. (viii) Risk associated with international business The Group is aggressively expanding international business in areas such as (ii) Risk of large insurance claims due to natural disaster Asia, Europe and the Americas through branches and subsidiaries including Natural disasters such as typhoons and earthquakes can result in large development of business domain based on M&A strategy. With this comes losses, and with such natural disasters growing in frequency and scale the risk of unexpected changes in the political, economic and social worldwide due to the impact of such factors as climate change, there is a conditions, regulatory changes, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and the possibility that huge natural disasters exceeding forecast levels will occur. occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics in these countries. In such an The Group utilizes reinsurance and builds appropriate catastrophe reserves, event, there is a risk of a negative impact on the Group’s business results. so it is able to properly respond to instances of large claim payments arising from such catastrophic events. Nonetheless, there is a risk of a negative (ix) Risk associated with related business impact on the Group’s business results due to excessive payments caused The Group engages in a wide range of business activities that fall outside by larger-than-expected natural disasters. the insurance domain. In addition to the Financial Services Business, which includes asset management, financial guarantee, 401k, alternative risk (iii) Liquidity risk transfer (ART), personal loan, venture capital, and other related products If there is an increase of payments of insurance claims from natural and services, the Group is also active in risk management, nursing care, and disasters, the Group’s cash flows may deteriorate and force the Group to other related fields through its Risk-Related Services Business. There is a INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 127 risk that the Group’s business results could be negatively impacted from business integration. Furthermore, on September 27, 2013, the Company, intensified competition due to greater than expected changes in the MSI, ADI and MSA Life finalized the “Agreement on Reorganization by conditions of those markets in which the Group operates. Function” measures designed to promote the realization of objectives such as sustainable growth and the enhancement of corporate value. The Group (x) Risk of information leaks is taking comprehensive risk management preparations to prevent business The Group maintains large volumes of customer information, including and information systems problems, insufficient responses to customers, and personal information, and confidential information, such as management other potential problems associated with the implementation of data at each of the Group companies including the Company. The Group “Reorganization by Function” measures; however, in the case that has put an information management framework in place to strictly administer unforeseen confusion were to occur despite the preventative measures and information. However, in the event of a significant leak of information, the impede the full realization of synergies from business integration, there is a Group could suffer a loss of the trust from customers and society, as well as risk of a negative impact on the Group’s business results. be held liable to pay compensation for damages. In such an event, there is a risk of a negative impact on the Group’s business results. (xvi) Risks from changes in applicable laws, regulations and systems (xi) Information systems risk The Group conducts business based on the provisions of applicable acts There is a risk that natural disasters, accidents, improper access via such as the Insurance Business Act of Japan and issues financial reports in cyberattacks, system defects, and other factors could cause problems such accordance with the laws, regulations and standards that relate to corporate as an information leak or stoppage, malfunction, or improper use of the accounting and tax affairs. Any future amendment to these applicable laws Group’s information systems. There is also a risk that unexpected accidents and regulations that requires a change to the methods of selling insurance could cause a delay or budget overrun of a large-scale system development products and to product content, as well as the methods for estimating and project aimed to improve profitability. The Group is striving to manage such accounting for policy liabilities, deferred tax assets, and other items, may have information systems risk; however, in the case of a large-scale information a negative impact on the Group’s business results. system problem involving a system stoppage, a system malfunction or improper system use, an information leak, or a delay or budget overrun of a (xvii) Reputational risk large-scale system development project, there is a risk of a negative impact Rumors about the insurance industry or the Group have the potential to affect on the Group’s business results. the social credibility of the Group, regardless of whether or not they are true. Such rumors can be created or spread through the mass media, postings on (xii) Risks related to personnel and labor relations the Internet, or other means. The Group strives to minimize the effect of rumors The Group works diligently to secure and develop excellent personnel. by discovering them quickly and responding to them in a timely and However, should a major personnel or labor relations issue arise that causes appropriate fashion. However, if a malicious rumor were to be circulated, there the Group to suffer a loss of trust from society, there is a risk of a negative is a risk that it may have a negative impact on the Group’s business results. impact on the Group’s business results. (xviii) Other risks (xiii) Business operation risk There is a risk that the Group’s business results could be negatively The Group is striving to undertake the management processes necessary to impacted by acts of terrorism, disputes, and riots both in Japan and prevent the occurrence or minimize the impact of such situations as overseas, military conflicts between nations, unprecedented large-scale administrative errors, legal or regulatory violations, impropriety by employees, accidents and incidents, and external factors that are difficult to predict in criminal conduct by outside parties, and disasters. Despite these advance. undertakings, however, there is a risk that the Group will lose the trust of customers and society, be prevented from properly carrying out its business 7. SOLVENCY MARGIN RATIO operations, incur sanctions from supervisory authorities, and ultimately have Insurance companies build reserves to cover payments of insurance claims. its business performance negatively impacted should any of these situations Moreover, they must secure adequate ability to cover payments even in the in fact arise. event of a crisis beyond the scale of what is ordinarily forecast, such as a major disaster or a significant decline in asset prices. An insurance (xiv) Risk of business disruption company’s payment capability, including capital and reserves, is known as The Group has formulated a business continuity plan and prepared a crisis the solvency margin total amount, “(A)” in the tables below, and its risk management framework to respond to the occurrence of natural disasters or amount, “(B)” in the tables below, reflects such a risk exceeding ordinary unusual events such as an earthquake in the Tokyo metropolitan area and an forecasts. The ratio of (A) to (B) is an index called the solvency margin ratio, outbreak of disease, such as novel influenza virus. This framework is intended “(C)” in the tables below, which is calculated based on the Insurance to limit the duration of any disruption of business and enable business Business Act. operations to be continued. Notwithstanding these crisis management measures, the Group’s business continuity could be inhibited, or the impact The solvency margin ratio is an objective decision-making index used of the above disruptions could be greater than anticipated. In such an event, by government agencies for monitoring insurance companies and insurance there is a risk of a negative impact on the Group’s business results. holding companies. A solvency margin ratio of 200% or higher is taken to indicate that an insurance company has sufficient capability to pay insurance (xv) Risk of not fully realizing synergies from business integration claims and other obligations. The Group takes synergy effects from business integration into account when formulating numerical management targets. The Group will expand its The status of MS&AD and its domestic insurance subsidiaries as of the customer base by improving the quality of service, share and standardize end of the fiscal year under review is as follows. administrative tasks and systems, and take all manner of other measures in 128 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section MS&AD b. Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Yen in millions) (Yen in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2016 FY2017 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥1,305,152 ¥1,284,815 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥4,875,444 ¥5,067,184 (B) Risk amount 298,961 319,689 (B) Risk amount 1,117,406 1,236,932 (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 873.1% 803.7% (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 872.6% 819.3% Note: See the note for MSI “b. Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio” regarding the Note: The consolidated solvency margin ratio is calculated based on the provisions in Article consolidated solvency margin ratio calculation method. 210–11, 3 and Article 210–11, 4 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act and in the Financial Services Agency (FSA) Public Ministerial The solvency margin ratio decreased by 69.4 percentage points over the Announcement No. 23 of 2011. previous fiscal year-end, to 803.7% on the back of such factors as the The solvency margin ratio decreased by 53.3 percentage points over the year-on-year decrease in the solvency margin total amount by ¥20.3 billion. previous fiscal year-end, to 819.3% on the back of such factors as the This largely reflected dividends paid and the redemption prior to maturity of year-on-year increase in the total amount of risks by ¥119.5 billion. This largely subordinated bonds. reflected the increase in asset management risk. Mitsui Direct General MSI Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio a. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Yen in millions) (Yen in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2016 FY2017 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥14,705 ¥14,992 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥2,840,438 ¥3,293,687 (B) Risk amount 6,817 6,553 (B) Risk amount 863,472 939,444 (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 431.4% 457.5% (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 657.9% 701.1% Note: See the note for MSI “a. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio” regarding the Note: The non-consolidated solvency margin ratio is calculated based on the provisions in non-consolidated solvency margin ratio calculation method. Articles 86 and 87 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act and Article 50 of the Notification of the Ministry of Finance 1996. The solvency margin ratio improved by 26.1 percentage points over the The solvency margin ratio improved by 43.2 percentage points over the previous fiscal year-end, to 457.5% on the back of such factors as the previous fiscal year-end, to 701.1% on the back of such factors as the year-on-year increase in the solvency margin total amount by ¥0.2 billion. This year-on-year increase in the solvency margin total amount by ¥453.2 billion. largely reflected the increase in total net assets attributable to net income. This largely reflected the increase in shareholders’ equity attributable to net income and the issuance of domestic subordinated bonds. MSA Life b. Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Yen in millions) (Yen in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2016 FY2017 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥2,497,621 ¥2,714,894 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥487,958 ¥484,904 (B) Risk amount 722,818 809,237 (B) Risk amount 51,546 56,163 (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 691.0% 670.9% (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 1,893.2% 1,726.7% Note: The consolidated solvency margin ratio is calculated based on the provisions in Article Note: See the note for MSI “a. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio” regarding the 86-2 and Article 88 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act non-consolidated solvency margin ratio calculation method. and FSA Public Ministerial Announcement No. 23 of 2011. The solvency margin ratio decreased by 166.5 percentage points over the The solvency margin ratio decreased by 20.1 percentage points over the previous fiscal year-end, to 1,726.7% on the back of such factors as the previous fiscal year-end, to 670.9% on the back of such factors as the year-on-year increase in the total amount of risks by ¥4.6 billion. This largely year-on-year increase in the total amount of risks by ¥86.4 billion. This largely reflected the increase in asset management risk. reflected the increase in asset management risk. ADI MSP Life a. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Yen in millions) (Yen in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2016 FY2017 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥1,332,714 ¥1,268,359 (A) Solvency margin total amount ¥558,542 ¥605,676 (B) Risk amount 312,981 323,538 (B) Risk amount 108,399 121,997 (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 851.6% 784.0% (C) Solvency margin ratio (A/(B × 1/2)) × 100 1,030.5% 992.9% Note: See the note for MSI “a. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio” regarding the Note: See the note for MSI “a. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio” regarding the non-consolidated solvency margin ratio calculation method. non-consolidated solvency margin ratio calculation method. The solvency margin ratio decreased by 67.6 percentage points over the The solvency margin ratio decreased by 37.6 percentage points over the previous fiscal year-end, to 784.0% on the back of such factors as the previous fiscal year-end, to 992.9% on the back of such factors as the year-on-year decrease in the solvency margin total amount by ¥64.3 billion. year-on-year increase in the total amount of risks by ¥13.5 billion. This largely This largely reflected dividends paid and the redemption prior to maturity of reflected the increase in asset management risk due to increase in asset subordinated bond. under management. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 129 Premiums Written and Net Claims Paid — Non-Life Insurance (Unaudited) (a) Direct Premiums Written (including deposit premiums from policyholders) (Yen in millions) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Change Share Change Share Change Share Lines of Insurance Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Fire and Allied ¥ 590,674 7.7 18.3 ¥ 625,179 5.8 18.7 ¥ 657,398 5.2 19.0 Marine 121,387 12.5 3.8 131,030 7.9 3.9 132,284 1.0 3.8 Personal Accident 347,562 （1.4） 10.8 341,241 （1.8） 10.2 319,937 （6.2） 9.2 Voluntary Automobile 1,378,126 3.8 42.8 1,421,126 3.1 42.4 1,475,596 3.8 42.5 Compulsory Automobile Liability 352,649 9.6 10.9 355,417 0.8 10.6 356,465 0.3 10.3 Other 432,409 10.5 13.4 476,209 10.1 14.2 527,502 10.8 15.2 Total ¥3,222,809 5.7 100.0 ¥3,350,204 4.0 100.0 ¥3,469,185 3.6 100.0 Deposit premiums from policyholders ¥ 151,449 （7.6） 4.7 ¥ 138,799 （8.4） 4.1 ¥ 116,225 （16.3） 3.4 (b) Net Premiums Written (Yen in millions) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Change Share Change Share Change Share Lines of Insurance Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Fire and Allied ¥ 398,163 12.5 14.2 ¥ 425,881 7.0 14.5 ¥ 471,476 10.7 15.3 Marine 97,054 11.2 3.5 103,389 6.5 3.5 106,108 2.6 3.4 Personal Accident 227,546 2.1 8.1 230,991 1.5 7.9 218,487 （5.4） 7.1 Voluntary Automobile 1,393,198 4.2 49.5 1,438,002 3.2 48.9 1,495,339 4.0 48.6 Compulsory Automobile Liability 338,245 8.9 12.0 348,356 3.0 11.8 357,639 2.7 11.6 Other 357,402 9.2 12.7 392,491 9.8 13.4 429,680 9.5 14.0 Total ¥2,811,611 6.5 100.0 ¥2,939,113 4.5 100.0 ¥3,078,732 4.8 100.0 (c) Net Claims Paid (Yen in millions) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Change Share Change Share Change Share Lines of Insurance Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Fire and Allied ¥ 252,695 （20.0） 15.1 ¥ 259,270 2.6 15.7 ¥ 235,176 （9.3） 14.5 Marine 51,532 27.3 3.1 46,430 （9.9） 2.8 48,009 3.4 3.0 Personal Accident 115,636 1.9 6.9 114,136 （1.3） 6.9 109,376 （4.2） 6.7 Voluntary Automobile 805,460 （3.1） 48.2 786,916 （2.3） 47.7 776,606 （1.3） 47.7 Compulsory Automobile Liability 261,349 （1.3） 15.7 258,095 （1.2） 15.6 259,078 0.4 15.9 Other 183,667 4.9 11.0 185,698 1.1 11.3 199,092 7.2 12.2 Total ¥1,670,343 （4.0） 100.0 ¥1,650,547 （1.2） 100.0 ¥1,627,340 （1.4） 100.0 130 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section DIRECT PREMIUMS WRITTEN (FY2017) (US$ in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Total ¥3,649.1 Billion Change Share Change Share Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Amount Other, 17.6% Fire and Allied, 17.2% ¥ 602,521 （8.3） 16.7 ¥ 627,029 4.1 17.2 $ 5,915 168,715 27.5 4.7 168,602 （0.1） 4.6 1,591 Marine, 4.6% 321,055 0.3 8.9 320,764 （0.1） 8.8 3,026 Compulsory Automobile Personal 1,524,096 3.3 42.1 1,546,108 1.4 42.4 14,586 Liability, 9.4% Accident, 366,523 2.8 10.1 343,370 （6.3） 9.4 3,239 8.8% 632,874 20.0 17.5 643,233 1.6 17.6 6,068 Voluntary Automobile, 42.4% ¥3,615,785 4.2 100.0 ¥3,649,108 0.9 100.0 $34,426 ¥ 98,546 （15.2） 2.7 ¥ 86,371 （12.4） 2.4 $ 815 NET PREMIUMS WRITTEN (FY2017) (US$ in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Total ¥3,440.9 Billion Change Share Change Share Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Amount Other, 16.5% Fire and Allied, 16.1% ¥ 540,715 14.7 15.9 ¥ 553,183 2.3 16.1 $ 5,219 145,697 37.3 4.3 142,339 （2.3） 4.1 1,343 Marine, 4.1% 237,918 8.9 7.0 240,450 1.1 7.0 2,268 Compulsory Personal Automobile Accident, 1,559,958 4.3 45.8 1,587,008 1.7 46.1 14,972 Liability, 10.2% 7.0% 356,088 （0.4） 10.4 352,063 （1.1） 10.2 3,321 567,010 32.0 16.6 565,931 （0.2） 16.5 5,339 Voluntary Automobile, 46.1% ¥3,407,389 10.7 100.0 ¥3,440,976 1.0 100.0 $32,462 NET CLAIMS PAID (FY2017) (US$ in millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Total ¥1,935.1 Billion Change Share Change Share Amount (%) (%) Amount (%) (%) Amount Other, 14.1% Fire and Allied, 19.5% ¥ 297,850 26.6 16.3 ¥ 378,241 27.0 19.5 $ 3,568 96,981 102.0 5.3 82,302 （15.1） 4.3 776 107,937 （1.3） 5.9 106,233 （1.6） 5.5 1,002 Compulsory Marine, 4.3% Automobile 798,736 2.8 43.6 841,807 5.4 43.5 7,942 Liability, 13.1% Personal Accident, 258,465 （0.2） 14.1 252,990 （2.1） 13.1 2,387 5.5% 271,905 36.6 14.8 273,589 0.6 14.1 2,581 Voluntary Automobile, 43.5% ¥1,831,876 12.6 100.0 ¥1,935,165 5.6 100.0 $18,256 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 131 Policies in Force and New Policies — Domestic Life Insurance (Unaudited) (a) Policies in Force (Yen in millions) (US$ in millions) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Change Change Change Change Change Amount (%) Amount (%) Amount (%) Amount (%) Amount (%) Amount Individual insurance ¥21,391,387 8.1 ¥22,676,597 6.0 ¥24,277,843 7.1 ¥25,813,254 6.3 ¥26,882,564 4.1 $253,609 Individual annuities 3,738,051 （5.5） 3,638,524 （2.7） 3,208,994 （11.8） 3,081,777 （4.0） 2,986,168 （3.1） 28,171 Group insurance 5,124,978 （0.8） 5,301,496 3.4 6,518,709 23.0 7,074,353 8.5 7,859,834 11.1 74,149 Group annuities 399 （6.9） 369 （7.7） 351 （4.7） 325 （7.4） 302 （7.1） 3 Notes:1. The amounts of individual annuities represent the total sum of (a) the funds to be held at the time annuity payments are to commence (the premium reserves in the case of individual variable annuities) for the policies for which annuity payments have not yet commenced and (b) the underwriting reserves for the policies for which annuity payments have commenced. 2. The amounts of group annuities represent the underwriting reserves. (b) New Policies (Yen in millions) (US$ in millions) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Individual insurance ¥3,235,603 ¥3,307,082 ¥3,495,356 ¥3,249,483 ¥3,438,585 $32,439 Individual annuities 237,132 198,867 190,634 159,925 216,635 2,044 Group insurance 104,852 88,702 1,005,973 61,074 144,570 1,364 Group annuities – – – – – – Note: The amounts of individual annuities represent the funds to be held at the time annuity payments are to commence (the premium reserves at the time of enrollment in the case of individual variable annuities). 132 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Investment Assets and Investments in Securities (Unaudited) (a) Investment Assets FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 (Yen in millions) (Yen in millions) (US$ in millions) Amount Share Amount Share Amount Deposits and savings ¥ 1,419,153 6.7% ¥ 1,481,589 6.6% $ 13,977 Call loans 15,000 0.1 – – – Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 0.0 6,999 0.0 66 Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 285,455 1.3 309,644 1.4 2,921 Monetary claims bought 111,320 0.5 140,133 0.6 1,322 Money trusts 971,119 4.6 1,043,506 4.6 9,844 Investments in securities 15,303,103 72.1 16,152,966 71.9 152,386 Loans 886,316 4.2 892,599 4.0 8,421 Land and buildings 428,845 2.0 422,831 1.9 3,989 Total investment assets ¥19,427,313 91.5% ¥20,450,271 91.0% $192,927 Total assets ¥21,234,300 100.0% ¥22,472,927 100.0% $212,009 (b) Investments in Securities FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 (Yen in millions) (Yen in millions) (US$ in millions) Amount Share Amount Share Amount Government bonds ¥ 3,809,185 24.9% ¥ 3,887,198 24.1% $ 36,672 Municipal bonds 273,964 1.8 296,667 1.8 2,799 Corporate bonds 1,574,639 10.3 1,621,792 10.0 15,300 Stock 2,693,726 17.6 2,906,719 18.0 27,422 Foreign securities 4,295,138 28.1 4,870,634 30.2 45,949 Other securities 2,656,449 17.3 2,569,954 15.9 24,245 Total ¥15,303,103 100.0% ¥16,152,966 100.0% $152,386 Note: Other securities consists mainly of investment trusts managed in separate accounts. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 133 Consolidated Balance Sheets MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2017 and 2018 Yen in millions US$ in millions Assets 2017 2018 2018 Cash, deposits and savings ¥ 1,419,267 ¥ 1,481,694 $ 13,978 Call loans 15,000 – – Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 6,999 66 Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 285,455 309,644 2,921 Monetary claims bought 111,320 140,133 1,322 Money trusts 971,119 1,043,506 9,844 Investments in securities 15,303,103 16,152,966 152,386 Loans 886,316 892,599 8,421 Tangible fixed assets: Land 232,151 231,456 2,184 Buildings 196,693 191,374 1,805 Lease assets 2,943 2,711 26 Construction in progress 1,658 2,379 22 Other tangible fixed assets 31,508 31,701 299 Total tangible fixed assets 464,955 459,624 4,336 Intangible fixed assets: Software 74,572 57,491 542 Goodwill 163,415 229,221 2,162 Lease assets 3 218 2 Other intangible fixed assets 179,164 262,570 2,477 Total intangible fixed assets 417,156 549,502 5,184 Other assets 1,225,719 1,297,829 12,244 Assets for retirement benefits 32,452 30,645 289 Deferred tax assets 55,660 68,026 642 Customers' liabilities under acceptances and guarantees 50,530 49,500 467 Bad debt reserve （10,756） （9,746） （92） Total assets ¥21,234,300 ¥22,472,927 $212,009 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 134 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Yen in millions US$ in millions Liabilities and Net Assets 2017 2018 2018 Liabilities Policy liabilities: Outstanding claims ¥ 1,982,354 ¥ 2,213,650 $ 20,883 Underwriting reserves 14,173,799 14,750,861 139,159 Total policy liabilities 16,156,153 16,964,512 160,043 Bonds issued 456,191 558,191 5,266 Other liabilities 1,226,769 1,328,675 12,535 Liabilities for pension and retirement benefits 190,562 184,569 1,741 Reserve for retirement benefits for officers 640 538 5 Accrued bonuses for employees 28,396 27,592 260 Reserve for reorganization by function 22,097 16,341 154 Reserves under the special laws: Reserve for price fluctuation 194,960 152,928 1,443 Total reserves under the special laws 194,960 152,928 1,443 Deferred tax liabilities 173,566 221,690 2,091 Acceptances and guarantees 50,530 49,500 467 Total liabilities 18,499,867 19,504,540 184,005 Net Assets Shareholders’ equity: Common stock 100,000 100,000 943 Capital surplus 669,458 554,320 5,229 Retained earnings 775,877 849,044 8,010 Treasury stock （120,050） （2,599） （25） Total shareholders’ equity 1,425,285 1,500,765 14,158 Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss): Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 1,360,859 1,487,258 14,031 Net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges 23,472 20,043 189 Foreign currency translation adjustments （91,219） （66,274） （625） Accumulated actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefits （9,420） （679） （6） Total accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 1,283,692 1,440,346 13,588 Stock acquisition rights 307 566 5 Non-controlling interests 25,147 26,709 252 Total net assets 2,734,432 2,968,387 28,004 Total liabilities and net assets ¥21,234,300 ¥22,472,927 $212,009 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 135 Consolidated Statements of Income MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 Yen in millions US$ in millions 2017 2018 2018 Ordinary income and expenses Ordinary income: Underwriting income: Net premiums written ¥3,407,389 ¥3,440,976 $32,462 Deposit premiums from policyholders 98,546 86,371 815 Investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders 45,405 43,130 407 Life insurance premiums 1,253,167 1,058,278 9,984 Other underwriting income 6,353 19,353 183 Total underwriting income 4,810,863 4,648,110 43,850 Investment income: Interest and dividends income 272,556 286,229 2,700 Investment gains on money trusts 16,056 8,795 83 Investment gains on trading securities 50,255 29,424 278 Gains on sales of securities 92,602 151,934 1,433 Gains on redemption of securities 718 1,092 10 Investment gains on separate accounts 81,380 115,299 1,088 Other investment income 39,118 1,194 11 Transfer of investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders （45,405） （43,130） （407） Total investment income 507,283 550,838 5,197 Other ordinary income: Gains on equity method investments 2,112 3,017 28 Other ordinary income 14,980 15,868 150 Total other ordinary income 17,093 18,886 178 Total ordinary income 5,335,239 5,217,835 49,225 Ordinary expenses: Underwriting expenses: Net claims paid 1,831,876 1,935,165 18,256 Loss adjustment expenses 169,562 171,041 1,614 Commissions and collection expenses 681,003 689,066 6,501 Maturity refunds to policyholders 236,800 241,099 2,275 Dividends to policyholders 526 283 3 Life insurance claims 330,897 376,130 3,548 Provision for outstanding claims 71,394 179,565 1,694 Provision for underwriting reserves 908,160 558,519 5,269 Other underwriting expenses 26,131 6,897 65 Total underwriting expenses 4,256,352 4,157,768 39,224 Investment expenses: Investment losses on money trusts 1,034 13,748 130 Losses on sales of securities 12,769 8,996 85 Impairment losses on securities 2,034 1,512 14 Losses on redemption of securities 1,118 584 6 Losses on derivative transactions 31,628 14,498 137 Other investment expenses 6,512 123,843 1,168 Total investment expenses 55,096 163,183 1,539 Operating expenses and general and administrative expenses 653,593 669,640 6,317 Other ordinary expenses: Interest expense 8,986 9,057 85 Provision for bad debt reserve 2,012 – – Losses on bad debts 217 215 2 Amortization of deferred assets under Article 113 of the Insurance Business Act 947 – – Other ordinary expenses 5,420 6,420 61 Total other ordinary expenses 17,584 15,693 148 Total ordinary expenses 4,982,626 5,006,286 47,229 Ordinary profit/(loss) 352,612 211,548 1,996 Extraordinary income and losses Extraordinary income: Gains on sales of fixed assets 3,546 9,316 88 Reversal of reserves under the special laws Reversal of reserve for price fluctuation – 42,032 397 Total reversal of reserves under the special laws – 42,032 397 Total extraordinary income 3,546 51,348 484 Extraordinary losses: Losses on sales of fixed assets 2,456 3,853 36 Impairment losses on fixed assets 5,512 14,724 139 Provision for reserves under the special laws: Provision for reserve for price fluctuation 33,928 – – Total provision for reserves under the special laws 33,928 – – Losses on accelerated depreciation of tangible fixed assets – 11 0 Other extraordinary losses 31,656 – – Total extraordinary losses 73,553 18,589 175 Income/(loss) before income taxes 282,605 244,307 2,305 Income taxes current 105,468 118,432 1,117 Income taxes deferred （34,562） （28,008） （264） Total income taxes 70,906 90,423 853 Net income/(loss) 211,699 153,884 1,452 Net income/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 1,252 （173） （2） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 210,447 ¥ 154,057 $ 1,453 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 136 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 Yen in millions US$ in millions 2017 2018 2018 Net income/(loss) ¥211,699 ¥153,884 $1,452 Other comprehensive income/(loss): Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 33,664 123,681 1,167 Net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges （16,640） （3,316） （31） Foreign currency translation adjustments （114,654） 23,348 220 Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefits （1,073） 8,723 82 Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity method investments 1,298 4,775 45 Total other comprehensive income/(loss) （97,405） 157,211 1,483 Total comprehensive income/(loss) ¥114,294 ¥311,096 $2,935 Allocation: Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent ¥115,115 ¥309,798 $2,923 Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests （821） 1,297 12 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 137 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 2017 (Yen in millions) Shareholders’ equity Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock Total shareholders’ equity Beginning balance ¥100,000 ¥670,646 ¥628,562 ¥（80,065） ¥1,319,143 Changes for the year: Dividends paid （63,223） （63,223） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners 210,447 210,447 of the parent Repurchase of treasury stock （39,985） （39,985） Disposal of treasury stock 0 1 1 Changes in scope of consolidation 91 91 Changes in equity resulting from increase （570） （570） in capital of consolidated subsidiaries Changes in equity resulting from transac（617） （617） tions with non-controlling interests Put options granted to non-controlling – interests Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total changes for the year – （1,188） 147,315 （39,984） 106,142 Ending balance ¥100,000 ¥669,458 ¥775,877 ¥（120,050） ¥1,425,285 Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) Net Accumulated Total Stock NonNet Foreign Total net unrealized actuarial accumulated acquisition controlling deferred currency assets gains/(losses) gains/(losses) other rights interests gains/(losses) translation on investments on retirement comprehensive on hedges adjustments in securities benefits income/(loss) Beginning balance ¥1,324,886 ¥40,113 ¥ 22,369 ¥（8,343） ¥1,379,024 – ¥27,106 ¥2,725,274 Changes for the year: Dividends paid （63,223） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners 210,447 of the parent Repurchase of treasury stock （39,985） Disposal of treasury stock 1 Changes in scope of consolidation 91 Changes in equity resulting from increase （570） in capital of consolidated subsidiaries Changes in equity resulting from transactions with non-controlling （617） interests Put options granted to non-controlling – interests Net changes of items other than 35,973 （16,640） （113,588） （1,076） （95,332） 307 （1,959） （96,984） shareholders’ equity Total changes for the year 35,973 （16,640） （113,588） （1,076） （95,332） 307 （1,959） 9,158 Ending balance ¥1,360,859 ¥23,472 ¥（91,219） ¥（9,420） ¥1,283,692 ¥307 ¥25,147 ¥2,734,432 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 138 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section 2018 (Yen in millions) Shareholders’ equity Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock Total shareholders’ equity Beginning balance ¥100,000 ¥669,458 ¥775,877 ¥（120,050） ¥1,425,285 Changes for the year: Dividends paid （79,975） （79,975） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners 154,057 154,057 of the parent Repurchase of treasury stock （70） （70） Disposal of treasury stock （2） 65 62 Cancellation of treasury stock （117,455） 117,455 – Changes in scope of consolidation – Changes in equity resulting from increase – in capital of consolidated subsidiaries Changes in equity resulting from transac（242） （242） tions with non-controlling interests Put options granted to non-controlling 2,562 2,562 interests Adjustments of retained earnings pertain（914） （914） ing to the U.S. tax reform Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total changes for the year – （115,138） 73,167 117,450 75,479 Ending balance ¥100,000 ¥554,320 ¥849,044 ¥ （2,599） ¥1,500,765 Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) Net Accumulated Total Stock NonNet Foreign Total net unrealized actuarial accumulated acquisition controlling deferred currency assets gains/(losses) gains/(losses) other rights interests gains/(losses) translation on investments on retirement comprehensive on hedges adjustments in securities benefits income/(loss) Beginning balance ¥1,360,859 ¥23,472 ¥（91,219） ¥（9,420） ¥1,283,692 ¥307 ¥25,147 ¥2,734,432 Changes for the year: Dividends paid （79,975） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners 154,057 of the parent Repurchase of treasury stock （70） Disposal of treasury stock 62 Cancellation of treasury stock – Changes in scope of consolidation – Changes in equity resulting from increase – in capital of consolidated subsidiaries Changes in equity resulting from transactions with non-controlling （242） interests Put options granted to non-controlling 2,562 interests Adjustments of retained earnings pertain（914） ing to the U.S. tax reform. Net changes of items other than 126,398 （3,429） 24,944 8,740 156,654 258 1,561 158,475 shareholders’ equity Total changes for the year 126,398 （3,429） 24,944 8,740 156,654 258 1,561 233,955 Ending balance ¥1,487,258 ¥20,043 ¥（66,274） ¥ （679） ¥1,440,346 ¥566 ¥26,709 ¥2,968,387 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 139 2018 (US$ in millions) Shareholders’ equity Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock Total shareholders’ equity Beginning balance $943 $6,316 $7,320 $（1,133） $13,446 Changes for the year: Dividends paid （754） （754） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners 1,453 1,453 of the parent Repurchase of treasury stock （1） （1） Disposal of treasury stock （0） 1 1 Cancellation of treasury stock （1,108） 1,108 – Changes in scope of consolidation – Changes in equity resulting from increase – in capital of consolidated subsidiaries Changes in equity resulting from transac（2） （2） tions with non-controlling interests Put options granted to non-controlling 24 24 interests Adjustments of retained earnings pertain（9） （9） ing to the U.S. tax reform. Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total changes for the year – （1,086） 690 1,108 712 Ending balance $943 $5,229 $8,010 $ （25） $14,158 Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) Net Accumulated Total Stock NonNet Foreign Total net unrealized actuarial accumulated acquisition controlling deferred currency assets gains/(losses) gains/(losses) other rights interests gains/(losses) translation on investments on retirement comprehensive on hedges adjustments in securities benefits income/(loss) Beginning balance $12,838 $221 $（861） $（89） $12,110 $3 $237 $25,797 Changes for the year: Dividends paid （754） Net income/(loss) attributable to owners 1,453 of the parent Repurchase of treasury stock （1） Disposal of treasury stock 1 Cancellation of treasury stock – Changes in scope of consolidation – Changes in equity resulting from increase – in capital of consolidated subsidiaries Changes in equity resulting from （2） transactions with non-controlling interests Put options granted to non-controlling 24 interests Adjustments of retained earnings pertain（9） ing to the U.S. tax reform. Net changes of items other than 1,192 （32） 235 82 1,478 2 15 1,495 shareholders’ equity Total changes for the year 1,192 （32） 235 82 1,478 2 15 2,207 Ending balance $14,031 $189 $（625） $ （6） $13,588 $5 $252 $28,004 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 140 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 Yen in millions US$ in millions 2017 2018 2018 I. Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Income/(loss) before income taxes ¥ 282,605 ¥ 244,307 $ 2,305 Adjustments for: Depreciation 62,184 64,014 604 Impairment losses on fixed assets 5,512 14,724 139 Amortization of goodwill 11,393 11,741 111 Increase/(decrease) in outstanding claims 82,392 160,203 1,511 Increase/(decrease) in underwriting reserves 903,095 546,085 5,152 Increase/(decrease) in bad debt reserve 1,542 （1,348） （13） Increase/(decrease) in reserve for retirement benefits for officers （156） （101） （1） Increase/(decrease) in accrued bonuses for employees （3,096） （1,239） （12） Increase/(decrease) in reserve for reorganization by function 22,097 （5,756） （54） Increase/(decrease) in liabilities for pension and retirement benefits 2,078 6,700 63 Increase/(decrease) in reserve for price fluctuation 33,928 （42,032） （397） Interest and dividends income （272,556） （286,229） （2,700） Losses/(gains) on money trusts （15,075） 4,967 47 Losses/(gains) on investments in securities （127,655） （171,357） （1,617） Losses/(gains) on derivative transactions 31,628 14,498 137 Investment losses/(gains) on separate accounts （81,380） （115,299） （1,088） Interest expense 8,986 9,057 85 Foreign exchange losses/(gains) （31,703） 112,731 1,064 Losses/(gains) on disposal of tangible fixed assets （1,090） （5,580） （53） Losses/(gains) on equity method investments （2,112） （3,017） （28） Decrease/(increase) in other assets （70,445） 13,828 130 Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities 6,834 （4,921） （46） Other, net （19,868） （10,068） （95） Subtotal 829,139 555,908 5,244 Interest and dividends received 355,139 407,933 3,848 Interest paid （10,628） （8,626） （81） Income taxes refunded/(paid) （86,701） （132,575） （1,251） Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities (a) 1,086,948 822,640 7,761 II. Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Net decrease/(increase) in deposits and savings （1,112） （18,260） （172） Purchase of monetary claims bought – （2,601） （25） Proceeds from sales and redemption of monetary claims bought 17,191 37,842 357 Purchase of money trusts （206,384） （128,508） （1,212） Proceeds from sales of money trusts 78,917 52,173 492 Purchase of securities （3,136,168） （3,595,276） （33,918） Proceeds from sales and redemption of securities 2,577,663 2,845,276 26,842 Investment in loans （212,875） （198,795） （1,875） Collection of loans 212,220 184,210 1,738 Net increase/(decrease) in cash collateral under securities borrowing and lending transactions 73,812 （4,848） （46） Other, net 21,800 6,901 65 Subtotal (b) （574,934） （821,886） （7,754） (a + b) 512,013 754 7 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets （20,158） （20,291） （191） Proceeds from sales of tangible fixed assets 8,922 14,461 136 Acquisition of intangible fixed assets （27,608） （47,645） （449） Acquisition of shares of subsidiaries resulting in changes in scope of consolidation – （85,341） （805） Other, net （1,119） （2,401） （23） Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities （614,899） （963,105） （9,086） III. Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Proceeds from borrowings 32,651 55,027 519 Repayments of borrowings （141,389） （30,342） （286） Issuance of bonds 148,961 129,133 1,218 Redemption of bonds （33,890） （28,000） （264） Repurchase of treasury stock （39,985） （70） （1） Dividends paid to shareholders （63,151） （79,887） （754） Dividends paid to non-controlling interests （1,098） （917） （9） Purchase of shares of subsidiaries not resulting in changes in scope of consolidation （617） （964） （9） Other, net （1,678） （1,648） （16） Net cash provided by/(used in) ﬁnancing activities （100,198） 42,329 399 IV. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents （11,451） 5,738 54 V. Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 360,399 （92,396） （872） VI. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,056,407 1,415,903 13,358 VII. Decrease in cash and cash equivalents due to exclusion from scope of consolidation （903） – – VIII. Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥1,415,903 ¥1,323,506 $12,486 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 141 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1. Basis of presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been translated from the consolidated financial statements of MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. (“the Company”) prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Rules of Corporate Accounting, the Enforcement Regulations of the Japanese Insurance Business Act and related rules, and regulations applicable to the non-life insurance industry in general, and in conformity with accounting principles and practices generally accepted in Japan, which may differ in certain respects from accounting principles and practices generally accepted in countries and jurisdictions other than Japan. In preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements, certain additional information has been provided for the consolidated financial statements issued domestically in order to present them in a form that is more familiar to readers outside Japan. The accompanying consolidated financial statements are expressed in Japanese yen. As permitted by the regulations under the Rules of Corporate Accounting, amounts are rounded down to the nearest million of Japanese yen, except for those stated otherwise. As a result, the total amounts in Japanese yen shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not necessarily agree with the sums of the individual amounts. Solely for the convenience of readers, the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2018 have been translated into US dollar at the rate of ¥106=US$1, the approximate exchange rate on the Tokyo foreign exchange market on the last business day of March 2018. Such translation should not be construed as presentations that the Japanese yen amounts have been, should have been, or could in the future be, converted into US dollar at that or any other rate. “Subsidiary” and “Associate” appearing in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto refer to those defined in Article 2 of the Rules of Corporate Accounting. 2. Scope of consolidation (1) Number of consolidated subsidiaries 93 companies Major consolidated subsidiaries are as follows: Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited (“MSI”) Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company, Limited (“ADI”) Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Company, Limited (“MSAL”) Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Company, Limited (“MSPL”) MSIG Holdings (Americas), Inc. MS Amlin plc MSIG Insurance (Malaysia) Bhd. Changes in scope of consolidation MS First Capital Insurance Limited and DTRIC Management Company, Limited have been included in the scope of consolidation since the year ended March 31, 2018 as they became consolidated subsidiaries due to the Company’s acquisition of shares. Aioi Nissay Dowa Europe Limited and 2 other companies have also been included in the scope of consolidation since the year ended March 31, 2018 as they were newly established. Solo Absolute Bonds and Currency Fund and 15 other companies have been excluded from the scope of consolidation during the year ended March 31, 2018 as they are no longer consolidated subsidiaries due to the withdrawal of capital or sales of their shares. (2) Unconsolidated subsidiaries Major unconsolidated subsidiaries are as follows: Anshin Dial Company, Limited MS&AD Systems Company, Limited 142 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Certain subsidiaries including the above subsidiaries are not consolidated, as they are not considered to have any impact on, in all material aspects, the consolidated financial conditions and business performance, in view of the size of their total assets, ordinary income, net income and retained earnings attributable to the Company. 3. Application of equity method (1) Number of associates accounted for under the equity method 15 companies Major associates accounted for under the equity method are as follows: Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited ReAssure Jersey One Limited Changes in scope of application of equity method ReAssure Jersey One Limited and 3 other companies have become equity method affiliates during the year ended March 31, 2018 due to the Company’s acquisition of shares. Miles Smith Holdings Limited has been excluded from the scope of application of the equity method during the year ended March 31, 2018 due to sales of their shares. (2) Other affiliates, including unconsolidated subsidiaries and associates (e.g. Anshin Dial Company, Limited and Zenkankyo Small Amount and Short Term Insurance Holdings, Ltd.), are stated at cost as their effects on the consolidated net income and retained earnings are not considered material, individually and in aggregate. (3) The Company holds 29.9% voting rights of Japan Earthquake Reinsurance Company, Limited (“Japan Earthquake Re”) through MSI and ADI. However, Japan Earthquake Re is not included as an affiliate since the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of Japan Earthquake Re in view of its public nature. 4. Fiscal year of consolidated subsidiaries The fiscal year end of certain consolidated subsidiaries, including MS Amlin plc and 84 other companies, is December 31, which is different from that of the Company. The Company uses the financial statements as of their latest fiscal year end for consolidation purposes since the intervening period does not exceed three months from its fiscal year end. The Company makes adjustments to incorporate significant transactions occurred during the intervening period that materially affect the consolidated financial statements. 5. Accounting policies (1) Valuation policies and methods of securities (including those included in Cash, deposits and savings, and Monetary claims bought as set forth in the Enforcement Regulations of the Japanese Insurance Business Act) (i) Trading securities are valued at their year-end market prices. Cost of sales is calculated using the moving average method. For overseas consolidated subsidiaries, cost of sales is calculated using the first-in, first-out method. (ii) Held-to-maturity securities are valued at amortized cost. (iii) Investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associates that are not accounted for under the equity method are valued at cost determined by the moving average method. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 143 (iv) Debt securities and money trusts earmarked for underwriting reserves are valued at amortized cost determined by the moving average method in accordance with Industry Audit Committee Report No. 21 “Temporary Treatment of Accounting and Auditing Concerning Debt Securities Earmarked for Underwriting Reserve in the Insurance Industry” (issued by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants on November 16, 2000). A summary of the risk management policy for debt securities and money trusts earmarked for underwriting reserves is as follows: To effectively manage risks of variability in interest rates related to assets and liabilities, MSAL establishes subgroups of “individual insurance” that meet certain criteria for each type of insurance and investment policy, as well as applies the investment policy and cash allocation policy reflecting their characteristics. In addition, MSAL periodically assesses whether the durations of the debt securities earmarked for underwriting reserves fall within a certain range from those of the underwriting reserves in each subgroup. To effectively manage risks of variability in interest rates related to assets and liabilities, MSPL establishes subgroups of “individual insurance and individual annuities” that meet certain criteria for each currency, as well as applies the investment policy and cash allocation policy reflecting their characteristics. In addition, MSPL periodically assesses whether the durations of the debt securities earmarked for underwriting reserves fall within a certain range from those of the underwriting reserves in each subgroup. Starting from the year ended March 31, 2018, to improve Asset and Liability Management (ALM) and investment methods appropriate for investment environment, the size of subgroups of certain individual insurance denominated in Australian dollars has been reduced. This change has no effect on the consolidated financial statements. (v) Available-for-sale securities (except for those without practically determinable fair value) are valued at their year-end market prices. Net unrealized gains and losses are reported as a separate line item of net assets. For foreign currency bonds held by certain consolidated subsidiaries, changes in fair values due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates are reported in net unrealized gains and losses in net assets, while the remaining changes are reported as foreign exchange gains and losses in the consolidated financial statements of income. Cost of sales is calculated by the moving average method (vi) Available-for-sale securities without practically determinable fair value are valued at cost using the moving average method. (vii) Money trusts specifically managed for the Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries for trading purposes are valued at their year-end market prices. Money trusts specifically managed for the Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries, other than those held for trading purposes, held to maturity and earmarked for underwriting reserves, are valued on the same basis as available-for-sale securities. (2) Valuation policies and methods of derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are valued at fair value. (3) Depreciation methods of significant depreciable assets (i) Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is computed using the straight-line method. (ii) Intangible fixed assets are amortized by the straight-line method. Capitalized software for internal use is amortized by the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. (4) Accounting policies for significant reserves (i) Bad debt reserve For domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries, bad debt reserve is established under the internal standards for self-assessment of assets and the policy for write-off and provision. Bad debt reserve for loans to debtors who are legally deemed to be insolvent due to bankruptcy or special liquidation, or whose notes are under suspension at clearing houses, and loans to debtors who are deemed to be substantially insolvent is provided based on the outstanding balance remaining after deducting the resale value of collateral and the amount collectible through guarantees. Bad debt reserve for loans to debtors who are likely to become insolvent in the future is provided based on the outstanding balance remaining after deducting the resale value of collateral, the amount collectible through guarantees and the amount expected to be repaid by the debtors considering their overall ability to pay. 144 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section For loans other than those described above, bad debt reserve is calculated by multiplying the outstanding balances by the historical bad debt ratios. Bad debt reserve for all loans and receivables is provided based on the assessment under the internal standards for self-assessment of assets. The assessment is performed by the departments responsible for the respective assets and the results are reviewed by independent internal audit departments. For other domestic consolidated subsidiaries, bad debt reserve is established under their internal standards for self-assessment of assets and policies for provision similar to those of the domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries. For overseas consolidated subsidiaries, bad debt reserve is established based on the assessment of collectability of individual receivables. (ii) Reserve for retirement benefits for officers Reserve for retirement benefits that covers the cost of services rendered by officers and operating officers of MSI and MSAL up to the year ended March 31, 2005, the date on which the retirement benefit plans for officers were terminated, is established based on the estimated amounts to be paid at the year end to provide for future retirement benefits (including pension) for officers and operating officers of MSI and MSAL. (iii) Accrued bonuses for employees Accrued bonuses for employees are determined based on the estimated amounts to be paid at the year-end to provide for future bonuses for employees and operating officers. (iv) Reserve for reorganization by function Reserve for reorganization by function is established based on the estimated costs to be incurred in the future associated with the reorganization by function at domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries of the Company. (v) Reserve for price fluctuation For the domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries, the reserve for price fluctuation is recognized under Article 115 of the Insurance Business Act to provide for possible losses arising from price fluctuation of investment assets such as equity securities. (5) Accounting for retirement benefits (i) Attribution method of retirement benefits over the service period In computing retirement benefit obligations, the estimated retirement benefits are attributed to the periods up to the current year using the plan’s benefit formula. (ii) Accounting for actuarial gains and losses Actuarial gains and losses are amortized, commencing from the following year, using the straight-line method over a certain number of years (primarily 10 11 years) that do not exceed the expected average remaining service period of employees at the time of occurrence. (6) Translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities of the Company are translated into Japanese yen using the spot exchange rate prevailing at the year end. The foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the translation are recognized in earnings. Foreign currency assets and liabilities of overseas consolidated subsidiaries are translated into Japanese yen using the spot exchange rate prevailing at their respective year ends, while shareholders’ equity is translated at the historical rates. Income and expenses of overseas consolidated subsidiaries are translated into Japanese yen using the average exchange rate for the year. Differences arising from such translations are included in Foreign currency translation adjustments and Non-controlling interests in Net Assets. (7) Accounting for consumption taxes Consumption taxes received or paid by the Company and its major domestic consolidated subsidiaries are not included in income or expenses, except for those related to Loss adjustment expenses and Operating expenses and general and administrative expenses incurred by the domestic consolidated non-life insurance subsidiaries. Consumption taxes excluded from income and expenses are recorded at the net amount on the balance sheet. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 145 Non-deductible consumption taxes are recognized as expenses for the period, except for those related to the purchase of depreciable fixed assets that are not charged to expenses but deferred as Other assets and amortized over a period of five years on a straight-line basis. (8) Hedge accounting Under Japanese GAAP, several methodologies are allowed for hedge accounting. Two fundamental approaches are the deferred hedge method and the fair value hedge method. Under the deferred hedge method, gains and losses on changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are deferred and accounted for as a separate line item of net assets. Under the fair value hedge method, which is allowed only with respect to available-for-sale securities being the hedged items, gains and losses on changes in fair value of the hedging instruments are recognized in earnings together with the corresponding gains and losses of the hedged items attributable to the risks being hedged. In addition, for certain derivative financial instruments, alternative treatments are permitted under Japanese GAAP. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and hedged by foreign exchange forward contracts or currency swaps can be accounted for by the allocation method. Under this method, the foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps used as hedging instruments are not measured at fair value since gains and losses on the derivatives are assumed to be offset with changes in fair value of the corresponding hedged items, and hedged items are translated at the foreign exchange rates that are stipulated in the foreign exchange forward contracts or currency swaps (hedging instruments). Interest rate swaps that qualify for hedge accounting and meet specific matching criteria are not remeasured at fair value, but the differentials paid or received under the swap agreements are recognized and included in interest expense or income of the hedged items (the exceptional method). For certain domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries, gains and losses on equity forward contracts used for hedging risks of variability in the fair value of investments in equity securities are accounted for under either the deferred hedge method or the fair value hedge method. Gains and losses on currency swap contracts and certain foreign exchange forward contracts used for hedging risks of variability in foreign exchange rates on foreign currency assets are accounted for under the deferred hedge method, the fair value hedge method or the allocation method. Gains and losses on currency swap contracts used for hedging risks of variability in foreign exchange rates on foreign currency bonds issued by MSI are accounted for under the allocation method. Gains and losses on interest rate swap contracts used for hedging risks of variability in interest rates of loans, bonds and borrowings are accounted for under the deferred hedge method or the exceptional method when they meet certain criteria. Gains and losses on interest rate and currency swap contracts used for hedging risks of variability in foreign exchange rates and interest rates on foreign currency borrowings are accounted for under the integrated method when they meet certain criteria. The integrated method is to hedge foreign currency risks and interest rate risks using the allocation method and the exceptional method, respectively. Certain overseas consolidated subsidiaries use foreign currency borrowings for hedging risks of variability in foreign exchange rates on investments in subsidiaries. Gains and losses on those financial instruments are accounted for under the deferred hedge method. In addition, certain foreign exchange forward contracts are used for hedging instruments in certain overseas consolidated subsidiaries and those are accounted for under the fair value hedge method. Hedge effectiveness is assessed quarterly by comparing cumulative fluctuations in fair value or cash flows of the hedged items and hedging instruments for the periods from the respective start dates of the hedges to the assessment dates. When the hedged items and the hedging instruments are highly and clearly interrelated, when the interest rate swap transactions meet the criteria for the application of the exceptional method, or when the interest rate and currency swap contracts meet the criteria for the application of the integrated method, hedge effectiveness is not assessed. Certain interest rate swap contracts used for the ALM to ensure adequate control of the risks of interest rate variability are accounted for under the deferred hedge method and assessed for hedge effectiveness in accordance with the Industry Audit Committee Report No. 26, “Accounting and Auditing Treatment of Application of the Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments in the Insurance Industry” (issued by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants on September 3, 2002). The hedge effectiveness of interest rate swaps used for the ALM is evaluated on a portfolio basis, based on whether upward and downward movements in the value of the hedged items and the hedging instruments offset each other within a certain range, in respect to changes in the interest rates. 146 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section 6. Goodwill Goodwill is amortized using the straight-line method over its useful life within 20 years. Insignificant amounts of goodwill are charged to expenses as incurred. 7. Cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statement of cash flows In preparing the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents constitute cash on hand, readily available deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities not exceeding three months. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 147 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 1. The amounts of accumulated depreciation and accelerated depreciation of tangible fixed assets are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Accumulated depreciation 360,399 367,326 Accelerated depreciation 14,331 14,255 Note: As permitted under Japanese tax legislation for the purpose of deferral in recognizing taxable income, the acquisition cost of certain qualifying properties is reduced to offset the taxable income that resulted from the sales of assets to be replaced by the acquired assets or receipts of governmental subsidies provided for the acquisition of the new assets. The total amounts deducted from the original acquisition cost of the qualifying properties as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 were ¥14,331 million and ¥14,255 million, respectively. Accelerated depreciation deducted from the original acquisition cost due to receipts of governmental subsidies during the year ended March 31, 2018 was ¥11 million. 2. The carrying amounts of equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associates are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Investments in securities (Domestic stocks) 15,965 17,515 Investments in securities (Foreign securities) 143,840 237,385 Investments in securities (Other securities) 11,399 13,797 3. The amounts of loans to borrowers in bankruptcy, overdue loans, loans overdue for three months or more, and restructured loans are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Loans to borrowers in bankruptcy 34 – Overdue loans 536 272 Loans overdue for three months or more 539 473 Restructured loans 1,633 1,479 Total 2,744 2,225 Note: Loans to borrowers in bankruptcy represent those, excluding any part of bad debts that have been written off, on which accrued interest receivables are not recognized because repayments of the principal or interest have been overdue for considerable periods and regarded uncollectible (hereinafter, this category is referred to as “Loans not accruing interest”) and which meet the conditions prescribed in Article 96, Section 1-3 or 1-4 of the Corporation Tax Act Enforcement Ordinance (Cabinet Order No. 97, 1965). Overdue loans represent loans not accruing interest excluding (a) loans to borrowers in bankruptcy and (b) loans that have been granted a grace period for interest payments in order to assist the debtors’ operational restructuring or financial recovery. Loans overdue for three months or more represent those of which the principal or interest has been past due for three months or more after the contractual due date for repayments of the principal or interest. The loans to borrowers in bankruptcy and overdue loans are excluded from this category. Restructured loans represent those that have been granted favorable terms for the benefit of the debtors, such as interest exemption or reduction, a grace period for interest payments, a grace period for principal repayments or forgiveness of debts for the purpose of the restructuring of, or support to the debtors in financial difficulty. The loans to borrowers in bankruptcy, overdue loans and loans overdue for three months or more are excluded from this category. 4. The amounts of pledged assets and corresponding debt obligations are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Pledged assets: Investments in securities 285,275 346,777 Cash, deposits and savings 23,873 3,876 Money trusts 2,302 2,183 Note: The amounts in the above table primarily consist of collateral assets required for borrowings included in Other liabilities, for international operations and for Real Time Gross Settlement of the current account with the Bank of Japan. Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Corresponding debt obligations: Borrowings 8 – 148 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section 5. The amounts of investments in securities loaned under securities lending agreements are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 603,759 667,614 6. The amounts of assets received as collateral under loan agreements or securities borrowing transactions with cash collateral which the Company has the right to sell or repledge are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Securities 210,947 168,651 Note: All securities in the above table have not been resold or repledged, and are held by the Company and its subsidiaries. 7. The amounts of assets and liabilities in separate accounts under Article 118 of the Insurance Business Act are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 2,553,766 2,420,333 8. Guarantees on transactions conducted by a limited partnership entity are as follows: MSI provides guarantees on transactions conducted by a limited partnership entity. Aggregate net present value of these transactions was ¥192,303 million and ¥130,771 million, respectively in a negative liability position as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018. These amounts were not included in Customers’ liabilities under acceptances and guarantees or Acceptances and guarantees since there was no substantial exposure. 9. The unutilized balances of commitment lines to third parties are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 3,633 5,771 10. Information on financial instruments (1) Qualitative information on financial instruments (i) Policy on financial instruments The Group applies ALM policies to maintain stability of investment returns, safety of assets and sufficient liquidity under an appropriate risk management framework to attain sustainable growth of the net asset value. In addition, the Group is exposed to investment risks such as market risks and credit risks and manages those risks in accordance with the risk management policies of the Group and each group company. The Group’s cash inflows which mainly arise from insurance operations and investment activities are affected by changes in external environment such as occurrences of natural disasters and changes in financial market conditions. To enhance efficiency of funds operations and strengthen financial capacity under such changing conditions, the Group undertakes to raise funds through the issuance of long-term or short-term corporate bonds or other financing methods as the needs arise. (ii) Details of financial instruments and associated risks The Group’s financial assets mainly consist of securities including domestic bonds, domestic stocks and foreign securities, loans and other financial instruments. Risks pertaining to investments include market risks, credit risks, market liquidity risks and other risks. Market risks arise from fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices, foreign exchange rates and other market indicators. Credit risks arise from the deterioration in the financial condition of security issuers and counterparties of loans. Market liquidity risks represent the risks that investment assets are forced to be sold at extremely unfavorable prices under turmoil in the financial markets. The Group utilizes derivative transactions represented by interest rate swaps, interest rate options, bond future contracts, equity index options, equity index future contracts, equity forward contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, currency swaps, currency options, and interest rate and currency swaps for the purpose of hedging risks such as fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. In addition, the Group utilizes credit derivatives and weather derivatives to generate investment returns with consideration given to the associated risks. For details of derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is applied, please refer to “Significant Accounting Policies, 5. Accounting policies, (8) Hedge accounting”. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 149 Derivative transactions involve risks associated with fluctuations in fair value of derivative financial instruments, risks of non-performance resulting from insolvency of counterparties and market liquidity risks. Derivative transactions utilized by the Group are also exposed to these risks. However, market risks associated with derivative transactions utilized for the purpose of hedging are mitigated, as changes in the fair value of hedged items and hedging instruments offset each other. To mitigate credit risks arising from the non-performance of counterparties, most of the Group’s derivative transactions are executed only with select counterparties of high credit quality and diversified among various counterparties. Furthermore, under Credit Support Annex (CSA), the Group obtains collateral from counterparties. (iii) Risk management structure related to financial instruments The Group manages risks in accordance with the basic policy for risk management and internal policies for asset management risks, which stipulate the definition of risks and management method established by the Board of Directors. At major domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries, the trading department is segregated from the back office and risk management departments, and maintains a structure that enables to exercise organizational checks and balances on a daily basis. The risk management department assesses, analyzes and manages risks related to financial instruments by quantifying market and credit risks using the Value-at-Risk (VaR) method and risk limit management based on asset and liability position, and regularly reports the results to the Board of Directors. a. Market risk management The Group maintains and operates a risk management structure taking into account the characteristics of each financial instrument in accordance with its internal policies for market risk management. In addition to monitoring of risk amount by quantifying risks using the VaR method as described above, major domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries manage market risks through the assessment of potential risks that cannot be identified using the VaR method, analysis of sensitivity of existing assets to changes in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates and analysis of concentration and weakness of portfolio. b. Credit risk management The Group maintains and operates a risk management structure in accordance with its internal policies for credit risk management. For securities and derivative transactions at major domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries, the trading and risk management departments manage credit risks of security issuers and derivative counterparties by regularly monitoring the credit information and fair values associated with the investment assets. For loans at MSI, ADI and MSPL, the trading and risk management departments maintain a credit risk management structure through credit screening, setting internal credit ratings and credit limits, managing credit information, requiring collaterals and guarantees where necessary, and resolving delinquent loans on an individual loan basis. c. Liquidity risk management The Group maintains and operates a funding and market liquidity risk management structure in accordance with internal policies for liquidity risk management. The Group’s treasury management classifies funding needs into “ordinary” and “emergency” depending on the urgency level and oversees operation and management for the liquidity in each level, which gives the foremost consideration to the liquidity risk. The treasury management also ensures the diversification of fundraising activities to secure and maintain liquidity in various environments. The Group manages funding liquidity risks by holding a sufficient amount of cash, savings and deposits, and highly liquid securities such as government bonds, and regularly monitoring their aggregate amounts in case of unexpected events like catastrophes and the deterioration of funding liquidity arising from turmoil in the financial markets. (iv) Supplementary explanation of matters related to the fair value of financial instruments and other information The fair value of financial instruments is determined based on market prices and, when market prices are not available, based on reasonable estimates. In determining fair value, certain assumptions and methods are used, thus the fair value may differ if alternative assumptions are applied. (2) Supplementary information on fair value of financial instruments The following tables summarize the carrying amounts on the consolidated balance sheets and the fair values of financial instruments as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 together with their differences. The following tables exclude financial instruments in which the fair values are not practically determinable (see Note 2). 150 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Yen in millions March 31, 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Difference (i) Cash, deposits and savings 1,419,267 1,419,683 415 (ii) Call loans 15,000 15,000 – (iii) Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 6,999 – (iv) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 285,455 285,455 – (v) Monetary claims bought 111,320 111,320 – (vi) Money trusts 971,119 971,119 – (vii) Investments in securities: Trading securities 3,188,376 3,188,376 – Held-to-maturity securities 1,032,755 1,223,936 191,181 Debt securities earmarked for underwriting reserves 1,697,252 1,721,469 24,216 Available-for-sale securities 9,071,223 9,071,223 – (viii) Loans 886,316 Bad debt reserve (*1) （347） 885,969 894,888 8,918 Total assets 18,684,739 18,909,472 224,732 Bonds issued 456,191 476,218 20,027 Total liabilities 456,191 476,218 20,027 Derivative transactions (*2): Hedge accounting not applied 19,113 19,113 – Hedge accounting applied 23,924 23,924 – Total derivative transactions 43,038 43,038 – (*1) Bad debt reserve for loans is deducted from the carrying amount. (*2) Derivative assets and liabilities included in Other assets and Other liabilities, are presented on a net basis. Debits and credits arising from derivative transactions are netted. Yen in millions March 31, 2018 Carrying amount Fair value Difference (i) Cash, deposits and savings 1,481,694 1,482,317 622 (ii) Call loans – – – (iii) Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 6,999 – (iv) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 309,644 309,644 – (v) Monetary claims bought 140,133 140,133 – (vi) Money trusts 1,043,506 1,043,506 – (vii) Investments in securities: Trading securities 3,161,390 3,161,390 – Held-to-maturity securities 1,046,667 1,249,687 203,019 Debt securities earmarked for underwriting reserves 2,068,105 2,113,846 45,741 Available-for-sale securities 9,471,689 9,471,689 – (viii) Loans 892,599 Bad debt reserve (*1) （138） 892,460 902,594 10,133 Total assets 19,622,293 19,881,809 259,516 Bonds issued 558,191 579,472 21,281 Total liabilities 558,191 579,472 21,281 (*2) Derivative transactions : Hedge accounting not applied 21,556 21,556 – Hedge accounting applied 18,689 18,689 – Total derivative transactions 40,246 40,246 – (*1) Bad debt reserve for loans is deducted from the carrying amount. (*2) Derivative assets and liabilities included in Other assets and Other liabilities, are presented on a net basis. Debits and credits arising from derivative transactions are netted. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 151 (Note 1) Determination of fair value of financial instruments Assets (i) Cash, deposits and savings With regard to deposits and savings, the fair value is measured at the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at interest rates applicable to the same type of new deposits and savings based on duration. With regard to deposits and savings without fixed maturities and short-term deposits and savings, the book value is deemed as the fair value due to their demand feature or short term duration. (ii) Call loans With regard to Call loans, the book value approximates the fair value since they are scheduled to be settled within a short period. (iii) Receivables under resale agreements With regard to Receivables under resale agreements, the book value approximates the fair value since they are scheduled to be settled within a short period. (iv) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions With regard to Receivables under securities borrowing transactions, the book value approximates the fair value since they are scheduled to be settled within a short period. (v) Monetary claims bought With regard to commercial papers (CP), the price quoted by counterparty financial institutions is deemed as the fair value. With regard to certain CP, the book value approximates the fair value since they are scheduled to be settled within a short period. With regard to Monetary claims bought other than CP, the price quoted by counterparty financial institutions is deemed as the fair value. (vi) Money trusts With regard to Money trusts, the price quoted by trustees is deemed as the fair value. (vii) Investments in securities The fair value of equity securities is determined based on the quoted market price, while the fair value of bonds is determined based on the price quoted by exchanges, independent price venders or counterparty financial institutions. (viii) Loans With regard to floating rate loans, the book value approximates the fair value contingent on no significant changes in the credit conditions of the debtor, because the floating rates on the loans reflect market interest rates. With regard to fixed rate loans, for loans sorted by type, term and credit rating, the fair value is based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at market interest rates, such as yields on government bonds, plus a credit spread. The fair value of certain personal loans is determined at the net present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at interest rates applicable to the same type of new loans. With regard to policy loans that do not have contractual maturities, as the loan amount is limited to the surrender value, the carrying amount approximates the fair value, considering their estimated repayment periods and interest rates. With regard to loans to debtors that are legally or substantially bankrupt and loans to doubtful debtors, the carrying amount less bad debt reserve is deemed as the fair value, because the bad debt reserve is determined based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows or the value of the collateral and the amount collectible through guarantees. Liabilities Bonds issued With regard to Bonds issued, the fair value is determined based on “Reference Statistical Prices for OTC Bond Transactions” published by the Japan Securities Dealers Association or prices quoted by counterparty financial institutions. Derivative transactions With regard to derivative transactions, the fair value is determined based on published forward exchange rates, closing prices at major exchanges, prices quoted by counterparty financial institutions or prices calculated by the option pricing model. 152 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section (Note 2) The carrying amounts of financial instruments in which the fair values are not practically determinable, which are not included in “(vii) Investments in securities” above, are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Unlisted stocks and other assets invested in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associates 171,204 268,698 Other unlisted stocks 84,285 83,108 Unlisted investment trusts 12,651 22,093 Partnership investments comprised of unlisted stocks 45,354 31,213 Total 313,495 405,114 The fair value of the financial instruments in the above table is not disclosed because their fair value is not practically determinable due to lack of marketability and difficulties in reasonably estimating future cash flows. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 153 (Note 3) Maturity analysis of monetary assets and securities with fixed maturities Yen in millions March 31, 2017 Within 1 year Over 1 to 5 years Over 5 to 10 years Over 10 years Cash, deposits and savings 1,406,219 12,871 74 0 Call loans 15,000 – – – Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 – – – Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 285,455 – – – Monetary claims bought 92,927 – – 17,158 Investments in securities: Held-to-maturity securities Government bonds – – 100,200 778,000 Corporate bonds 7,007 14,500 23,502 88,400 Debt securities earmarked for underwriting reserves: Government bonds – – – 202,900 Municipal bonds – 400 – 5,500 Corporate bonds 5,400 12,800 600 61,750 Foreign securities 127 35,422 1,197,382 144,306 Available-for-sale securities with fixed maturities: Government bonds 124,604 689,350 670,230 934,464 Municipal bonds 8,084 54,200 84,344 91,700 Corporate bonds 170,348 607,913 407,042 120,055 Foreign securities 73,553 475,380 885,155 116,062 Loans (*) 91,763 256,513 348,725 122,403 Total 2,287,489 2,159,352 3,717,256 2,682,700 (*) The amounts in the above table do not include ¥692 million of loans in which repayments cannot be expected since the debtors are legally bankrupt, substantially bankrupt or likely to go bankrupt and ¥66,690 million of loans without fixed maturities. Yen in millions March 31, 2018 Within 1 year Over 1 to 5 years Over 5 to 10 years Over 10 years Cash, deposits and savings 1,463,957 17,664 – 0 Call loans – – – – Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 – – – Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 309,644 – – – Monetary claims bought 126,538 – – 12,748 Investments in securities: Held-to-maturity securities: Government bonds – – 119,900 780,400 Corporate bonds 5,200 9,300 28,002 84,100 Debt securities earmarked for underwriting reserves: Government bonds – – – 395,400 Municipal bonds – 400 – 6,600 Corporate bonds 6,100 9,433 1,550 82,400 Foreign securities 921 112,195 1,289,977 145,228 Available-for-sale securities with fixed maturities: Government bonds 123,716 788,304 438,420 936,104 Municipal bonds 7,917 55,293 112,024 85,450 Corporate bonds 157,786 696,269 418,208 76,075 Foreign securities 71,956 499,074 893,919 182,249 Loans (*) 80,331 288,305 341,592 114,612 Total 2,361,070 2,476,240 3,643,595 2,901,368 (*) The amounts in the above table do not include ¥365 million of loans in which repayments cannot be expected since the debtors are legally bankrupt, substantially bankrupt or likely to go bankrupt, and ¥67,710 million of loans without fixed maturities. 154 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section (Note 4) Maturity analysis of bonds issued Yen in millions March 31, 2017 Within 1 year Over 1 to 2 years Over 2 to 3 years Over 3 to 4 years Over 4 to 5 years Over 5 years Bonds issued – – – – – 456,191 Total – – – – – 456,191 Yen in millions March 31, 2018 Within 1 year Over 1 to 2 years Over 2 to 3 years Over 3 to 4 years Over 4 to 5 years Over 5 years Bonds issued – – – – 22,000 536,191 Total – – – – 22,000 536,191 11. Certain consolidated subsidiaries own investment properties in Tokyo and other areas. The carrying amounts, changes in carrying amounts and fair value of the investment properties are as follows: Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Carrying amount 80,378 75,405 Fair value 138,665 136,583 Notes: 1. Carrying amount represents the acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation. 2. Fair value is primarily determined based on the appraisal values provided by qualified external appraisers. With respect to the properties with no substantial changes in their appraisal values or indices that were considered to appropriately reflect market prices since most recent appraisal dates, the fair value is determined based on these appraisal values or the values adjusted by the relevant indices. 12. Business combination (Business combination through acquisition) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited (“MSI”), a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, acquired shares of First Capital Insurance Limited (“FC”). FC is the largest non-life insurance company in Singapore and was affiliated with Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited (“Fairfax”), a leading insurance and financial services group in Canada. As a result of this acquisition, FC became a subsidiary of MSI and was renamed to MS First Capital Insurance Limited (“MSFC”). (1) Overview of business combination (i) Name and business description of acquired company Name of acquired company: First Capital Insurance Limited Description of business: Non-life insurance business (ii) Primary reasons for business combination With the acquisition of FC, MSI aims to achieve high growth and enhance profitability in Singapore market, maintain and develop its leading position in the ASEAN market, and realize further growth in the global market through its partnership with Fairfax. (iii) Date of business combination December 28, 2017 (deemed date of acquisition: December 31, 2017) (iv) Legal form of business combination Acquisition of shares (v) Name of acquired company after the business combination MS First Capital Insurance Limited (vi) Percentage share of voting rights acquired 97.7% INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 155 (vii) Primary reasons for determination of controlling company MSI is the controlling entity, as MSI acquired 97.7% of the voting rights of FC. (2) Period of the acquired company’s financial results included in the consolidated financial statements The acquired company’s fiscal year end is December 31 and the intervening period does not exceed three months from the Company’s fiscal year end, therefore the Company uses the financial statements of the acquired company as of December 31, 2017 for consolidation purposes. The acquired company’s financial results are not included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2018, because the deemed acquisition date was December 31, 2017 and only the balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is consolidated. (3) Acquisition cost and breakdown by class of consideration SGD in millions Consideration for acquisition Cash 2,214 Total acquisition cost 2,214 (4) Description and amount of major acquisition-related costs Advisory fee and others ¥1,057 million (5) Amount and source of goodwill and amortization method and period (i) Amount of goodwill SGD 901 million (ii) Source of goodwill The investment amount under the share acquisition agreement exceeded the net amount of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. (iii) Amortization method and period The goodwill is to be amortized using the straight-line method over 20 years. (6) Amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date and their major components SGD in millions Cash, deposits and savings 1,177 Intangible fixed assets 679 Other assets 901 Total assets 2,757 Policy liabilities 1,090 Other liabilities 336 Total liabilities 1,426 (7) Details of contingent consideration specified in the agreement of business combination and accounting policy after the completion of business combination during the current fiscal year (i) Details of contingent consideration As per the business combination agreement, the contingent consideration for the acquisition will be increased or decreased based on the revaluation at some point in the future in relation to the acquired company’s insurance liabilities at the date of the business combination. (ii) Accounting policy after the completion of business combination during the current fiscal year If there is increase or decrease in the consideration for acquisition, the acquisition price as well as amount of goodwill and amortization of goodwill are adjusted accordingly. 156 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section 13. The amounts of net assets per share are as follows: March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Net assets per share (in Yen) 4,572.82 4,964.64 Stock acquisition rights deducted from net assets (in Yen million) 307 566 Non-controlling interests deducted from net assets (in Yen million) 25,147 26,709 Outstanding common shares (in thousands) 592,407 592,411 14. Significant subsequent events Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited (“MSI”), a subsidiary of the Company, reached an agreement with Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (“CMLA”), a life insurance subsidiary of a leading Australian bank, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, on May 22, 2018, to purchase from CMLA 37.5% shares in BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited, a China-based subsidiary of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. (“BoComm”). (1) Objectives of the investment MSI aims to enhance profitability and achieve further risk diversification by entering into China’s life insurance market; secure strong business base in the country’s life insurance market by partnering with BoComm (one of the major five Chinese banks); and develop a strong, stable and lasting bancassurance channel. (2) Name of the counterparty of the share acquisition Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (3) Name, business and size of the company whose shares are acquired Company name: BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited Business: Life insurance business Company size as at the end of December 2017: Total assets RMB 33,256 million (4) Investment amount and shareholding ratio after the acquisition Investment amount: RMB 4.325 billion Shareholding ratio after the acquisition: 37.5% (5) Scheduled date of the share acquisition Subject to the receipt of approvals from the relevant authorities, etc. (6) Source of fund Cash on hand held by MSI INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 157 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 1. The amounts of gains/(losses) on derivative transactions to reduce the currency risks of foreign currency reinsurance transactions, included in other underwriting income/(expenses), are as follows: Yen in millions For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 3 （1,881） 2. The amounts of foreign exchange gains/(losses) included in other investment income/(expenses) are as follows: Yen in millions For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 36,938 （118,752） 3. Major components of business expenses are as follows: Yen in millions For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Commission expenses 659,449 661,080 Salaries 301,507 310,320 Note: Business expenses represent the aggregate amount of Loss adjustment expenses, Operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, and Commissions and collection expenses presented in the consolidated statements of income. 4. Impairment losses recognized on fixed assets are as follows: For the year ended March 31, 2017 Yen in millions Impairment losses on fixed assets Use Category Description Breakdown Investment properties Land and buildings 4 properties, including a building for rent in 4 Land 2 Saitama Buildings 1 Idle real estate and real estate for sale Land and buildings 35 properties, including an office building in 2,925 Land 788 Aichi Buildings 1,971 Other 166 Other Other intangible fixed Software related to insurance business 2,582 – – assets operations held by overseas consolidated subsidiaries Fixed assets used for the insurance business operations are grouped as a single asset group by each consolidated insurance company. Other assets such as investment properties, idle assets and assets for sale are grouped on an individual basis. Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as a significant decline in the value of the asset (asset group) or a change in the intended use of the asset, indicate that the carrying amount of the asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is measured by the amount in which the carrying amount of the asset (asset group) exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of 1) the sum of discounted cash flows from the continued use and eventual disposition of the asset (asset group) and 2) the net sales value at disposition. As the land and buildings in the above table were to be disposed in the near future, the aggregate difference between the carrying amounts of the assets and recoverable amounts was recognized as impairment losses on fixed assets under Extraordinary losses. The recoverable amounts of these assets represent their net sales value, which are determined based on the appraisal value provided by qualified appraisers. For the other intangible fixed assets, the portion of carrying amounts of the software being developed by overseas consolidated subsidiaries, which there is no definite plan to use with at present, is recognized as impairment losses. 158 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section For the year ended March 31, 2018 Yen in millions Impairment losses on fixed assets Use Category Description Breakdown Buildings 42 Buildings, other Software and others held by domestic Fixed assets used for insurance business Other tangible tangible fixed assets consolidated subsidiary (au Insurance 1,094 operations fixed assets 89 and software Company Limited) Software 962 Land 43 6 properties, including a building for rent in Investment properties Land and buildings 186 Buildings 142 Chiba Land 597 Idle real estate and real estate for sale 25 properties, including an office building in Land and buildings 1,792 Buildings 1,195 and others Tokyo Other tangible Software and others held by overseas Other (idle assets) Software and others 1,163 fixed assets 291 consolidated subsidiaries Software 872 Software 1,534 Software, goodwill Goodwill and others related to telematics Goodwill 5,677 – and other intangible automobile insurance business operations in 10,487 Other intangible fixed assets the UK fixed assets 3,276 Fixed assets used for the insurance business operations are grouped as a single asset group by each consolidated insurance company. Other assets such as investment properties, idle assets and assets for sale are grouped on an individual basis. For fixed assets used for the insurance business operations, the entire carrying amount is recognized as impairment losses on fixed assets under Extraordinary losses because income from business operations of au Insurance Company Limited, a domestic consolidated subsidiary of the Company, has continuously shown negative amount indicating that the carrying amount of the relevant asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. As the investment properties, idle real estate and assets for sale in the above table were to be disposed in the near future or determined to be torn down, the aggregate difference between the carrying amounts of the assets and recoverable amounts was recognized as impairment losses on fixed assets under Extraordinary losses. The recoverable amounts of assets to be disposed represent their net sales value, which are determined based on the appraisal value provided by qualified appraisers, while the recoverable amounts of assets determined to be torn down represent their residual value. For other idle assets, the portion of carrying amounts of the software being held by overseas consolidated subsidiaries, which there is no definite plan to use with, is recognized as impairment losses. During the review of the Company’s business plan, an impairment test was conducted for goodwill related to telematics automobile insurance business operations in the UK. As a result of the test, the aggregate difference between the carrying amounts of the assets and recoverable amounts was recognized as impairment losses on fixed assets under Extraordinary losses. The recoverable amounts are measured by value in use, determined by discounting the future cash flows at 10.5%. 5. Details of Other extraordinary losses are as follows: For the year ended March 31, 2017 Other extraordinary losses represent costs for reorganization by function such as system development costs recognized at domestic consolidated insurance subsidiaries of the Company in the amount of ¥26,337 million (including a provision for reserve for reorganization by function of ¥22,097 million) and costs for reorganization recognized at overseas consolidated subsidiaries in the amount of ¥5,319 million. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 159 6. The amounts of net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent per share are as follows: For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Basic net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent per share (in Yen) 350.94 260.04 Diluted net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent per share (in Yen) 350.90 259.98 Note: The basis of calculation is as follows: For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Net income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent (Yen in millions) 210,447 154,057 Average outstanding common stock during the year (in thousands of shares) 599,655 592,418 Increase in number of common stock used for calculation of diluted net income/(loss) attributable to owners 74 147 of the parent (in thousands of shares) 160 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1. Reclassification adjustments and income tax effects of other comprehensive income/(loss) Yen in millions 2017 2018 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities: Gains/(losses) arising during the period 114,896 317,048 Reclassification adjustments （80,311） （141,917） Before income tax effect adjustments 34,585 175,131 Income tax effects （920） （51,449） Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 33,664 123,681 Net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges: Gains/(losses) arising during the period （13,289） 833 Reclassification adjustments （5,208） （5,368） Before income tax effect adjustments （18,498） （4,535） Income tax effects 1,857 1,218 Net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges （16,640） （3,316） Foreign currency translation adjustments: Gains/(losses) arising during the period （114,654） 23,348 Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefits: Gains/(losses) arising during the period （4,129） 7,923 Reclassification adjustments 3,786 4,091 Before income tax effect adjustments （343） 12,014 Income tax effects （730） （3,290） Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefits （1,073） 8,723 Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity method investments: Gains/(losses) arising during the period 3,337 6,063 Reclassification adjustments （2,039） （1,288） Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity method investments 1,298 4,775 Total other comprehensive income/(loss) （97,405） 157,211 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 161 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS For the year ended March 31, 2017 1. Type and number of issued stock and treasury stock in thousands of shares Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance Issued stock: Common stock 633,291 – – 633,291 Total 633,291 – – 633,291 Treasury stock: Common stock 29,618 11,265 0 40,884 Total 29,618 11,265 0 40,884 Notes： 1. The increase in the number of treasury common stock during the year was 11,265 thousand shares, as a result of open market repurchases of 11,250 thousand shares and repurchases of 14 thousand fractional shares. 2. The decrease in the number of treasury common stock during the year was 0 thousand shares, as a result of sales of fractional stock. 2. Stock acquisition rights Yen in millions Category Breakdown Ending balance Filer Stock acquisition rights as stock options 307 Total 307 3. Dividends (1) Dividends paid Aggregate amount of Dividends per share dividends Resolution Type of shares (Yen in millions) (in Yen) Date of record Effective date General shareholders’ meeting held on Common stock 33,202 55 March 31, 2016 June 23, 2016 June 22, 2016 Board meeting held on November 18, Common stock 30,021 50 September 30, 2016 December 6, 2016 2016 Note：Date of record is the date to determine shareholders who are entitled to receive dividends. (2) Dividends declared effective after March 31, 2017 for which the date of record is in the year ended March 31, 2017 Aggregate amount Dividends per share of dividends Resolution Type of shares (Yen in millions) Source of dividends (in Yen) Date of record Effective date General shareholders’ meeting to be Common stock 41,468 Retained earnings 70 March 31, 2017 June 27, 2017 held on June 26, 2017 Note：Date of record is the date to determine shareholders who are entitled to receive dividends. 162 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section For the year ended March 31, 2018 1. Type and number of issued stock and treasury stock in thousands of shares Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance Issued stock: Common stock 633,291 – 40,000 593,291 Total 633,291 – 40,000 593,291 Treasury stock: Common stock 40,884 19 40,022 880 Total 40,884 19 40,022 880 Notes： 1. The decrease in the number of issued common stock during the year was 40,000 thousand shares, as a result of the cancellation of treasury stock. 2. The increase in the number of treasury common stock during the year was 19 thousand shares, as a result of the repurchase of fractional stock. 3. The decrease in the number of treasury common stock during the year was 40,022 thousand shares, as a result of the cancellation of treasury stock of 40,000 thousand shares, exercise of stock acquisition rights of 21 thousand shares, and sales of 0 thousand fractional shares. 2. Stock acquisition rights Yen in millions Category Breakdown Ending balance Filer Stock acquisition rights as stock options 566 Total 566 3. Dividends (1) Dividends paid Aggregate amount of Dividends per share dividends Resolution Type of shares (Yen in millions) (in Yen) Date of record Effective date General shareholders’ meeting held Common stock 41,468 70 March 31, 2017 June 27, 2017 on June 26, 2017 Board meeting held on November 17, Common stock 38,507 65 September 30, 2017 December 5, 2017 2017 Note：Date of record is the date to determine shareholders who are entitled to receive dividends. (2) Dividends declared effective after March 31, 2018 for which the date of record is in the year ended March 31, 2018 Aggregate amount Dividends per share of dividends Resolution Type of shares (Yen in millions) Source of dividends (in Yen) Date of record Effective date General shareholders’ meeting to be Common stock 38,506 Retained earnings 65 March 31, 2018 June 26, 2018 held on June 25, 2018 Note：Date of record is the date to determine shareholders who are entitled to receive dividends. 4. Put options granted to non-controlling interests Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe Limited granted put options for shares of Box Innovation Group Limited (“BIG”), its consolidated subsidiary, to its non-controlling shareholders. The changes in the redemption value of such options were recognized as increase/decrease in Capital surplus. 5. Adjustments of retained earnings pertaining to the US tax reform The consolidated subsidiaries of the Company located in the United States adopted ASU 2018-02 Income Statement Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects From Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. The effect of the decrease in the US federal corporate income tax rate resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for the year ended March 31, 2018. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 163 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 1. Reconciliation of balance sheet items to cash and cash equivalents Yen in millions 2017 2018 Cash, deposits and savings 1,419,267 1,481,694 Call loans 15,000 – Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 6,999 Monetary claims bought 111,320 140,133 Investments in securities 15,303,103 16,152,966 Time deposits with original maturity of more than three months （161,987） （253,539） Monetary claims bought other than cash equivalents （61,279） （94,551） Investments in securities other than cash equivalents （15,216,521） （16,110,197） Cash and cash equivalents 1,415,903 1,323,506 2. Major components of assets and liabilities of newly consolidated subsidiaries due to acquisition of shares For the year ended March 31, 2018 MSFC has been included in the scope of consolidation due to acquisition of shares. The components of assets and liabilities at the acquisition date, the acquisition cost of MSFC’s shares and net consideration paid for acquisition of MSFC are as follows: Yen in millions Cash, deposits and savings 99,525 Intangible fixed assets 57,394 Other assets 76,084 233,003 Goodwill 76,149 Policy liabilities （92,155） Other liabilities （28,352） Total liabilities （120,507） Foreign currency translation adjustments （2,519） Non-controlling interests （2,576） Acquisition cost of MSFC’s shares 183,549 Less: Cash and cash equivalents held at MSFC 99,525 Net consideration paid for acquisition of MSFC 84,024 3. Cash flows from investing activities include those from investments made as part of the insurance business. 164 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Independent Auditor’s Report INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 165 Summary of Business Results of Main Consolidated Subsidiaries MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Balance Sheets Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Assets) Cash, deposits and savings: ¥ 389,027 ¥ 421,714 Cash on hand 81 76 Deposits in banks 388,945 421,638 Receivables under resale agreements 6,999 6,999 Monetary claims bought 20,393 13,598 Money trusts 3,500 3,728 Investments in securities: 5,294,691 5,635,635 Government bonds 1,263,321 1,192,826 Municipal bonds 88,898 88,038 Corporate bonds 495,736 524,990 Domestic stocks 1,806,870 1,937,182 Foreign securities 1,604,888 1,854,804 Other securities 34,974 37,792 Loans: 418,146 393,362 Policy loans 7,672 7,133 General loans 410,474 386,228 Tangible fixed assets: 210,723 205,648 Land 77,391 76,499 Buildings 122,668 117,734 Construction in progress 390 569 Other tangible fixed assets 10,272 10,846 Intangible fixed assets: 40,105 45,317 Software 21,902 13,726 Other intangible fixed assets 18,203 31,591 Other assets: 352,144 328,137 Premiums receivable 3,330 4,122 Due from agencies 117,841 120,062 Co-insurance accounts receivable 9,257 7,407 Reinsurance accounts receivable 56,073 53,454 Foreign reinsurance accounts receivable 37,979 26,634 Agency business accounts receivable 619 534 Other receivables 38,881 41,300 Accrued income 6,228 6,059 Guarantee deposits 10,565 10,293 Deposits with the Japan Earthquake Reinsurance Company 6,019 6,457 Suspense payments 38,488 35,327 Initial margins for future transactions – 316 Derivative financial instruments 25,651 15,052 Cash collateral pledged under derivative transactions 300 326 Other assets 907 784 Customers' liabilities under acceptances and guarantees 45,520 47,243 Bad debt reserve （4,175） （3,169） Total assets ¥6,777,076 ¥7,098,216 166 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Liabilities) Policy liabilities: ¥3,960,687 ¥3,893,910 Outstanding claims 643,446 641,711 Underwriting reserves 3,317,241 3,252,198 Bonds issued 256,191 386,191 Other liabilities: 515,281 507,840 Co-insurance accounts payable 11,120 11,571 Reinsurance accounts payable 63,397 55,662 Foreign reinsurance accounts payable 28,144 22,483 Agency business accounts payable 12 12 Borrowings 196,767 196,767 Income taxes payable 39,277 48,653 Deposits received 32,469 61,793 Unearned income 31 34 Other payables 48,854 44,734 Suspense receipts 23,286 22,259 Derivative financial instruments 1,649 2,557 Cash collateral received under derivative transactions 62,168 34,218 Lease obligations 1,399 1,372 Asset retirement obligations 3,831 3,862 Other liabilities 2,869 1,858 Reserve for pension and retirement benefits 136,186 139,476 Reserve for retirement benefits for officers 612 516 Accrued bonuses for employees 10,453 10,145 Reserve for reorganization by function 3,015 2,261 Reserves under the special laws: 67,801 71,813 Reserve for price fluctuation 67,801 71,813 Deferred tax liabilities 136,275 161,817 Acceptances and guarantees 45,520 47,243 Total liabilities 5,132,025 5,221,215 (Net assets) Common stock 139,595 139,595 Capital surplus: 93,107 93,107 Additional paid-in capital 93,107 93,107 Retained earnings: 443,975 589,634 Legal earned reserve 46,487 46,487 Other retained earnings: 397,487 543,146 Tax-exempted reserve for accelerated depreciation 15,840 15,503 Retained earnings brought forward 381,647 527,643 Total shareholders' equity 676,678 822,337 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 932,995 1,022,583 Net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges 35,377 32,079 Total valuation and translation adjustments 968,372 1,054,662 Total net assets 1,645,050 1,877,000 Total liabilities and net assets ¥6,777,076 ¥7,098,216 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 167 MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Statements of Income Yen in millions Items Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Ordinary income: ¥1,772,858 ¥1,859,915 Underwriting income: 1,609,647 1,654,780 Net premiums written 1,470,122 1,494,362 Deposit premiums from policyholders 70,040 60,092 Investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders 35,508 33,443 Reversal of outstanding claims 6,283 1,734 Reversal of underwriting reserves 27,649 65,042 Other underwriting income 44 104 Investment income: 159,029 199,914 Interest and dividends income 116,792 105,107 Investment gains on money trusts 517 239 Gains on sales of securities 71,738 122,213 Gains on redemption of securities 304 592 Gains on derivative transactions 4,405 4,564 Other investment income 780 640 Transfer of investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders （35,508） （33,443） Other ordinary income 4,181 5,220 Ordinary expenses: 1,557,316 1,597,363 Underwriting expenses: 1,319,905 1,357,678 Net claims paid 811,476 836,385 Loss adjustment expenses 87,834 87,345 Commissions and collection expenses 251,720 259,174 Maturity refunds to policyholders 167,151 173,672 Dividends to policyholders 466 244 Foreign exchange losses 736 470 Other underwriting expenses 519 385 Investment expenses: 11,968 9,391 Investment losses on money trusts 9 – Losses on sales of securities 4,469 3,360 Impairment losses on securities 497 1,031 Losses on redemption of securities 447 237 Foreign exchange losses 1,624 1,869 Other investment expenses 4,920 2,892 Operating expenses and general and administrative expenses 217,601 222,577 Other ordinary expenses: 7,840 7,714 Interest expense 6,325 6,721 Provision for bad debts 1,160 – Losses on bad debts 9 1 Other ordinary expenses 345 991 Ordinary profit 215,542 262,552 Extraordinary income: 1,379 7,207 Gains on sales of fixed assets 1,379 7,207 Extraordinary losses: 8,479 5,636 Losses on sales of fixed assets 700 763 Impairment losses on fixed assets 489 860 Provision for reserves under the special laws: 3,667 4,011 Provision for reserve for price fluctuation 3,667 4,011 Other extraordinary losses 3,621 – Income before income taxes 208,442 264,123 Income taxes – current 56,972 73,452 Income taxes – deferred （13,098） （7,566） Total income taxes 43,874 65,885 Net income ¥ 164,568 ¥ 198,237 168 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Insurance companies running their business in Japan calculate the non-consolidated solvency margin ratio pursuant to the provisions of Articles 86 and 87 of the Insurance Business Act Enforcement Regulations and Public Notice No. 50 issued by the Ministry of Finance in 1996. While insurance companies set aside reserves to provide for payments of insurance claims should an insured event occur, they are also required to maintain sufficient funds to pay out in an event outside the normal range of estimates such as a major catastrophe and a significant drop in the value of their assets. The non-consolidated solvency margin ratio, or item (C) in each of the tables below, which is calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Act, is the ratio of “solvency margin of insurance companies calculated based on their capital and other reserves”, or (A) the total amount of solvency margin, to “risks exceeding the normal range of estimates”, or (B) the total amount of risks. The non-consolidated solvency margin ratio is one of the objective indicators used by the insurance regulatory authorities to supervise insurance companies. A non-consolidated solvency margin ratio of 200% or over indicates adequate ability to satisfy insurance claims and other payment requirements. Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (A) Total amount of solvency margin ¥2,840,438 ¥3,293,687 Total net assets 639,997 769,056 Reserve for price fluctuation 67,801 71,813 Contingency reserve 589 – Catastrophe reserve 536,735 552,914 General bad debt reserve 156 156 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities and net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges 1,164,861 1,276,455 (prior to tax effect deductions) Net unrealized gains/(losses) on land 45,296 50,064 Excess of policyholders' contract deposits (a) – – Subordinated debts, etc. (b) 256,191 386,191 Amount excluded from the margin, out of (a) and (b) – – Deductions 14,646 6,642 Others 143,455 193,676 (B) Total amount of risks √(R1+R2) +(R3+R4) +R5+R6 2 2 863,472 939,444 General insurance risk (R1) 125,601 128,268 Insurance risk of third sector insurance contracts (R2) – – Assumed interest rate risk (R3) 16,637 15,571 Asset management risk (R4) 696,215 771,448 Business administration risk (R5) 19,178 20,731 Catastrophe risk (R6) 120,461 121,308 (C) Solvency margin ratio [(A) / {(B)×1/2}] × 100 657.9% 701.1% INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 169 AIOI NISSAY DOWA INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Balance Sheets Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Assets) Cash, deposits and savings: ¥ 172,323 ¥ 165,103 Cash on hand 21 20 Deposits in banks 172,302 165,083 Call loans 15,000 – Money trusts 2,502 2,383 Investments in securities: 2,577,087 2,597,124 Government bonds 670,598 640,924 Municipal bonds 20,726 21,152 Corporate bonds 279,472 263,257 Domestic stocks 843,368 922,714 Foreign securities 707,044 684,083 Other securities 55,876 64,991 Loans: 210,917 200,051 Policy loans 3,384 3,063 General loans 207,533 196,987 Tangible fixed assets: 174,597 171,168 Land 76,916 75,219 Buildings 86,506 84,234 Lease assets 29 14 Construction in progress 1,187 1,484 Other tangible fixed assets 9,957 10,216 Intangible fixed assets: 19,679 27,524 Software 14,633 9,325 Other intangible fixed assets 5,045 18,199 Other assets: 276,730 296,367 Premiums receivable 2,639 2,416 Due from agencies 79,671 78,533 Due from foreign agencies 800 931 Co-insurance accounts receivable 3,813 3,379 Reinsurance accounts receivable 54,357 53,568 Foreign reinsurance accounts receivable 49,319 72,006 Agency business accounts receivable 65 70 Other receivables 40,227 38,706 Accrued income 7,916 7,086 Guarantee deposits 7,061 6,821 Deposits with the Japan Earthquake Reinsurance Company 3,961 4,228 Suspense payments 23,333 24,122 Derivative financial instruments 3,563 4,496 Prepaid pension expenses 27,150 23,672 Deferred tax assets 16,329 – Customers' liabilities under acceptances and guarantees 7,530 4,500 Bad debt reserve （1,584） （1,226） Total assets ¥3,498,264 ¥3,486,669 170 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Liabilities) Policy liabilities: ¥2,425,101 ¥2,483,038 Outstanding claims 526,764 572,979 Underwriting reserves 1,898,337 1,910,058 Bonds issued 50,000 22,000 Other liabilities: 154,423 159,007 Co-insurance accounts payable 3,966 3,245 Reinsurance accounts payable 57,124 49,207 Foreign reinsurance accounts payable 21,389 36,314 Agency business accounts payable 1,478 1,550 Borrowings 8 – Income taxes payable 17,290 17,450 Deposits received 2,888 3,049 Unearned income 18 13 Other payables 26,495 28,407 Suspense receipts 18,807 18,014 Derivative financial instruments 4,264 911 Lease obligations 30 14 Asset retirement obligations 661 829 Other liabilities 0 0 Reserve for pension and retirement benefits 22,840 26,891 Accrued bonuses for employees 5,919 5,859 Reserve for reorganization by function 2,288 1,527 Reserves under the special laws: 37,114 1,688 Reserve for price fluctuation 37,114 1,688 Deferred tax liabilities – 1,090 Acceptances and guarantees 7,530 4,500 Total liabilities 2,705,218 2,705,604 (Net assets) Common stock 100,005 100,005 Capital surplus: 81,207 81,207 Additional paid-in capital 52,593 52,593 Other capital surplus 28,614 28,614 Retained earnings: 237,071 172,552 Legal earned reserve 47,411 47,411 Other retained earnings: 189,660 125,141 Retained earnings brought forward 189,660 125,141 Total shareholders' equity 418,284 353,765 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 374,762 427,298 Total valuation and translation adjustments 374,762 427,298 Total net assets 793,046 781,064 Total liabilities and net assets ¥3,498,264 ¥3,486,669 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 171 AIOI NISSAY DOWA INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Statements of Income Yen in millions Items Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Ordinary income: ¥1,304,987 ¥1,335,258 Underwriting income: 1,246,626 1,265,331 Net premiums written 1,200,525 1,222,017 Deposit premiums from policyholders 28,506 26,278 Investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders 17,365 16,728 Other underwriting income 228 307 Investment income: 52,058 61,019 Interest and dividends income 55,409 58,498 Investment gains on money trusts 1 2 Gains on sales of securities 13,349 18,718 Gains on redemption of securities 425 462 Other investment income 238 66 Transfer of investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders （17,365） （16,728） Other ordinary income 6,302 8,906 Ordinary expenses: 1,229,799 1,329,641 Underwriting expenses: 1,026,167 1,087,152 Net claims paid 648,618 660,699 Loss adjustment expenses 60,829 62,886 Commissions and collection expenses 223,848 234,977 Maturity refunds to policyholders 69,648 67,427 Dividends to policyholders 59 38 Provision for outstanding claims 15,205 46,214 Provision for underwriting reserves 5,077 11,721 Foreign exchange losses 1,562 10 Other underwriting expenses 1,318 3,175 Investment expenses: 14,439 57,877 Losses on sales of securities 4,298 3,189 Impairment losses on securities 4,919 49,040 Losses on redemption of securities 370 499 Losses on derivative transactions 4,102 3,572 Foreign exchange losses 125 507 Other investment expenses 622 1,067 Operating expenses and general and administrative expenses 186,846 182,720 Other ordinary expenses: 2,345 1,891 Interest expense 755 571 Provision for bad debts 295 – Losses on bad debts 0 0 Other ordinary expenses 1,294 1,319 Ordinary profit 75,188 5,616 Extraordinary income: 2,644 37,778 Gains on sales of fixed assets 2,644 2,352 Reversal of reserves under the special laws: – 35,425 Reversal of reserve for price fluctuation – 35,425 Extraordinary losses: 11,015 6,599 Losses on sales of fixed assets 1,922 4,609 Impairment losses on fixed assets 5,709 1,979 Provision for reserves under the special laws: 589 – Provision for reserve for price fluctuation 589 – Losses on reduction of tangible fixed assets – 11 Other extraordinary losses 2,795 – Income before income taxes 66,816 36,794 Income taxes – current 17,097 24,465 Income taxes – deferred （672） （3,291） Total income taxes 16,425 21,173 Net income ¥ 50,391 ¥ 15,620 172 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (A) Total amount of solvency margin ¥1,332,714 ¥1,268,359 Total net assets 398,099 324,431 Reserve for price fluctuation 37,114 1,688 Contingency reserve 747 747 Catastrophe reserve 318,711 347,678 General bad debt reserve 296 199 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities and net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges 455,477 521,401 (prior to tax effect deductions) Net unrealized gains/(losses) on land 14,099 18,026 Excess of policyholders' contract deposits (a) – – Subordinated debts, etc. (b) 50,000 17,600 Amount excluded from the margin, out of (a) and (b) – – Deductions 10,743 3,824 Others 68,911 40,411 (B) Total amount of risks √(R1+R2)2+(R3+R4)2+R5+R6 312,981 323,538 General insurance risk (R1) 103,370 105,821 Insurance risk of third sector insurance contracts (R2) – – Assumed interest rate risk (R3) 8,387 7,831 Asset management risk (R4) 221,083 229,683 Business administration risk (R5) 7,728 7,977 Catastrophe risk (R6) 53,574 55,539 (C) Solvency margin ratio [(A) / {(B) × 1/2}] × 100 851.6% 784.0% INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 173 MITSUI DIRECT GENERAL INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Balance Sheets Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Assets) Cash, deposits and savings: ¥12,180 ¥18,067 Deposits in banks 12,180 18,067 Investments in securities: 39,510 33,621 Government bonds 1,865 1,656 Municipal bonds 21,537 21,136 Corporate bonds 16,107 10,828 Tangible fixed assets: 367 377 Buildings 56 50 Other tangible fixed assets 310 327 Intangible fixed assets: 2,307 3,307 Software 2,217 2,207 Other intangible fixed assets 89 1,100 Other assets: 5,625 6,124 Premiums receivable 0 0 Other receivables 3,330 3,756 Accrued income 58 52 Guarantee deposits 352 352 Suspense payments 1,880 1,961 Other assets 2 1 Bad debt reserve （4） （9） Total assets ¥59,987 ¥61,489 (Liabilities) Policy liabilities: 44,851 45,870 Outstanding claims 24,157 24,796 Underwriting reserves 20,693 21,073 Other liabilities: 1,254 1,422 Reinsurance accounts payable 1 1 Income taxes payable 119 224 Other payables 1,101 1,171 Suspense receipts 14 7 Asset retirement obligations 17 17 Reserve for pension and retirement benefits 52 104 Accrued bonuses for employees 262 263 Reserves under the special laws: 56 63 Reserve for price fluctuation 56 63 Deferred tax liabilities 119 93 Total liabilities 46,596 47,819 (Net assets) Common stock 39,106 39,106 Capital surplus: 9,006 9,006 Additional paid-in capital 9,006 9,006 Retained earnings: （34,820） （34,492） Other retained earnings: （34,820） （34,492） Retained earnings brought forward （34,820） （34,492） Total shareholders' equity 13,291 13,619 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 99 50 Total valuation and translation adjustments 99 50 Total net assets 13,390 13,670 Total liabilities and net assets ¥59,987 ¥61,489 174 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Non-Consolidated Statements of Income Yen in millions Items Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Ordinary income: ¥37,753 ¥37,965 Underwriting income: 37,670 37,892 Net premiums written 37,653 37,873 Investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders 17 18 Investment income: 73 59 Interest and dividends income 89 73 Gains on sales of securities 0 4 Transfer of investment income on deposit premiums from policyholders （17） （18） Other ordinary income 9 14 Ordinary expenses: 38,708 37,514 Underwriting expenses: 30,627 28,948 Net claims paid 25,745 24,823 Loss adjustment expenses 2,822 2,825 Commissions and collection expenses 254 280 Provision for outstanding claims 1,178 638 Provision for underwriting reserves 627 380 Investment expenses: – 0 Losses on sales of securities – 0 Operating expenses and general and administrative expenses 8,047 8,556 Other ordinary expenses: 33 8 Provision for bad debts 2 5 Other ordinary expenses 30 2 Ordinary profit/(loss) （955） 451 Extraordinary income – – Extraordinary losses: 12 6 Losses on sales of fixed assets 4 0 Provision for reserves under the special laws: 7 6 Provision for reserve for price fluctuation 7 6 Income /(loss) before taxes （967） 445 Income taxes – current 14 123 Income taxes – deferred 22 （6） Total income taxes 36 117 Net income/(loss) ¥（1,004） ¥ 328 Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (A) Total amount of solvency margin ¥14,705 ¥14,992 Total net assets 13,291 13,619 Reserve for price fluctuation 56 63 Contingency reserve 0 0 Catastrophe reserve 1,231 1,242 General bad debt reserve 1 3 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities and net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges 124 63 (prior to tax effect deductions) Net unrealized gains/(losses) on land – – Excess of policyholders' contract deposits (a) – – Subordinated debts, etc. (b) – – Amount excluded from the margin, out of (a) and (b) – – Deductions – – Others – – (B) Total amount of risks √(R1+R2)2+(R3+R4)2+R5+R6 6,817 6,553 General insurance risk (R1) 6,227 5,978 Insurance risk of third sector insurance contracts (R2) – – Assumed interest rate risk (R3) 0 0 Asset management risk (R4) 912 853 Business administration risk (R5) 223 213 Catastrophe risk (R6) 300 300 (C) Solvency margin ratio [(A) / {(B) × 1/2}] × 100 431.4% 457.5% INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 175 MITSUI SUMITOMO AIOI LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Balance Sheets Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Assets) Cash, deposits and savings: ¥ 290,010 ¥ 164,811 Cash on hand 0 0 Deposits in banks 290,009 164,811 Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 285,455 309,644 Investments in securities: 2,919,795 3,260,140 Government bonds 1,804,655 1,968,530 Municipal bonds 135,839 163,323 Corporate bonds 726,620 862,383 Domestic stocks 1,314 1,362 Foreign securities 244,182 219,641 Other securities 7,183 44,898 Loans: 55,198 57,079 Policy loans 55,198 57,079 Tangible fixed assets: 4,638 3,997 Buildings 620 572 Lease assets 2,724 2,155 Other tangible fixed assets 1,292 1,269 Intangible fixed assets: 20,987 26,417 Software 6,440 8,103 Other intangible fixed assets 14,547 18,314 Due from agencies 116 127 Reinsurance accounts receivable 1,018 663 Other assets: 42,103 46,963 Other receivables 30,610 33,014 Prepaid expenses 1,537 1,427 Accrued income 6,949 7,143 Guarantee deposits 328 350 Derivative financial instruments 2,029 4,042 Suspense payments 621 960 Other assets 24 24 Bad debt reserve （128） （114） Total assets ¥3,619,194 ¥3,869,730 176 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Liabilities) Policy liabilities: ¥2,934,939 ¥3,182,433 Outstanding claims 27,648 28,102 Underwriting reserves 2,896,459 3,143,804 Reserve for dividends to policyholders 10,831 10,526 Due to agencies 5,626 4,562 Reinsurance accounts payable 283 263 Other liabilities: 375,124 395,303 Payables under securities lending transactions 361,797 381,139 Income taxes payable 853 758 Other payables 140 128 Accrued expenses 7,450 9,527 Unearned income 0 0 Deposits received 91 179 Derivative financial instruments 544 391 Lease obligations 2,976 2,364 Asset retirement obligations 429 432 Suspense receipts 839 382 Reserve for pension and retirement benefits 2,535 3,137 Reserve for retirement benefits for officers 28 22 Reserves under the special laws: 5,988 6,862 Reserve for price fluctuation 5,988 6,862 Deferred tax liabilities 18,397 12,619 Total liabilities 3,342,924 3,605,205 (Net assets) Common stock 85,500 85,500 Capital surplus: 93,688 93,688 Additional paid-in capital 63,214 63,214 Other capital surplus 30,473 30,473 Retained earnings: 6,133 7,870 Legal earned reserve – 708 Other retained earnings: 6,133 7,162 Retained earnings brought forward 6,133 7,162 Total shareholders' equity 185,321 187,058 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 90,948 77,466 Total valuation and translation adjustments 90,948 77,466 Total net assets 276,270 264,524 Total liabilities and net assets ¥3,619,194 ¥3,869,730 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 177 MITSUI SUMITOMO AIOI LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Statements of Income Yen in millions Items Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Ordinary income: ¥530,173 ¥550,495 Insurance premiums and others: 480,264 493,748 Insurance premiums 478,928 492,591 Reinsurance income 1,335 1,156 Investment income: 47,500 53,817 Interest and dividends income: 43,797 44,603 Interest on deposits 0 0 Interest and dividends on securities 42,034 42,699 Interest on loans 1,572 1,617 Other interest and dividends 189 287 Gains on sales of securities 3,703 9,209 Foreign exchange gains – 1 Reversal of bad debts – 2 Other ordinary income: 2,408 2,929 Receipts of annuities with special conditions 367 923 Receipts of deferred insurance claims 1,545 1,519 Other ordinary income 495 486 Ordinary expenses: 514,019 533,521 Insurance claims and others: 183,438 189,390 Insurance claims 40,756 41,353 Annuity payments 15,737 16,924 Benefits 17,271 19,878 Surrender benefits 104,943 106,304 Other refunds 3,151 3,735 Reinsurance premiums 1,578 1,195 Provision for underwriting reserves and others: 237,453 247,798 Provision for outstanding claims 2,789 454 Provision for underwriting reserves 234,662 247,344 Provision for interest portion of reserve for dividends to policyholders 0 0 Investment expenses: 3,860 3,881 Interest expense 67 63 Losses on sales of securities 894 1,944 Losses on derivative transactions 2,792 1,793 Foreign exchange losses 4 – Provision for bad debts 54 – Other investment expenses 46 79 Operating expenses 76,907 79,359 Other ordinary expenses: 12,359 13,090 Payments of deferred insurance claims 1,348 1,562 Taxes 6,805 6,599 Depreciation 3,815 4,323 Provision for reserve for pension and retirement benefits 348 601 Other ordinary expenses 42 2 Ordinary profit 16,153 16,973 Extraordinary income: 3 1 Gains on sales of fixed assets 3 1 Extraordinary losses: 775 885 Losses on sales of fixed assets 17 11 Provision for reserves under the special laws: 757 874 Provision for reserve for price fluctuation 757 874 Provision for reserve for dividends to policyholders 8,972 9,214 Income before income taxes 6,409 6,874 Income taxes – current 2,728 2,132 Income taxes – deferred （913） （534） Total income taxes 1,815 1,597 Net income ¥ 4,594 ¥ 5,277 178 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Business Results Amount of Policies in Force and New Policies (1) Policies in force Yen in 100 millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Number of policies Number of policies Amount Amount (in thousands) (in thousands) Individual insurance 2,938 ¥224,779 3,057 ¥230,952 Individual annuities 186 7,362 182 7,115 Group insurance 70,743 78,598 Group annuities 3 3 Notes：1. The amounts of individual annuities represent the total sum of (a) the funds to be held at the time annuity payments are to commence for the policies for which annuity payments have not yet commenced and (b) the underwriting reserves for the policies for which annuity payments have commenced. 2. The amounts of group annuities represent the underwriting reserves. (2) New policies Yen in 100 millions Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Number of Number of policies Amount policies Amount Net increase Net increase (in thousands) New policies (in thousands) New policies by conversion by conversion Individual insurance 317 ¥23,468 23,468 273 ¥26,292 26,292 Individual annuities 7 302 302 1 102 102 Group insurance 610 610 1,445 1,445 Group annuities Note： The amounts of individual annuities represent the funds to be held at the time annuity payments are to commence. Annualized Premiums (1) Policies in force Yen in 100 millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Individual insurance ¥3,577 ¥3,693 Individual annuities 433 430 Total: 4,010 4,123 Medical coverage, living benefits, etc. 884 967 (2) New policies Yen in 100 millions Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Individual insurance ¥501 ¥383 Individual annuities 15 4 Total: 517 388 Medical coverage, living benefits, etc. 152 139 Notes：1. An annualized premium is the annual total of premiums that is obtained by multiplying the amount of a single payment with the number of payments per year in accordance with the premium payment method. An annualized premium for a lump-sum payment policy is the premium divided by the number of years of coverage. 2. “Medical coverage, living benefits, etc.” represents the portion of annualized premiums that corresponds to medical coverage benefits (for hospitalization, surgeries, etc.), living benefits (for specified diseases, nursing care, etc.) and premium waiver benefits (excluding those for disability, but including those for specified diseases, nursing care, etc.). INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 179 MITSUI SUMITOMO AIOI LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Business Performance Yen in millions Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Change Fundamental revenues: ¥526,470 ¥541,283 ¥14,813 Insurance premiums and others 480,264 493,748 13,484 Fundamental expenses 507,853 528,477 20,624 Fundamental profit 18,616 12,806 （5,810） Capital gains/(losses) 12 5,472 5,460 Non-recurring gains/(losses) （2,475） （1,304） 1,171 Ordinary profit 16,153 16,973 820 Extraordinary income 3 1 （1） Extraordinary losses 775 885 110 Provision for reserve for dividends to policyholders 8,972 9,214 242 Income taxes 1,815 1,597 （217） Net income 4,594 5,277 682 180 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (A) Total amount of solvency margin ¥487,958 ¥484,904 Total capital 183,197 186,080 Reserve for price fluctuation 5,988 6,862 Contingency reserve 31,584 32,890 General bad debt reserve 25 23 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities and 113,685 96,832 net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges (prior to tax effect deductions) × 90% Net unrealized gains/(losses) on land × 85% – – Excess of continued Zillmerized reserve (a) 151,430 159,410 Subordinated debts, etc. (b) – – Amount excluded from the margin, out of (a) and (b) – – Brought in capital – – Deductions – – Others 2,046 2,804 (B) Total amount of risks √(R1+R8)2+(R2+R3+R7)2+R4 51,546 56,163 Insurance risk (R1) 16,565 17,411 Insurance risk of third sector insurance contracts (R8) 11,315 11,658 Assumed interest rate risk (R2) 3,080 3,115 Minimum guarantee risk (R7) – – Asset management risk (R3) 38,611 43,169 Business administration risk (R4) 1,391 1,507 (C) Solvency margin ratio [(A) / {(B) × 1/2}] × 100 1,893.2% 1,726.7% INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 181 MITSUI SUMITOMO PRIMARY LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Non-Consolidated Balance Sheets Yen in millions Items March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (Assets) Cash, deposits and savings: ¥ 141,458 ¥ 178,099 Deposits in banks 141,458 178,099 Monetary claims bought 41,499 39,999 Money trusts 965,032 1,037,295 Investments in securities: 4,404,883 4,612,983 Government bonds 68,744 67,101 Municipal bonds 6,739 2,960 Corporate bonds 55,882 78,203 Foreign securities 1,715,807 2,043,356 Other securities 2,557,710 2,421,360 Loans: 208,643 239,778 Policy loans 422 433 General loans 208,220 239,345 Tangible fixed assets: 560 892 Buildings 246 244 Lease assets 188 541 Other tangible fixed assets 126 106 Intangible fixed assets: 4,471 6,638 Software 4,467 6,419 Lease assets 3 218 Reinsurance accounts receivable 2,851 3,813 Other assets: 25,001 41,616 Other receivables 3,798 17,446 Prepaid expenses 362 694 Accrued income 16,023 18,256 Guarantee deposits 3,810 4,504 Derivative financial instruments 2 0 Suspense payments 1,005 709 Other assets – 5 Deferred tax assets 43,644 40,636 Total assets ¥5,838,048 ¥6,201,753 (Liabilities) Policy liabilities: 5,561,432 5,916,715 Outstanding claims 12,418 17,382 Underwriting reserves 5,549,014 5,899,332 Due to agencies 4,984 4,555 Reinsurance accounts payable 7,199 4,244 Other liabilities: 42,675 39,648 Income taxes payable 2,911 1,501 Other payables 8,672 8,346 Accrued expenses 4,550 5,482 Deposits received 19,343 18,821 Derivative financial instruments 6 1 Lease obligations 207 833 Asset retirement obligations 132 134 Suspense receipts 6,851 4,527 Reserves under the special laws: 84,000 72,500 Reserve for price fluctuation 84,000 72,500 Total liabilities 5,700,291 6,037,664 (Net assets) Common stock 41,060 41,060 Capital surplus: 24,735 24,735 Additional paid-in capital 24,735 24,735 Retained earnings: 64,435 89,878 Legal earned reserve 1,850 2,604 Other retained earnings: 62,585 87,274 Retained earnings brought forward 62,585 87,274 Total shareholders' equity 130,230 155,673 Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities 7,522 8,207 Net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges 3 207 Total valuation and translation adjustments 7,525 8,414 Total net assets 137,756 164,088 Total liabilities and net assets ¥5,838,048 ¥6,201,753 182 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section D) Non-Consolidated Statements of Income Yen in millions Items Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Ordinary income: ¥1,272,843 ¥1,256,486 Insurance premiums and others: 1,083,895 1,059,512 Insurance premiums 1,071,113 1,015,601 Reinsurance income 12,781 43,911 Investment income: 185,621 193,690 Interest and dividends income: 60,761 76,884 Interest on deposits 147 131 Interest and dividends on securities 53,841 68,185 Interest on loans 6,400 8,192 Other interest and dividends 371 376 Investment gains on money trusts 14,512 – Gains on sales of securities 1,306 1,506 Gains on redemption of securities – 0 Foreign exchange gains 27,658 – Investment gains on separate accounts 81,380 115,299 Other ordinary income: 3,327 3,282 Receipts of annuities with special conditions 3,313 3,239 Other ordinary income 14 43 Ordinary expenses: 1,215,151 1,227,546 Insurance claims and others: 469,395 694,801 Insurance claims 58,807 73,274 Annuity payments 82,882 88,563 Benefits 126,563 178,199 Surrender benefits 118,042 223,918 Other refunds 3,357 2,791 Reinsurance premiums 79,742 128,054 Provision for underwriting reserves and others: 673,078 355,283 Provision for outstanding claims 2,813 4,964 Provision for underwriting reserves 670,265 350,318 Investment expenses: 1,527 118,896 Interest expense 0 0 Investment losses on money trusts – 5,195 Losses on sales of securities 1,299 – Losses on redemption of securities 1 – Losses on derivative transactions 174 – Foreign exchange losses – 113,646 Other investment expenses 51 54 Operating expenses 61,328 50,236 Other ordinary expenses: 9,820 8,328 Taxes 8,038 6,417 Depreciation 1,779 1,909 Other ordinary expenses 2 2 Ordinary profit 57,692 28,939 Extraordinary income: – 11,500 Reversal of reserves under the special laws: – 11,500 Reversal of reserve for price fluctuation – 11,500 Extraordinary losses: 28,907 – Losses on sales of fixed assets 1 – Provision for reserves under the special laws: 28,906 – Provision for reserve for price fluctuation 28,906 – Income before income taxes 28,784 40,439 Income taxes – current 16,800 8,565 Income taxes – deferred （8,718） 2,662 Total income taxes 8,081 11,227 Net income ¥ 20,703 ¥ 29,212 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 183 MITSUI SUMITOMO PRIMARY LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (NON-CONSOLIDATED) Business Results Amount of Policies in Force and New Policies (1) Policies in force Yen in 100 millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Number of policies Number of policies Amount Amount (in thousands) (in thousands) Individual insurance 597 ¥33,352 687 ¥37,873 Individual annuities 323 23,455 338 22,745 Group insurance Group annuities Note： The amounts of individual annuities represent the total sum of (a) the funds to be held at the time annuity payments are to commence (the premium reserves in the case of individual variable annuities) for the policies for which annuity payments have not yet commenced and (b) the underwriting reserves for the policies for which annuity payments have commenced. (2) New policies Yen in 100 millions Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Number of Number of Amount Amount policies Net increase policies Net increase (in thousands) New policies (in thousands) New policies by conversion by conversion Individual insurance 158 ¥9,026 ¥9,026 118 ¥8,093 ¥8,093 Individual annuities 24 1,296 1,296 44 2,063 2,063 Group insurance Group annuities Note： The amounts of individual annuities represent the funds to be held at the time annuity payments are to commence (the premium reserves at the time of enrollment in the case of individual variable annuities). Annualized Premiums (1) Policies in force Yen in 100 millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Individual insurance ¥2,217 ¥2,641 Individual annuities 3,104 2,307 Total: 5,321 4,948 Medical coverage, living benefits, etc. 0 0 (2) New policies Yen in 100 millions Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Individual insurance ¥ 667 ¥ 650 Individual annuities 922 288 Total: 1,589 938 Medical coverage, living benefits, etc. – – Notes：1. An annualized premium is the annual total of premiums that is obtained by multiplying the amount of a single payment with the number of payments per year in accordance with the premium payment method. An annualized premium for a lump-sum payment policy is the premium divided by the number of years of coverage. 2. “Medical coverage, living benefits, etc.” represents the portion of annualized premiums that corresponds to medical coverage benefits (for hospitalization, surgeries, etc.), living benefits (for specified diseases, nursing care, etc.) and premium waiver benefits (excluding those for disability, but including those for specified diseases, nursing care, etc.). 184 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS CEO Message Who We Are Our Way Special Feature Our Platform Appendix Data Section D) Non-Consolidated Business Performance Yen in millions Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Change Fundamental revenues: ¥1,269,861 ¥1,270,108 ¥ 246 Insurance premiums and others 1,083,895 1,059,512 （24,382） Fundamental expenses 1,217,105 1,261,245 44,140 Fundamental profit 52,755 8,862 （43,893） Capital gains/(losses) 6,233 21,219 14,986 Non-recurring gains/(losses) （1,296） （1,141） 155 Ordinary profit 57,692 28,939 （28,752） Extraordinary income – 11,500 11,500 Extraordinary losses 28,907 – （28,907） Provision for reserve for dividends to policyholders – – – Income taxes 8,081 11,227 3,145 Net income 20,703 29,212 8,509 Notes： Since the year ended March 31, 2018, the disclosure method of the breakdown of ordinary profit relating to the effect of change in surrender values associated with market value adjustment has been modified. As a result, fundamental profit decreased by ¥53 million and capital gains increased by the same amount for the year ended March 31, 2018, compared to those before the modification. The figures for the year ended March 31, 2017 were also restated accordingly. As a result, fundamental profit increased by ¥110 million and capital gains decreased by the same amount for the year ended March 31, 2017, compared to those before the modification. Non-Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio Yen in millions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 (A) Total amount of solvency margin ¥558,542 ¥605,676 Total capital 126,749 149,053 Reserve for price fluctuation 84,000 72,500 Contingency reserve 74,456 75,597 General bad debt reserve – – Net unrealized gains/(losses) on investments in securities and 9,402 10,258 net deferred gains/(losses) on hedges (prior to tax effect deductions) × 90% Net unrealized gains/(losses) on land × 85% – – Excess of continued Zillmerized reserve (a) 241,219 267,415 Subordinated debts, etc. (b) – – Amount excluded from the margin, out of (a) and (b) – – Brought in capital – – Deductions – – Others 22,714 30,850 (B) Total amount of risks √(R1+R8)2+(R2+R3+R7)2+R4 108,399 121,997 Insurance risk (R1) 89 117 Insurance risk of third sector insurance contracts (R8) 5 4 Assumed interest rate risk (R2) 41,902 45,460 Minimum guarantee risk (R7) 3,722 2,655 Asset management risk (R3) 60,647 71,487 Business administration risk (R4) 2,127 2,394 (C) Solvency margin ratio [(A) / {(B) × 1/2}] × 100 1,030.5% 992.9% INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 185 In this report, the following abbreviations appear for company names. MS&AD, The Group MS&AD Insurance Group MS&AD Holdings, The holding company, or the Company MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. MSI, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. ADI, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General, Mitsui Direct General Insurance Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Aioi Life Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Primary Life Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MSIG Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Aioi, Aioi Insurance Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd. NDI, Nissay Dowa General Insurance Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Kirameki Life Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Life Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MS Amlin MS Amlin plc MS First Capital MS First Capital Insurance Limited ReAssure ReAssure Jersey One Limited Challenger Challenger Limited 186 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS ESG Evaluation The MS&AD Insurance Group utilizes the assessments provided by global ESG evaluation organizations to improve its efforts in CSR. As of July 2018, the MS&AD Insurance Group was included in the following ESG-related indices. The “Bronze Class” Dow Jones Sustainability Indices CDP's Climate A List CSR rating by （World / Asia Pacific） RobecoSAM MSCI Japan FTSE4Good Index Series FTSE Blossom Japan Index ESG Select Leaders Index* MSCI Japan Empowering Morningstar ECPI Indices Women Index (WIN)* Socially Responsible Investment Index *The inclusion of MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc. in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc. by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI Index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 187 Third-Party Assurance To improve the objectiveness and accuracy of our MS&AD Integrated Report 2018, the MS&AD Insurance Group has engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., to perform third-party assurance on the following information included in this report. The third-party assurance process Information subject to the assurance engagement ● CO2 emissions, total energy consumption* STEP 1 ● Number and ratio of female managers Planning ● Number and ratio of global employees ● Examination of the calculation method for the data subject to assurance and ● Number and ratio of employees with disabilities the company’s outline of business ● Formulation of assurance engagement * Details regarding the method for calculating data can be found on our official website. plan based on risk assessment www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/csr/data/index.html STEP 2 Implementation of assurance procedures ● Implementation of a site visit and analysis of compiled data STEP 3 Review of draft report ● Confirmation that required corrections have been completed ● Reviewing the draft report to determine whether the assured information is presented appropriately STEP 4 Submitting the assurance report ● Review by a reviewer not directly involved in the assurance engagement ● Submission of the assurance report 188 MS&AD INSURANCE GROUP HOLDINGS On the issuance of the MS&AD Integrated Report 2018 Since fiscal 2015, the MS&AD Insurance Group has data indicated since fiscal 2017. For the results of the published the Integrated Report to provide readers with a third-party verification included in the MS&AD Integrated deeper understanding of the Group’s commitment to Report 2018, please see page 188. Moreover, President & mediumto long-term value creation. We believe the CEO as a representative of the management team has issuance of the Integrated Report offers the opportunity for included a signed message at the beginning of the report. constructive dialogue with many stakeholders, including As CFO, I am responsible for the editing process and, shareholders, investors, and employees, in regard to the accordingly, reiterate the importance of ensuring that the Group’s story of value creation. assembly process for the Integrated Report is carried out responsibly and that content in the report is indeed accurate. In the MS&AD Integrated Report 2018, we explain Vision 2021, our new medium-term management plan, With this year’s Integrated Report, we hope to promote while we also review the previous medium-term amicable feelings for the Group by creating even greater management plans and introduce the various initiatives understanding of it among stakeholders such as customers, aiming for the Group’s 2030 goal of realizing a “resilient shareholders and investors. We continue to value dialogue and sustainable society.” with all our stakeholders, and with the aim of further We have also included a section detailing the strengths improving disclosure and enhancing transparency we invite of the Group to enhance the description about our our stakeholders to share with us their frank opinions. management feature that leverages diversity, which is the core of the Group’s ongoing focus on sustainable growth in September 2018 the face of environmental change. Director, Executive Vice President, CFO With the goal of improving the objectivity and accuracy of the report, we have engaged the services of a third-party assurance firm to independently verify the key non-financial Shiro Fujii Group Slogan ● The challenge of corporate change The Group companies and each staff member will continue to pursue rapid and dynamic change in response to shifts in social and business trends. Advancing with you ● The challenge of providing new insurance products Providing products and services in anticipation of new risks, the Group will consistently seek to provide maximum security to its customers. ● The challenge of competing globally To develop the strength to compete in the highly competitive international arena, the Group will continue to grow, aspiring to become a world-leading insurance and financial services group. Aspiring to become a world-leading insurance and financial services group, the MS&AD Insurance Group will continue to take on these challenges. Contact Information ＜Forward-looking statements＞ These materials contain future plans, strategies, and earnings forecasts (Securities code: 8725) for MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and Group companies. MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. They are based on information available to the Group at the present time. Investors are advised that actual results might differ substantially Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building (West Tower), 27-2, from our forecasts, for various reasons. Actual performance could be Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0033, Japan adversely affected by (1) economic trends surrounding our business, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Dept. (2) fierce competition within the insurance sector, (3) exchange rate Tel: +81-3-5117-0311, Fax: +81-3-5117-0605 fluctuations, and (4) changes in tax and other regulatory systems. https://www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/ir/contact/index.html This report was prepared pursuant to Article 271-25 of the Insurance Business Act and Article 210-10-2 of the Insurance Business Act Enforcement Regulations. MS&AD Integrated Report 2018 w w w. w wms-ad-hd w. ms-ad-hd . com . com Corporate Corporate Communications and Investor Communications and Investor Relations Relations Dept. Dept. Tokyo Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building Twin Building Sumitomo (West Tower) (West Tower) 27-2, Shinkawa 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan Japan Inquiries: Inquiries: www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/ir/contact/index.html www.ms-ad-hd.com/en/ir/contact/index.html
