UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Lantrade Global Supplies Ltd Communication on Progress 2018 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support 3 The 10 Principles of the Global Compact 4 • Human Rights 4 • Labour Standards 5 • Environment 9 • Anti-corruption 12 Summary 13 Conclusion 14 Page | 2 Statement of Continued Support 2018 has been an interesting and challenging year, both in the UK and globally. With every challenge, Lantrade Global Supplies (LGS) continues to be as committed as ever to developing and practising the principles laid out in the UN Global Compact. After over two decades of providing professional and proficient solutions to all aspects of the electoral procedure, we have gained the skills and experience in operating as a fully responsible corporate citizen. We constantly strive to improve our service and source the best quality and competitively priced products available. This provides a cost effective and streamlined supply chain for overseas projects run by international organisations. LGS is committed to all of the 10 Global Compact principles and we are proud that all of our business partners are in agreement with these principles. Our diverse team of experts has grown and developed over the years to become a multinational and highly experienced group of people working across several continents. We strive to provide a positive influence on the communities we work with and are committed to working with international organisations; we openly affirm with our suppliers the importance we attach to the Global Compact. It is with great satisfaction that LGS consistently betters and improves its practices in relation to the principles laid out in the UN Global Compact. As an organisation we have retained our highly ethical approach. All staff at LGS continue to assess and improve positive global interactions which enables them to find efficient solutions to some of the procurement challenges that arise within the industry. Lynda Scott-Tomlin LGS Managing Director Page | 3 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights. LGS is committed to and places great emphasis on the Human Rights of anyone with whom it is in contact, from its own employees to supply chain workers, and strives to comply with international human rights guidelines. Ongoing training is given to every new member joining our team so that they are aware of the importance of upholding the human rights principles of all workers. All employees are asked to follow the practices and to ensure that all operations involved in the supply process adhere to internationally proclaimed human rights. Our ethos is that this is believed to belong to every person and as a company we adopt a zero tolerance of any discrimination be it on age, gender, religion, race or culture. Working with local people and gaining mutual respect leads to greater insight and knowledge, which is invaluable to all concerned and helps create a more efficient and harmonious environment. This encourages business growth in conditions committed to respecting the preservation of human rights. Page | 4 Principle 2: Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LGS takes a breach of human rights within its supply chain extremely seriously and will never participate in business with companies seen to be breaching these rights. Training is given to all our employees to enable them to recognise and be aware these values are upheld by organising regular factory visits to ensure practices within its supply chain are adhered too. By aiming to provide a working environment, free from such discriminations as racial discrimination, religious intolerance, pay equality, we aim, to the best of our ability, promote our values on a global level. We strive to encourage our suppliers to examine their practices as a result of our zero tolerance towards human rights abuse. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: The business should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As a small company LGS is unable to form a trade union but we ensure our ethos is known to all employees. LGS treats their employees with respect and provide an environment that is efficient, safe and open to hear ideas, opinions and thoughts, thus promoting the spirit of collective bargaining. Page | 5 In encouraging advancement and fulfilment in every role, through either specific training or mindfulness, we actively encourage and support our staff who chose to become members of large charitable organisations such as Unite or Amnesty International. A satisfied and happy team in a cooperative and agreeable environment promotes enhanced business outcomes. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour LGS only deals with companies that confirm they do not engage in forced labour. LGS provides its employees with an employment contract which ensures we take full responsibility for providing employees with fair employment conditions and they are aware of their rights, responsibilities and duties. LGS continues to support actions against forced labour and aims when possible to make appropriate changes towards better labour standards. In cases where we have limited control over preventing Page | 6 unfair work practices, we have adopted procedures to ensure to the best of our ability that our chosen suppliers are not involved in any form of forced and compulsory behaviour. Large scale projects are monitored throughout the supply process and we regularly visit sites with both unannounced and scheduled visits. Our multicultural nature of our team allows a breadth of effective communication enabling us to gain vital insight into our suppliers’ work practices. We appreciate the importance of employing local people to help ensure that site employees are protected. Page | 7 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. LGS condemns any practice of child labour and is committed to ensuring that it never engages with companies who practice child labour. We fulfil our commitment by having regular contact with our suppliers and their employees. However, should an incident of child labour be uncovered, LGS uses its influence on suppliers to promote ethical labour standards and ensures appropriate measures are taken. We commit to working towards changing the practices of the company by changing the supplier. This clearly promotes our message of zero tolerance towards any use of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The LGS team is made up of a wide range of nationalities, cultures and talents including people from Nigeria, China, Algeria, Bulgaria and the UK. Page | 8 We employ people with relevant skills and experience, which ensures our employees bring a diverse and distinct element to LGS. Job reviews and training records are monitored regularly and kept up to date to enable promotion, in an environment which promotes equal opportunities and job satisfaction. We believe that the diversity of our team is the driving force behind our success. We aspire to lead by example in the hope that our suppliers adopt the same non-discriminatory policies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. With environmental issues constantly appearing in the news, global warming and plastic waste being in the forefront. LGS continues to prioritise preservation of the environment in all areas of its work. LGS tries to establish whether more environmentally friendly options regarding manufacturing are available throughout the supply chain. Our office and site employees are trained to practice environmentally friendly administration, recycling and waste disposal. We encourage the use of sea freight, rather than air freight whenever possible. LGS also endeavours to source products closer to the delivery destination. Page | 9 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. LGS continuously strives and are aware of its environmental responsibility. This starts with its employees and communicating with suppliers to inform them of the important of achieving a better environmental performance. When employees commence work at LGS they are informed of the Global Compact guiding principles to ensure that they are equipped with the skills needed to identify new strategically sustainable practices. On a day-to-day initiative within the office, LGS employees are asked to recycle ink cartridges and batteries, recycle kitchen waste, re-use paper only partly used. These small tasks when carried out on a continual everyday action, further promotes environmental awareness. Page | 10 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LGS encourages the use of environmentally friendly and more eco-efficient technologies. Wherever possible we aim to involve some of the following practices: Recycled, recyclable and/or biodegradable content Plant based materials Reduction of polluting substance Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Renewable energy Energy-efficiency Multi-functionality Low impact manufacturing LGS monitors sites by carrying out spot checks on factory production and with effective communication with suppliers this ensures the best possible technology is used during the production process. Page | 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LGS is committed to working against corruption in all forms including bribery and extortion and we continue to promote a zero tolerance policy. Across all our practices we promote transparency, be it in our reporting and accounting or pricing and manufacturing. We continue to strive to attain the highest levels of good governance and be vigilant, where possible, to support eradicating corruption. We do this by having regular contact with our industry peers and providing internal training and development programs with all our staff. Our good governance and value centred leadership ethos is reflected in our continued support of the Howard League for Penal Reform, a charity that focuses on encouraging less crime, safer communities and fewer people in prison. Page | 12 Summary Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy Support and respect the Staff attended an internal communications A greater understanding and knowledge of To source and support further protection of internationally workshop on Human Rights. Human Rights on a global level. Providing charities whose aim is to correct acclaimed Human Rights a mutually beneficial growth for all parties. abuse of Human Rights. Non-complicit in human rights Continual appraisal and reinforcement of the A corporate environment free of fear, Ongoing assessment of our business abuses guiding principles Universal Declaration of functioning transparently and honourably practices. This will ensure we Human Rights and the CRC. in the communities we trade with. execute these guiding principles Uphold freedom of association Structured communication forums across the Employees and partners who feel To continue empowering our staff and effectively recognise the right organisation, and with stakeholders, empowered to take responsibility at a and stakeholders, enriching their to collective bargaining including suppliers, partners and personal level for positive corporate insight and understanding of the manufacturers. citizenship within the communities we guiding principles. work. Uphold the elimination of all Regular personal presence on site. A corporate environment free of fear, Become more active as a positive forms of forced and compulsory Engaging positive influences in culturally functioning transparently and honourably influence against forced and labour sensitive environments. in the communities we trade with. compulsory labour. Uphold the effective abolition of Rigorous adherence to a zero-tolerance Knowledgeable, culturally and legally Explore opportunities to invest in child labour policy towards child labour. sensitive interaction with communities in child-related charities supporting the order to provide sustainable, credible and communities in which we operate. mutually beneficial economic growth for all parties. Page 13 Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy Eliminate discrimination in Implementation of appropriate internal and The provision of a working environment Continue our program of internal respect of employment and external recruitment and training programs. that offers equal opportunities for skills training and evaluation, in order to occupation Provide suitable and appropriate working and advancement in the most fully best identify strengths and environments which meet Health and Safety inclusive manner to a diverse and allweaknesses, and focus on correct standards, and which secure our investment inclusive staff complement. any potential imbalance. in duty of care for our staff. Support a precautionary Ongoing research to keep abreast of global The provision of economically beneficial To continue empowering our staff approach to environmental environmental challenges. services in a manner that supports the and stakeholders, enriching their challenges protection and sustainability of the insight and understanding of the environment. guiding principles. Undertake initiatives to promote Constant evaluation of existing interactions. The provision of a cost-effective yet Continue our program of internal greater environmental Strategic selection of sustainable practices. environmentally sound business model. training and evaluation, in order to responsibility best identify strengths and weaknesses, and focus on correct any potential imbalance. Encourage the development and Constant research, networking and The provision of a constantly improving Selectively focus on key methods to diffusion of environmentally evaluation of innovations and opportunities offering, one which meets the need for the improve the information and friendly technologies in technological advancement. sustainability of global environments. research channels. Work against corruption in all Application of rigorous standards of The provision of a transparent service to Refine and develop our recruitment forms, including extortion and compliance internally, with a zero-tolerance our clients and our stakeholders, in which and training methods, internally and bribery policy towards corruption, extortion and all parties strive to achieve best practice externally, to provide a better bribery. and responsible corporate citizenship. Page 13 universal understanding of the problem, and the solutions. Support for the Howard League for Penal Reform. Page 13 Conclusion LGS considers its commitment to the 10 Global Compact guiding Principles to be of upmost importance in all our processes and procedures. We are fully committed and regularly valuate our practices and continue to update and inform staff of new guidelines and regulations. Our program of self-governance has developed into a highly structured program of self-assessment. We hold a company debriefing following each major project, to allow for ideas and concerns to be aired for improved future business. By highlighting both our strengths and weakness this allows us to continually grow and improve. In today’s competitive world LGS remains focused on the Global Compact principles to remain ethical and transparent in practice, which in turn will benefit all concerned. 14
