COP REPORT 2015-2017 Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog (LWCU) Maharajganj, Kathmandu Report Submitted to the UN Global Compact April 10, 2018 1. Introduction Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog (LWCU), founded in 1982, is the first button factory in Nepal. It is also the first industry in Nepal to produce handicraft items from bones and horns of domestic animals, particularly buffalo. When Laxmi Sharma founded, LWCU the concept of using bone and horn to produce buttons had not been enter in Nepali society. LWCU developed its own technology to make tools and handoperated machines needed for handmade production. Since then, LWCU has created more than 11 thousand styles of buttons, from simple round ones to exclusive animal designs. 1.1 About Laxmi Sharma: Laxmi Sharma is established as an icon of successful women entrepreneur in Nepal. She is known as the synonym of struggles and social worker as being the first women tempo driver not only within Nepal rather in the South-Asia. She has been producing buttons and other handicraft since 35 years and introducing Nepali arts and handicraft over the world through buttons. Mrs. Sharma had hardly attended 3 days in School but she can speaks in many languages very fluently. However, she belongs to one of the backward ethnic group, her father belongs to the Magar and mother belongs to Tamag ethnic group. Since establishment of the LWCU, he has provided employment opportunity to over 45 hundreds people through her industry. The same number of people became skillful and trained in making buttons, weaving Dhaka and other handicrafts production. Many skilled workers now established their own business and handicraft production. Laxmi Sharma is a founder and currently chairperson of the Kathmandu Animal Treatment (KAT) Centre. KAT Centre is one of the renowned social organization that works for the animal rights especially dog and other domestic animals. Currently, KAT has been providing health services, food and caring of hundreds of dogs. Laxmi Sharma has been awarded by many national and international organizations for her social work and contributions. Recently, Laxmi Sharma has honored by top 8 most influence and credible contributor women of Nepal including the President of Nepal, former Chief Justice, former speaker of the house representative and other famous and respected women in Nepal (see pic. below). She has been honored by many institutions and she has been delivering lectures on entrepreneurship and business at various college and university in Nepal. 1.2 Current Situation of LWCU: LWCU is running in 34 years of its establishment as a typical Nepali industry using local human resource and raw materials. It has provided skilled training with training allowance and accommodation to the participants over four thousand people. LWCU has special policy of selecting participants to the training; including marginalized community, minority ethnic/endogenous people, disabled people, x-leprosy survivor, and abnormal people from the various remote and backward region of Nepal. LWCU has been sending its products in more than a dozen countries around the world. As other Nepalese industries and businesses, the LWCU has also affected by the decade long armed conflict and political instability. In the back force of political parties, it's workers demanded unlawful demand and benefits from the industry. While LWCU could not give them such benefits and fulfill their demand, workers disturbed to industry to run smoothly and later on, they went to the court. Due to the political obstacle and disturbances unfortunately, the factory had faced many ups and down. Now, all the cases and problems of labor has solved and again factory is running smoothly. In past, this factory has lost millions dolor business in past however, Laxmi Sharma is not a person like gets back when problems comes on her way, she fought against all the obstacle and problems continuously finally she became success to resolve it. However, political situation for business and industries has now improved. There seems many good signpost for business and economic upwards after all three level's election and forming new government in Nepal. 2. Social Services of LWCU LWCU is not only a profit making industry, despite that it has been spending up 15 percent of its profit in social services. Since its establishment it has been supported many helpless people for saving their life and opening windows for their survival, you may look back to our previous reports. Chairperson Laxmi Sharma, herself is also earning from other sources. She is delivering lecture in various business studies, selling paintings, song albums, and books. She has been spending her personal earning also in social services. Many children who were helpless and orphan, LWCU has provided support to shelter, study, and career development. This report includes the activities conducted during the period of 2015-2017. Due to facing several workers' and other political problem by LWCU, and due the political transition and election in Nepal, some disturbance came in factory so it became unable to report to the UN Global Compact on timely. Now, every things are going smoothly and regularly so in upcoming days LWCU will report to the UN Global Compact timely. 3. Activities Conducted: 3.1 Emergency relief support to Earthquake affected people A. Under the banner of LWCU, Laxmi Sharma and her team has been reached in many villages of Sindhupalchowk, Nuwakot, Kavre,Dhadhing and many areas of Kathmandu Valley to distribute emergency relief materials to the earthquake affected people just after the April disaster in 2015. B. LWCU had hand over 18 Toilet-Bath Room for the real victim people at Icchangu Naryan VDC. C. And the another project“Student scholarship” program held 40 students same real victim area just pass class 10 and they started collage. We have finished within 2 days this program is design under banking process we individually open the student bank a/c via Global IME Bank Ltd. then we have deposit Rs.10,000 (In words Ten thousand) amount in their bank a/c future study . 3.2 Educational and guardianship Support: LWCU has been supporting many helpless children and street children. Suraj Basnet is orphan and helpless boy. He did not find people to be guardian in taking Citizenship certificate. Laxmi Sharma became his guardian for providing citizenship. Similarly Saru Manandhar and her brother Sagun manadhar, Saru Pandey,Slina Pandey and Salin Pandey are have been getting educational guardianship support since childhood .Now they are studding primary level to university level . Similarly, Manzil Lama and Monika Lama-brother and Sister, both were provided shelter and support in education. Now they are in Morocco and earning very well. Similarly, LWCU has been supporting to two children in their study at SOS. Photos of the financial supported students are as follows: 3.3 Contribution to the Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre (KAT Centre) Since Laxmi Sharma is founder of both LWCU and Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre (KAT Centre), LWCU has been regularly supported to the KAT. It has been supporting financially and technically to the KAT. Since last 3 years Laxmi Sharma has been heading the KAT as a chairperson, she attempted to solve the problems of KAT, so that LWCU has been providing financial support, goods, and kinds as well. KAT Centre have been managed difficult street dog problems and eliminated rabies through Animal Birth Control (ABC) and widespread rabies vaccinations. KAT Centre is also advocating for the animal's rights and violence on women through various types of campaigning and policy advocacy. 3.4 Continue publishing Successful Dream Successful Dream has been publishing in Nepali as named on Safal Sapana has been publishing from LWCU. This magazine released the information and education on environment protection, culture, religion, and cultural heritages. The contents of the Safal Sapana are arts, crafts, culture, rituals, temples, and socialcultural heritages. We believe that we have been contributing to preserve and project heritage of Nepali culture and society. 3.5 Honored of Laxmi Sharma In honored of Laxmi Sharma and other leading women in Nepal has acknowledge in the media. 4. Activities Conducted in Support of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog is already a strong supporter of human rights, labor, and the environment, and tries to reduce corruption. As a member of the Global Compact, LWCU takes steps every year to further enhance our activities to accomplish the goals of the Global Compact. Human Rights: ● All employees of Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog are provided medical allowances, maternity leave, and other benefits. When staff are needed to work additional hours, they are provided with overtime pay and also food supplements. Staff at LWCU receive entertainment facilities, to create a more positive, enjoyable workplace. ● LWCU recognizes staff who have shown exceptional discipline, attendance, and initiative by awarding them with prizes such as televisions, jewelry, money, stereos, and other household items. This gives them motivation to continue to work well and creates a positive feeling among the staff by making them feel appreciated. ● We have produced two documentaries about social issues and human rights. Mahapuja is film about a culture of celebrating self-respect. Democracy is a documentary that promotes Nepali culture. ● LWCU gives clothes to our staff in the winter and summer. ● We have built comfortable work rooms for our employees. This provides them with a pleasant atmosphere while they work. ● LWCU supports people in need, including children of employees and other people. This support includes sponsoring education and providing housing. ● This year, Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog supported four children who did not have parents to care for them. They lived with Laxmi Sharma, the proprietor of the company. LWCU obtained citizenship papers for them and enrolled two of them in an SOS orphanage. LWCU made a donation to the orphanage to fund the support of the children. ● LWCU does many projects to preserve and celebrate Nepali culture. Environment: ● Mrs. Laxmi Sharma, the proprietor of Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog, is a strong campaigner for protection of the environment. She is involved with several organizations that work for social and environmental issues. ● LWCU does not use chemicals for processing and other aspects of producing our handicrafts. Instead, we use natural materials such as tea, henna, etc. to dye fabrics and color hand-crafted products. ● LWCU organizes frequent awareness programs with our staff about work efficiency, health, and environmental issues. The staff enjoy these activities and learn from them. ● Whenever possible, we use environmentally friendly packaging for our products. We are discussing the best packaging to use in the future, such as re-useable cloth bags or disposable materials that are quickly bio-degradable. ● We now publish a magazine called Successful Dreams which focuses on the environment, education, preserving Nepali culture, and other social issues. The magazine is free and is published quarterly. ● Laxmi Sharma, the proprietor of LWCU, is an executive member of Power to the People. This organization does many important social welfare projects, including cleaning the rivers in Kathmandu and protecting and celebrating Nepali culture. ● LWCU helps many of Kathmandu’s street dogs, by feeding them, getting them sterilized (spayed/neutered), and getting vet care for them when they are sick. ● LWCU often plants trees in the Kathmandu area, and does projects to clean up the city. Anti-Corruption: ● Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog aims to be transparent is all of its business dealings. In this way, it can serve as an example of good business practices that do not support corruption. ● We have joined several anti-corruption campaigns that raise awareness to oppose corruption, bribery, and extortion. Although it is difficult to fight against corruption in Nepal, we are doing what we can to reduce it. 5 Nepalese women motivating Nepal and the world “Other women who are killing it should motivate you, thrill you, challenge you and inspire you.” -Taylor Swift There is a saying, “Behind every successful man, there is a woman“. But, we have not heard of the vice-versa. In a Nepalese Society, there is not much of a freedom to female to live their own life as planned. Besides that, there are some women who have achieved what they have dreamed of and now are a motivation to everyone. Some of such women personalities are: 1. Gyani Shova Tuladhar Gyani Shova Tuladhar Founder & Principal of Namuna College of Fashion Technology, Gyani Shova Tuladhar is considered as the pioneer of Fashion in our country. She is the one who had established the 1st Fashion College in Nepal. She is not only renowned within the country but also internationally. She is the source of inspiration to a lot of females who are willing to do something of their own. 2. Laxmi Sharma Laxmi Sharma From Nepal’s first woman tempo driver to the pioneer in bone and wood craft, Laxmi Sharma has many ups and downs in her life but she never give up. And, now she is where everyone wants to be. Her life has been a source of inspiration to a lot of female out there who are willing to start their own career but are able to start the first step. She is considered as the Button Lady and one of the successful Female Entrepreneur of Nepal. 3. Sapana Pradhan Malla Sapana Pradhan Malla Supreme Court Judge and former member of the Constituent Assembly, Sapana Pradhan Malla was born on 15th November 1963 in Nawalparasi. She is affiliated with a lot of other organizations and had won enormous awards. She is continuously working to ensure the rights of women. 3. Anuradha Koirala Anuradha Koirala Founder and director of Maiti Nepal, Anuradha Koirala has dedicated her life for helping victims of sex trafficking. She has won the CNN Hero of the Year award in 2010 and had also received the Mother Teresa Awards in 2014. Recently, she has been appointed as 1st Women Governor of Province No. 3 . 4. Ambika Shrestha Ambika Shrestha President of Dwarika’s Hotels and Resorts, Ambika Shrestha is the one who has raised her small hotel into one of the reputed, high end heritage hotel after the death of her husband. She is a well known Nepali Entrepreneur as well as honorary consulate General of Spain for Nepal. She is even the head of Nepalese Heritage Society and Business and Professional Women Nepal, which works for the preserving the cultural heritage of Nepal and for uplifting underprivileged women. Access from: http://www.honeydoze.com/social/5-nepalese-women-motivating-nepal-world/ Thank you.
