IBL TOGETHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT JULY 2017 JUNE 2018 IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 / 33 Dear Stakeholders, SUBJECT: UN GLOBAL COMPACT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to reaffirm our Group’s support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, our daily operations, our services and more importantly, our culture. We also commit to sharing this information with you, using all our communication channels. Sincerely yours, ARNAUD LAGESSE GROUP CEO Port Louis, 21 November 2018 2 / 32 01 ABOUT IBL TOGETHER IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 / 33 01 | ABOUT IBL TOGETHER 190 Years of Entrepreneurship and Growth Our Mission IBL’s story is one of entrepreneurship, transformation and growth. It is also the story of As a diverse and responsible corporate citizen, we enhance the talent the many people who have shaped the Group over the past 190 years. From our origins in of our people and inspire them to better serve our stakeholders in a Mauritius’ historic shipping and sugar industries in the 1830s, IBL has become one of the trustful, open and efficient way. region’s largest diversified groups. We work across nine clusters in 25 countries worldwide. IBL now has 25,750 team members, making us one of Mauritius’ largest employers. We are answerable to over 12,500 shareholders. Our Vision Our Values Creating a brighter People First, Passion, Integrity, Excellence, Revenue Profit from operations future for all. Responsibility & Creativity. Rs 37.1Bn Rs 2.3Bn A Mauritian first 9 Clusters 1 st Agro Building & Engineering Commercial Mauritius’ largest business group Financial & Other Services Mauritian Group Hospitality in terms of Market Life +25,750 +12,700 Capitalisation Logistics Manufacturing & Processing Team members Shareholders excl. financial institutions Property IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4 / 32 01 | ABOUT IBL TOGETHER Investment portfolio by Cluster as at 30th June 2018 An international presence 19% 10% MANUFACTURING & PROPERTY PROCESSING 8% 4% AGRO LOGISTICS 1% 14% LIFE BUILDING & ENGINEERING 20% 7% HOSPITALITY COMMERCIAL IBL is present in 18% 23 countries: FINANCIAL & Total: Rs 28.3Bn Brazil; Comoros; China; Dubai; France; Gabon; India; Ivory Coast; Kenya; Madagascar; Maldives; Mauritius; Romania; OTHER SERVICES Reunion; Seychelles; Singapore; South Africa; Sri Lanka; Tanzania; Turkey; Uganda; UK; Zambia Active in 280 companies 3 Companies on the SEMSI 5 Joint ventures 9 Listed companies 28 Associated companies 255 Subsidiaries IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 / 33 01 | ABOUT IBL TOGETHER IBL GROUP AGRO BUILDING & COMMERCIAL FINANCIAL & HOSPITALITY LIFE LOGISTICS MANUFACTURING & PROPERTY CSR ENGINEERING OTHER SERVICES PROCESSING Alteo UBP BrandActiv AfrAsia LUX* Hotels & Resorts IBL Life Logidis Phoenix Beverages Bloomage Fondation Joseph Lagesse 27.64% A 33.14% S O 30.29% A 56.47% S 100% S 100% S 23.28% S 100% S S Manser Saxon HealthActiv DTOS CIDP Somatrans Seafood Hub BlueLife Small Step Matters 92.5% S O 100% S 90% S 75% S 85% S 48.99% S S CMH Winner’s Mauritian Eagle Insurance QuantiLab Holding Ground2Air Froid des Mascareignes Chemin Rail & Amaury Housing Co. Ltd 100% S 100% S 60% S 50% A 100% S 59.50% S S Scomat Monoprix City Brokers Proximed Australair Marine Biotechnology Products 100% S 100% S 50% JV 50% JV 25% S 56.95% S ServEquip Intergraph EllGeo Re Arcadia Travel Cervonic 100% S 100% S 33.3% A 100% S 85% S DieselActiv LCF Holdings Reefer Operations Mer des Mascareignes 100% S 60% S 100% S 42.50% A CNOI The Bee Equity Partners G2ACamas Princes Tuna (Mauritius) 60% S 34.95% S 50% S 40.64% A Blychem Alentaris Nutrifish 100% S 75.51% S 24.97% A IBL Link Fresh Cuts 100% S Key Table: 100% S GWS Technologies A: Associate La Tropicale Mauricienne 45% A JV: Joint Venture 100% S Universal Media S: Subsidiary 55% S O: Operation IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6 / 33 01 | ABOUT IBL TOGETHER Arnaud Lagesse, Group Chief Executive Officer Delivering on IBL’s growth strategy: Extract from the Group Chief Executive Officer’s Report In the past year, IBL has executed a substantial part of the three-year strategy set out in its 2016-17 integrated report. The strategy’s aim is to strengthen IBL’s Mauritian core while expanding regionally and internationally, positioning us as the region’s leading diversified group. We have continued to transform our Group and our business model in order to create ongoing value for our stakeholders. Our Corporate Centre functions work more closely with our operations’ management teams to help them achieve robust, sustainable growth. We have also created a number of key roles that allow us to take a Group-level view of innovation, strategy, internal audit, risk and sustainability. These include a Group Head of Corporate Services, a Head of Risk Management, Compliance & Regulatory Affairs; Ethics Officer and a Group Strategic Innovation & Excellence Executive. IBL’s Mission, Vision and Values Vision: Shaping a brighter world, together IBL aims to work ethically and with integrity everywhere that we operate and invest. Our purpose is to create a brighter, more sustainable world. Mission As a diverse and responsible corporate citizen, we enhance the talent of our people and inspire them to better serve our stakeholders in a trustful, open and efficient way Values: People 1st, Passion, Integrity, Excellence, Responsibility and Creativity Our values are the bedrock of our ambitious yet principled culture. They shape how we do business, govern our group and interact with our stakeholders – from our people and partners to the communities in which we work. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 / 33 02 IBL’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH: CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR ALL IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 8 / 33 02 | IBL’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH: CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR ALL Sustainability is at the heart IBL’s Mission, Vision and Values. It is a key part of our strategy and it challenges us to innovate, for instance by targeting new markets and developing increasingly environmentally-friendly and socially responsible products and services. We believe that sustainability will drive our performance in the long term, and that it should be at the centre of how we run our businesses every day. IBL has defined a Group-level sustainability approach that allows us to create value for our businesses and stakeholders while managing our environmental, social and governance-related risks and impact. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 / 33 02 | IBL’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH: CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR ALL How we've begun to deliver on our sustainability approach: AREAS OF CONCERN STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS THIS YEAR NEXT STEPS To be a responsible ∙ Human Capital Strategy deployed at IBL Group level to invest in our people ∙C  ontinue to implement IBL’s Human employer and business and reward performance (see report on p.66) (SDGs 3,4,5,8,10). Capital Strategy. in Mauritius and abroad, ∙ Investment within IBL communities via FJL and other CSR vehicles ∙C  ontinue to work with and invest in the while taking care of (see report on p.78) (SDGs 1,3,4,11). People and communities in which IBL operates. all our stakeholders, ∙ Proactive, transparent engagement with Froid des Mascareignes stakeholders Stakeholders ∙C  ontinue to improve engagement with including our team as part of the “learning by doing” sustainability best practices and materiality (UNGC 1 to 6) stakeholders to understand their concerns. members. analysis (see report on p.72). ∙ Workshops to embed IBL Group Values and IBL Together culture among staff. ∙C  ontinued improvement of GroupTo apply good business ∙ Ongoing compliance with the Corporate Governance Code for Mauritius (SDG 16). level oversight of sustainability, strategy and governance ∙ Creation of new Group-level functions such as risk management, compliance and risk management. practices and and ethics to improve oversight and accountability. ∙ I nstitutionalisation of sustainability disseminate them to Ethics and ∙ Working with IBL operations’ management teams as they roll out these policies monitoring and reporting in order to our stakeholders. Governance to their businesses. improve accountability. To manage our ∙F  easibility study of Blue Economy initiatives (e.g. ∙ Establishment of Group-wide sustainability policies: Sustainability + Waste. environmental innovative agro projects and industrial processes ∙ Launch of the Group’s sustainability programme with Blue Economy specialist footprint by improving to reduce waste while creating value) (SDG 9). Gunter Pauli (SDGs 9,17). business practices, ∙T  o deploy energy-efficient solutions across the ∙ Supported the Island Bio social entrepreneurs through the donation of a van as innovating and Group (SDGs 7, 9, 11, 12, 13). well as ad-hoc assistance (on communications, branding, marketing, use of IBL Environment taking advantage of ∙C  ontinue to support local entrepreneurs who network) (SDGs 1, 2, 8, 10, 11, 12). (UNGC 7-8-9) sustainable business seek to address sustainability issues. ∙ Continued to be an active member of the Waste Committee at Business development ∙C  reate partnerships at national level to Mauritius and to take part in its waste project as a pilot company (SDGs 11, 12, 17). opportunities. implement waste management solutions. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 10 / 33 02 | IBL’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH: CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR ALL Reporting in line with global standards used to establish its material topics. It also includes a materiality matrix developed using Value Chain Mapping (VCM) and Multi-Criteria Analysis (MCA). IBL is committed to monitoring, assessing and reporting on its sustainability in line with international standards including the UN Global Compact Principles The pilot project was observed by IBL’s 20-odd Sustainability Champions, (UNGC). Our aim is to contribute to global aims such as the Sustainable who work in companies across the Group. The aim was for the Champions Development Goals (SDGs). to learn about the process in order to implement the materiality analysis in their own companies in the coming years. FDM is now in the process of IBL is in the process of institutionalising sustainability reporting based on writing its first Sustainability Report based on this materiality analysis. It Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards within our Corporate Centre and is also establishing a framework to monitor and manage the sustainability wider Group, based on data collection systems now being put into place. issues identified. Both the methodology and the resulting sustainability This initiative will also strengthen our integrated reporting, which is itself a reports will be available on IBL’s website in the 2018-19 financial year. reflection of our desire to improve transparency and accountability across our Group. Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs call upon the private sector, including IBL Ltd, to advance sustainable IBL has also been a Participant member of the United Nations Global Compact development through their investments, the solutions they develop and the since November 2017 and a Member of the local UNGC Advisory Committee good practice they adopt. since March 2018. As Mauritius’ largest diversified group – active in nine different sectors and In addition, IBL adheres to the guiding principles of the Stock Exchange of employing more than 25,000 people – IBL recognises that it must play a role Mauritius Sustainability Index (SEMSI). These are based on GRI standards in helping to achieve the global SDGs. (G4), with companies selected for listing based on corporate governance, economy, environment and social sustainability criteria. As of next year, we will use the SDG Compass to identify our main contributions to the Goals and more robustly report against them. We will start to build the Pilot project to identify material sustainability Group’s understanding of the SDGs through a number of IBL-UN awareness issues at Froid des Mascareignes sessions aimed at our Managers, as well as via the AfrAsia Bank Sustainability Over the past financial year, with support from Ecological Living in Action Ltd, Summit on the topic of “Translating the SDGs into your business”. the Group has run a pilot project to document how Froid des Mascareignes (FDM), one of its companies, identifies and reports on its material We are committed to reducing the negative impact of our operations and sustainability issues. The project’s final report reviews the methodology, value chain, while improving the positive contribution that our core business tools and internal and external stakeholder engagement processes that FDM makes to the 2030 Agenda. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 / 33 02 | IBL’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH: CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR ALL IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 12 / 33 03 HUMAN RIGHTS IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 / 33 03 | HUMAN RIGHTS Placing People 1st new Leadership Executive Acceleration Programme for Corporate Centre executives and high-potential managers. Finally, IBL carried out a Great IBL Ltd is committed to upholding the human rights of all those directly Place to Work survey within its Corporate Centre and operations, whose or indirectly involved in our operations. We fully support the Universal results are discussed in greater depth in the Labour section of this report. Declarations of Human Rights. The principles of this declaration form the For an in-depth review of our Human Capital strategy, please read the foundation of our environmental and Safety and Health policies as well as of Human Capital section of our 2017-18 Integrated Report, available online at other procedures including recruitment. www.iblgroup.com. We recognise that having highly skilled and motivated employees is crucial to our Group’s success in the long term, and we have made considerable Promoting business ethics across the Group progress in implementing the Human Capital strategy that IBL announced The Board of IBL recently approved a new Code of Business Ethics applicable to last year. Its aim is to help IBL attract, retain and engage the talent it needs, all Group company employees and Directors. The Code provides a framework now and in the future. It will achieve this by offering attractive remuneration, for ethical behaviour and sound decision-making. It includes a number of training and development opportunities and a supportive, engaging principles that draw on the Group’s values, outlines the governance of ethics workplace underpinned by our unique “IBL Together” corporate culture. This at IBL and sets out a detailed procedure through which to raise concerns. year, in partnership with Korn Ferry Hay, our Human Capital team completed Whistle-blowing procedures are also included in the Code. Breaches of the a review of job descriptions for all Corporate Centre staff, harmonising the Code will not be tolerated and may lead to disciplinary action. terms and conditions of their employment and aligning their salaries and benefits with the market. We also launched a new Long-Term Incentive Plan IBL’s Ethics Officer is currently devising a communication strategy to raise for Group executives and made headway in implementing a new Performance IBL team members’ awareness of the Code and the ethical behaviours it Management System. promotes. As of 2019, the Code of Business Ethics will be disseminated through e-module training, alongside modules on sustainability awareness, Alongside this, IBL is offering our teams an increasing amount of training as part of the induction pack given to every new employee. and opportunities for professional development. 32 managers attended the second iteration of our Management Development Programme, run in partnership with Stellenbosch University. We have also launched a The Code will shortly be available on IBL’s website at www.iblgroup.com IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 14 / 33 03 | HUMAN RIGHTS Ensuring workers are provided with suitable, safe and sanitary Creating a diverse, equal opportunity workplace work facilities The Human Capital and Compliance teams are in the process of developing The Safety and Health of our people is core to our company’s values. We an Equal Opportunity Policy that will comply with the Mauritian Equal are fully committed to offering and maintaining a safe and healthy work Opportunities Act. This policy will set out a framework for anti-discriminatory environment for all employees, as far as reasonably practicable, and for any behaviour in relation to recruitment, promotion, sexual harassment, etc. other people affected by our professional activities. The aim is to minimise the risk of employees being discriminated against and In that respect we undertake to: to promote fair, merit-based recruitment, training, selection, and hiring. Our Establish efficient Safety and Health guidelines and work procedures to intention is to continue to build an organisation where each employee will prevent accidents, incidents, injuries, near-misses, work-related illnesses make full use of their talents, skills, experience and competences, and where and unsafe acts and conditions; the employee feels respected and valued regardless of their status; that is, of Promote awareness of Safety and Health at all levels within the Group and their age, caste, colour, creed, ethnic origin, any impairments, marital status, in compliance with local statutory legislation; place of origin, political opinion, race, sex or sexual orientation. Keep up to date with the latest findings and best practice relating to Safety and Health, and pro-actively involve our employees in all Group initiatives; During the last months, 42 IBL Executives and Managers took part in a and half-day Equal Opportunity Workshop for the private sector conducted by Maintain a culture of safety that encourage team members at every the former president of Mauritius’ Equal Opportunities Commission. Efforts level to shoulder responsibly for their own safety and that of their team were also made to raise awareness of Mauritian labour laws earlier this year, members, visitors and contractors. via a workshop attended by 35 Group Executives, Managers and Human Capital team members. In the coming months, we will also continue to run Safety and Health is also part of the inclusion training provided to every new awareness-raising sessions to improve employer-employee relationships. employee at IBL. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 / 33 03 | HUMAN RIGHTS “Women matter”: A cause that is dear to our hearts The Board of Directors has also improved its diversity and gender balance by bringing new skills into play. It now consists of 14 Directors (eight NonOver the past several years, IBL has launched a number of initiatives in order Executive Directors, four Independent Non-Executive Directors and two to empower its female employees. So far, 13 women professionals occupying Executive Directors) including two women. management positions in different companies within the Group have attended the KIP Leading Women’s programme. This international leadership To officialise the Group’s commitment to women’s equality, our Group CEO, programme, held in Mauritius and South Africa, is run by the KIP Centre for together with our Group Chief Human Capital Officer and our Sustainable Leadership in partnership with the prestigious GIBS University of Pretoria. Development Corporate Manager, signed a Statement of Support for the United Nations’ Women’s Empowerment Principles in October 2018. At the end of October 2018, IBL also created a working group on “Bridging the A number of actions resulting from this commitment will be taken Gender Gap in Mauritius and at IBL Together . during the coming year. The statement itself will be available on the IBL website shortly. To increase our rate of progress in 2018 and in the coming years, our Group CEO has tasked the IBL Sustainability team with putting together a diverse focus group on gender inclusion, in order to: Inclusion of people with disabilities in IBL workplaces IBL organised an awareness-raising workshop on the inclusion of Persons Take stock of where we are at group level; with Disabilities (PWDs) in our workplaces, with support from youth4jobs Map and implement possible avenues through which to make a tangible (India) and the Global Rainbow Foundation (Mauritius). Our Group also ran an impact on gender inclusion within IBL and beyond; audit and social survey to establish how many PWDs are currently employed Raise awareness of the issue at all levels within the Group; within the IBL Group and what facilities are offered to them. The survey Improve gender equality and empower all women (SDG5) employed also aimed to identify companies interested in collaborating with the Global at IBL. Rainbow Foundation (GRF) to improve conditions for PWDs in the workplace. IBL also spearheaded a number of initiatives to raise awareness of gender equality this year. We notably invited our Human Capital and CSR Managers RESULTS OF SURVEY ON PWDS WITHIN THE IBL GROUP as well as members of the gender inclusion focus group to a workshop and TOTAL NUMBER OF GROUP COMPANIES WHO TOOK PART 17 debate on SDG5. This was co-organised by the UN Global Compact’s Global Operations leader, as well as by representatives of the United Nations TOTAL NUMBER OF TEAM MEMBERS WITHIN THOSE COMPANIES 6282 Development Programme (UNDP) Country Office in Mauritius and the TOTAL NUMBER OF PWDS EMPLOYED WITHIN THOSE COMPANIES 86 International Organization for Migration (IOM). IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 16 / 33 03 | HUMAN RIGHTS Initial results indicate that certain companies are better equipped to acceptable practices in the workplace. Mer des Mascareignes in particular accommodate PWDs than others. However, several companies operating aims to be certified by 2019. in labour-intensive industries (including Pick and Buy Ltd (Winners) and Phoenix Beverages Limited) have some of the Group’s most disabilityfriendly facilities, and are therefore in a position to continuously promote the The SA 8000 Standard assessed a company’s performance based integration of PWDs in the workplace. on the following eight criteria: No child labour No discrimination Towards social compliance No forced or compulsory labour Disciplinary practices Many of IBL’s operations actively seek to comply with the world’s leading Health and safety Working hours social certification standards. IBL’s Seafood Hub companies are working Freedom of association and Remuneration towards social compliance by implementing SA8000, a certification standard right to collective bargaining Management systems that encourages organisations to develop, maintain, and apply socially DOORWAY WITH TOILET FOR FACILITIES OFFERED: INFRASTRUCTURE NONE LIFT CAR PARKING LIGHTING RAMPS PUSHBAR WHEELCHAIR AFRASIA BANK LTD ✓ ✓ QUANTILAB ✓ PHOENIX BEVERAGES LIMITED ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ THE BEE EQUITY PARTNERS LTD ✓ ✓ GWS TECHNOLOGIES LTD ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ CITY BROKERS LTD ✓ THE CONCREATE AGENCY LTD ✓ ✓ BLUELIFE LTD ✓ ✓ PICK AND BUY LIMITED ✓ ALENTARIS LTD ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ CHANTIER NAVAL DE L'OCÉAN INDIEN LTD ✓ IBL LTD ✓ ✓ LOGIDIS LTD ✓ ✓ IBL LTD FROZEN WAREHOUSE ✓ ✓ SOMATRANS SDV LTD ✓ ✓ ✓ GROUND 2 AIR LTD ✓ THE UNITED BASALT PRODUCTS LTD ✓ ✓ IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 / 33 04 LABOUR IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 18 / 33 04 | LABOUR Making IBL a Great Place to Work children’s rights, including by protecting children from general abuse and sexual exploitation. Child labour considerations are already embedded into its Freedom of Association employment policies and Human Rights Policy. Group employees have the freedom to join employees’ associations and/or unions. At the time of writing, 15% of our employees in Operation companies working in various sectors were members of recognised trade unions. Remuneration The Group aims to respect the applicable minimum wages for each sector it Child labour is active in, as per the different government regulations for each category of Companies within IBL’s Seafood Cluster, namely Froid des Mascareignes, Mer worker. Furthermore, the Group has developed a remuneration framework des Mascareignes and Marine Bioproducts, have put a Child Labour and Forced for its managerial positions and Senior Executives, based on the Korn Ferry Labour Policy into place after the issue was identified as a potentially sensitive Hay Group’s international methodology. The Corporate Centre has extended topic in the industry. Within IBL’s Hospitality Cluster, LUX* Island Resorts this practice to employees at ever level. The framework will in future be also has a clear Child Protection Policy. LUX* is committed to respecting revised annually, based on national remuneration benchmarks. Great Place to Work survey at IBL GPTW RESULTS FOR CORPORATE CENTRE This year, IBL ran a Great Place to Work survey within its Corporate Centre and a number of its companies. The Survey revealed that while Managers and Senior Managers are more engaged that the general staff, all of our team members feel a strong sense of pride about working for IBL. It also demonstrated that opportunities for career growth and learning and 93% 80% 64% development as well as our ability to retain staff over the long term are our three greatest assets. Responsive rate: Great Place To Work: Responsive score: The Survey identified a number of areas for growth. These will form the 196 Invited Benchmark: 70% to Taking everything into basis of a roadmap to improve our working culture and the professional be considered a Great account, I would say this is a Place To Work great place to work. environment we offer in the future. They include work-life balance initiatives, recognition practices and internal communication. Working with external consultants, IBL companies will conduct focus groups among their employees and devise roadmaps to become better places to work. 63% 66% 55% 75% 64% Creditability Respect Fairness Pride Camaraderie IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 / 33 05 ENVIRONMENT IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 20 / 33 05 | ENVIRONMENT Reducing IBL’s energy footprint and increasing our efficiency commitment was first made2. Specific corporate policies3 and regular training ensure team members are aware of energy considerations and equipped to IBL is aware of the environmental impact of its Group energy consumption. make appropriate decisions. LUX* believes it is important to be accountable, The Group is committed to reducing its carbon-based energy footprint by and reports publicly on the projects it has invested in and the yearly progress a third within the next three years, thanks to a strategic partnership with a it has achieved. partner to be announced shortly. It will do this by: The company continually invests in external energy assurance from Reducing its use of fossil fuels by implementing energy-efficient methods accredited auditors. All eight of LUX*’s properties in Mauritius, Reunion and and business practices across the Group; and the Maldives are Green Globe-certified. The certification notably requires the Looking into renewable energy sources such as solar or methane from adoption of international best practice in energy savings. effluents. During the 2017-18 financial year, and going beyond LED light retrofits and Several of our companies are already actively working to reduce their energy the implementation of energy management systems, LUX* reiterated its consumption. renewable energy pledge during the Small Islands Developing States (SIDS) private sector forum. Energy management initiatives at LUX* Resorts and Hotels LUX* Resorts has made progress on its commitment to reduce energy consumption and offset harmful gas through United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)-registered projects in six countries across two continents1. 1. Carbon Offsetting Projects https://aera-group.fr/fiche/lux-resorts-hotels/ 2. https://www.luxresorts.com/media/4903/lux-scsr-vision-2020.pdf Energy management has been incorporated into the LUX* Vision 2020 3. Sustainability Policy https://www.luxresorts.com/media/5232/lux_sustainability_policy.pdf Corporate Sustainability Management Plan since 2013-14, when this Environmental Policy https://www.luxresorts.com/media/5230/lux_environmental_policy.pdf IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 / 33 05 | ENVIRONMENT This pledge aligns with the aims of its flagship carbon-reduction strategy, community, investors, shareholders, tour operators or other partners, and Tread Lightly by LUX*, which invites guests to contribute to certified the governments of the territories in which LUX* operates. UNFCCC, Verified Carbon Standard or Gold Standard offsetting projects. This strategy, which aligns with the UNFCCC Paris Agreement, the SDGs and Earth Hour at all LUX* destinations the UN’s SAMOA (SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action) Pathway, will see Every year, LUX* takes part in Earth Hour, a global campaign to raise renewable energy projects implemented in the SIDS locations in which LUX* awareness of the impact of energy consumption on our planet. Between operates, as well as in other destinations around the globe. 8:30pm and 9:30pm on the 24th of March 2018, LUX* properties in all destinations dimmed their lights to benefit the Earth. Following the success of a pilot project on LUX*’s private island, l’Ile des Deux Cocos, the company is working with renewable energy experts to develop a The resorts also organised a range of awareness-raising activities. more ambitious project at LUX* South Ari Atoll in the Maldives. Sustainability representatives worked with various departments, guests and young residents to develop activities including early morning beach All LUX* stakeholders stand to benefit from these projects, which help cleans in Reunion, candle-lit dinners in Mauritius, documentary projections to achieve national, regional and international sustainability objectives. in the Maldives and traditional yak butter candle-making workshops in Key stakeholders include team members, guests, members of the local Yunnan, China. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 22 / 33 05 | ENVIRONMENT LUX*’s Energy Consumption during 2017-18 in Figures: A 13% reduction in energy consumption since FY 2013/14 Examples of initiatives 147,00 146,16 160 KWH/RNS KWH/RNS LED light retrofits in all properties 127,82 119,52 KWH/RNS Implementation of Energy Management Systems 114,88 Awareness-raising among team members 120 KWH/RNS KWH/RNS LUX* Laundry Asterix, a laundry reduction programme that engages with guests and raises awareness of water and energy usage 80 Carbon Offsetting 40 Tread Lightly by LUX* 60% Reduction 0 FY 13/14 FY 14/15 FY15/16 FY16/17 FY17/18 Achieved millionth participating guest night (with a in green house donation of 1 EUR per guest) between 20132018 gas (GHG) Contributed over 13M MUR to 9 offsetting projects Emissions since Renewable Energy 97,000+ tonnes of CO2 offset FY 2013/14 59.52 KWP LUX* reiterates pledge at SIDS forum. Lux* Tread Lightly Scope 1 & 2 (TCO2E/RN) Ile Des Deux Cocos photovoltaic plant. plant enabling the island to 14,685 KWH become 100% self-sufficient in terms of energy 35 000 33 045 TCO2/RN produced by photovoltaic panels 30 000 Reduction in CO2 production of Use of diesel reduced by 25 000 15.9 tonnes per year 5,874 litres per year 20 000 18 624 TCO2/RN 14 621 15 551 TCO2/RN 15 000 TCO2/RN 12 946 TCO2/RN 01 10 000 LUX* South Target capacity of 550 KWP Ari Atoll photoEstimated diesel savings of 200,000 litres per year 5000 voltaic plant: Phase 01 & 02 02 Incorporate battery storage Total target capacity: ~2.5 MWP 0 FY 13/14 FY 14/15 FY15/16 FY16/17 FY17/18 IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 / 33 05 | ENVIRONMENT A solar farm at Alteo Ltd Froid des Mascareignes (FDM) In 2017-18, Alteo Ltd launched Helios Beau Champ, a solar farm, in partnership Since 2017, FDM has invested in an energy monitoring device, installed with French renewable energy specialist Quadran. Initiated in early 2016 Variable Speed Drives (VSD) and soft-started refrigeration compressor following a call for tenders from the Mauritian Central Electricity Board (CEB), motors at the refrigeration plant one of its complexes. This refrigeration the Helios Beau Champ project has already been brought to the United plant has been chosen as a pilot to monitor and assess every aspect of Nations' attention in the context of its clean development initiatives. It is part power consumption. Continuous improvements are being made, with FDM of Mauritius' sustainable development strategy, which includes emission also investing in LED lights. All existing high-power consumable lights will be reduction targets agreed at COP21. replaced this year. The project represents a MUR 385 million investment. Once it is complete, it Creating value from waste and reducing will consist of 38,016 270W photovoltaic panels over a 14-hectare area. It will our waste to landfill be able to generate 10.3 MWp in power for a maximum of 9 MW injected into the national grid. Waste has been identified as one of IBL’s main Group-level environmental impacts. As a diversified Group, we generate many different kinds of waste PhoenixBev for which we must find sustainable solutions. This year, we set up a number of Group-level initiatives to tackle this issue, some of which have become PhoenixBev intends to achieve ISO 14001: 2015 certification for its two business opportunities. non-alcoholic beverage units by the end of 2018 or early 2019. This reflects the company's various environmental policies as well as the international Group waste management policy standards of The Coca-Cola Company and Suntory Beverages & Food Europe, with whom PhoenixBev partners with. This is another opportunity for A Group waste management policy has been created as an extension of the PhoenixBev to ensure that its various production units meet environmental IBL Sustainability Policy to enable IBL to reduce its dependency on landfill. and qualitative standards, as well as key industrial health and safety norms. Companies are asked to put appropriate measures in place to reduce their PhoenixBev is also aiming for a 14001: 2015 certification for its brewery waste and environmental impact; protect workers from occupational safety by early 2020, and will seek to certify its commercial department and and health risks related to the waste they generate; and make the most of distribution-related activities by 2023. opportunities to recover resources from waste through a “Blue” or Circular Economy (zero waste) approach. For example, as an initial result of this waste management plan, 3.5 tonnes of e-waste were collected for recycling this year. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 24 / 33 05 | ENVIRONMENT Circular Economy initiatives at IBL policies and budget measures; and with the private sector on guidelines for IBL believes that sustainable solutions must be inspired by nature’s design businesses and pilot projects to help them implement efficient, effective principles. We are currently working on a strategic partnership with Dr recycling schemes. The aim is also for the private sector to work with the Gunter Pauli, the international Blue Economy expert and founder of the Zero Mauritian government to minimise waste streams and devise new wasteEmission Research Initiatives (ZERI) Foundation. This partnership will allow management solutions. IBL to identify higher value-added solutions for waste, effluents and byproducts generated by our operations and activities. A shortlist of solutions Green Port Initiative has been identified and will be communicated soon. On the 5th of June 2015, on the occasion of World Environment Day, the Mauritius Port Authority (MPA) revived its Port Environment Charter to Marine Biotechnology Products, one of IBL’s Seafood Cluster companies, encourage port stakeholders to take part in its Green Port Initiative. The Port has already embraced this principle and transforms fish by-products into Environment Charter was endorsed by all port stakeholders, including Froid fish meal or oil, both higher value-added products. Our beverage company, des Mascareignes, an IBL operation, to create a cleaner, more sustainable port PhoenixBev, is working towards glass recycling solutions via the Mauritius environment. Following this, on World Cleanup Day 2018, the MPA, together Glass Gallery, and is rethinking how it manages the PET waste generated with FDM and four other IBL partners, agreed to regularly clean the port by the bottling industry. A Bottle to Bottle project is currently being assessed. thanks to a floating debris recovery craft. This small craft will keep the port’s waters clean and free from floating debris and other floating waste materials. Last May, IBL invited leaders from Mauritius’ private sector to a seminar In October 2018 alone, 547 kg of waste was collected from the port’s waters. on “The Circular Economy: Towards a competitive, sustainable economy”. This was followed by an afternoon workshop on “The Circular Economy: From principles to practice”. Since then, IBL has identified a number of Encouraging environmentally-friendly entrepreneurship potential Circular Economy projects and in some cases is already working on IBL makes consistent efforts to encourage eco-friendly local entrepreneurfeasibility studies. ship. In partnership with social enterprise Island Bio (the only Mauritian NGO recognised by Slow Food International), we now hold a regular organic Market Participation in national waste management efforts for IBL Corporate Centre employees. IBL has also offered Island Bio a private In 2017, IBL joined an industry-wide waste management effort led by van to facilitate their operations at our company headquarters. Furthermore, Business Mauritius’ Waste Sub-Committee. This consisted of a pilot project through our internal network, we facilitated a supply contract between whereby nine Groups or companies consulted private sector actors to them and new LUX* brand SALT and are helping them identify potential identify issues and opportunities relating to waste management and share clients across the Group. We believe this benefits our employees as well as knowledge with their peers. As a result of this data-gathering and analysis, the communities in our areas of operation. A number of other partnership Business Mauritius has been able to work closely with the government on projects between IBL and local entrepreneurs are also in the pipeline. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 / 33 05 | ENVIRONMENT A successful public-private partnership to clear invasive alien These two projects are part of a national Government of Mauritius, UNDP species and to restore native forest and Global Environment Facility (GEF) initiative on “Expanding Coverage and Strengthening Management Effectiveness of the Protected Area Network IBL has been involved in forest restoration for many years. We work with (PAN) in Mauritius”. Mauritius’ National Parks and Conservation Services, part of the Ministry of Agro-Industry and Food Security; local NGOs (FORENA, the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation); and annual trail run Ze Dodo Trail Ltd. Similarly, IBL’s environmentally-friendly annual sports event, Ze Dodo Trail, works with local NGO FORENA and the National Park and Conservation In 2012, we carried out an initial weeding project in Petrin, in the Black River Services to protect and rehabilitate endemic and indigenous forest in a Gorges National Park, to attempt to eradicate invasive species and restore popular part of the Black River Gorges National Park. Invasive alien species native forest to the area. Thereafter, IBL funded yearly maintenance weeding were eradicated from 500 m² of parkland in October 2017, with an additional of the site in order to eradicate new invasive plants. To date, 30,000 m² of 500 m² weeded in April 2018. According to FORENA, 130 plants were planted forest have been restored at Petrin. Based on a recent survey of the area, in 2017, resulting in carbon savings of 110.1 kg, while 1181 people participated the quality of the native forest has improved and native plant species are in the trail run. In 2018, 145 plants with a carbon footprint of 119.5 kg were beginning to thrive. planted, while 1213 runners took part in the race. In addition, a critically endangered species of plant, Olax psittacorum, or Raising employee awareness: “Bois Perroquet”, has recently been found in the Petrin area maintained by Changing mind-sets and encouraging action IBL. The name is probably due to the fact that endemic echo parakeets feed IBL seeks to raise its employees’ awareness of subjects including recycling, on its fruit or seeds. the Circular Economy and zero food waste initiatives. We send regular memos to staff and also spearhead initiatives such as our regular organic market. In addition, IBL Ltd also adopted a hectare (10,000 m²) of Ebony Forest in Next year, we plan to include an e-module on sustainability within team Chamarel in October 2018. In 2018-19, the site will be weeded and endemic members’ induction packs, and to run a sustainability awareness workshop. species planted. More than 150 partners will benefit from the site’s educational tours, while IBL employees will be encouraged to visit the project with their families. This will help promote Ebony Forest’s conservation work and teach visitors to respect the environment. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 26 / 33 06 PREVENTING CORRUPTION IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 / 33 06 | PREVENTING CORRUPTION Good governance: Set out IBL’s standards of conduct for the prevention of corruption; a prerequisite to achieving IBL’s ambitions Define procedures to mitigate/reduce IBL’s corruption risk; and Communicate and review the policy and its associated procedures IBL’s Board of Directors is committed to enforcing robust governance on a regular basis. practices across the Group. It firmly believes that good corporate governance enhances decision-making and investor trust, thereby creating sustainable The policy will be made public shortly. IBL’s Ethics Officer is devising a value for shareholders and stakeholders and enabling transparent dialogue communication strategy to best promote the policy; raise awareness of it with them. among IBL’s team members; and convey the importance of IBL’s fight against corruption and related behaviours. The Code should be read in conjunction The Board sets general strategies and policies and ensures they are with the Group’s Code of Business Ethics. A breach of the Code on the part implemented with support from highly experienced and professional senior of a team member may lead to disciplinary action being taken against them. governance officers. In addition, the Board has established three specialised sub-committees to provide it with advice and support: a Corporate IBL is committed to conducting appropriate and reasonable due diligence Governance Committee, Audit & Risk Committee, and Strategic Committee. with regard to the reputation and integrity of any business in which it invests. To continue to improve our risk management systems and better define, Group anti-corruption policy mitigate and monitor emerging risks, IBL has appointed a new Head of Risk in 2018 IBL’s Board of Directors approved an anti-corruption policy applicable Management, Compliance & Regulatory Affairs. We also strengthened to all employees and Directors. Its objectives are to: our internal Audit function by appointing a new Head of Internal Audit in Reinforce IBL’s commitment to anti-corruption compliance; October 2018. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 28 / 33 07 CSR AT IBL TOGETHER IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 / 33 07 | CSR AT IBL TOGETHER Creating a brighter future for all In order to achieve these goals, the foundation runs short-term in-house IBL’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) work is a key part of IBL’s wider projects; manages long-term “corporate programmes” focused around each sustainability approach. It is a particularly crucial part of our stakeholder of its priority areas; and supports external NGOs. FJL seeks to reduce poverty engagement and of our efforts to invest in the communities we work in. by working in the following areas: IBL delivers CSR work through Fondation Joseph Lagesse, the AfrAsia Foundation, the Helping Hands Foundation at Phoenix Bev, A Small Step Education Community development Matters as well as via CSR committees within individual IBL businesses. including small-scale Fondation Joseph Lagesse community projects Health known as “Projets Sourire” The primary channel through which IBL disburses corporate social responsibility is Fondation Joseph Lagesse (FJL). It was set up in 2005 by Arnaud Lagesse, now IBL’s Group CEO. ALLOCATION OF FUNDING BY PRIORITY AREA (NON-AUDITED) FJL’s vision for 2018-19 onwards is to reduce poverty sustainably in Mauritius by: Supporting livelihoods; Education 12,382,720 Promoting social justice and human dignity; Community Contributing to young people’s growth and development; Development 3,709,326 Providing access to high-quality education; and Empowering communities. Health 1,184,012 These aims are in line with the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Projects Sourire 759,461 SDG 1: No Poverty SDG 3: Good health & well-being Chemin Rail social housing project 20,637,141 SDG 4: Quality education SDG 11: Sustainable cities & communities Rs 0 5M 10M 15M 20M 25M IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 30 / 33 07 | CSR AT IBL TOGETHER Projets Sourire: Strengthening IBL’s engagement with the local A challenging environment for CSR in Mauritius community Fondation Joseph Lagesse receives CSR funds from almost 100 different Projets Sourire are local community projects that are managed by CSR IBL companies and offices. It relies on these funds in order to operate. It also Committees within IBL businesses. These small-scale or one-off projects, relies on non-CSR donations from other companies or individuals. consisting of donations of supplies for instance, are run in areas where IBL is present or in which its employees live. Their aim is to strengthen local In the past year, FJL has experienced a major reduction in its CSR funding due relationships between IBL and the community and to encourage IBL team to new Mauritian CSR regulations. These require 50% of corporate CSR funds members to become CSR volunteers. to be transferred to a new national CSR fund administered by the National CSR Foundation. As a result, FJL has had difficulty in carrying out its own In 2017-18 long-term corporate projects in education and health while continuing to fund its partner NGOs.  18 short-term in-house projects were run, reaching over 300 direct beneficiaries, of which more than 175 children, 50 young people and This government CSR levy is set to increase to 75%. FJL is therefore 180 families. having to withdraw from its funding relationships with external non-profit 4 long-term corporate programmes were run. organisations. However, its new research unit will use evaluation, community Funding was provided to NGOs including Caritas (Centres d’éveil), Kinouété, research and impact analysis to maximise the Foundation’s effectiveness, Soleil de L’Ouest, Terre de Paix, Passerelle, Tipa, Mission Verte and Mouvement allowing us to continue to reduce poverty in Mauritius in the long term. Bien-Être de Batterie Cassée. FJL also plans to seek funding from and create meaningful partnerships with international organisations. It is already working with the Community Anti-Drug Coalition, an international NGO, to implement a unique community programme that aims to reduce substance and alcohol misuse in underprivileged neighbourhoods in Mauritius. Despite the challenging environment for CSR in Mauritius, FJL intends to continue to develop its expertise in community development; encourage IBL team members and businesses to get involved in community service and create local CSR initiatives; and deliver on impactful programmes that empower vulnerable people and communities and sustainably reduce poverty in Mauritius. IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 / 33 07 | CSR AT IBL TOGETHER SDG 1: SDG 4: Teachers trained in Montessori NO POVERTY 8 facilitators from Bois Marchand methods in Bois Marchand, QUALITY EDUCATION trained in community mobilisation benefitting 50 children Two-year community improvement project, Bois Marchand youth project: 33 young people involved Revey Twa Bois Marchand Pou Nou Fierté, launched Empowering Providing communities access to & supporting high-quality 107 afterschool care sessions held, benefitting livelihoods education 57-75 children Major social housing project completed in Chemin Rail: Homes built for 11 families this year Contributing Specialised medical screening provided to 74 children Promoting to young social justice people’s and human growth and dignity development Food support programme in Bois Marchand: 35, 640 meals served to children aged 2 to 9 Housekeeping programme at Chemin Rail Emergency support given to Follow-up home visits from social 51 families after cyclone Berguitta care workers in Bois Marchand: damaged their homes 160 families seen SDG 11: SDG 3: SUSTAINABLE CITIES & GOOD HEALTH & COMMUNITIES WELL -BEING IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 32 / 33 07 | CSR AT IBL TOGETHER Solidarity Kitchens At a glance: IBL Ltd also partners on Les Cuisines Solidaires (Solidarity Kitchens), a pilot project with three objectives: 5 tonnes 25 volunteers To reduce To provide work and of unsold goods saved from landfill per month: fruit and 6 NGOs food waste by a regular income and vegetables, breads and and Forces Vives collecting and recovering unsold to women from pastries, canned goods distributing meals items (though disadvantaged O 03 not on expired B E V backgrounds JE 12,000 products) C TI and enable In operation since EC 19 June 2017 TIV them to build OBJ up work E 01 sweet and savoury meal experience portions prepared per month, for the future. equivalent to Operating in To sort, cook, 2,700 kg Mangalkhan, Malherbes, Camp OBJ 02 of dishes Judge, Atlee, Brewery, Anoska pack and EC TIVE distribute food free to disadvantaged populations Open 5 days a week 100% owned & funded by IBL IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 / 33 IBL Ltd IBL House T. (230)203 2000 BRN: C07001778 Caudan Waterfront F. (230)203 2001 www.iblgroup.com Port Louis, Mauritius E. iblinfo@iblgroup.com IBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 34 / 33
