KSB Group Annual Report 2017 KSB Profile: KSB is a leading supplier of pumps, valves and ­related support services. Our reliable, high-efficiency products are used in applications worldwide where fluids need to be transported or shut off, covering everything from building services, industry and water transport to waste water treatment, power plant processes and mining. Wherever our customers are in the world, 170 service centres are on hand to provide local inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair services. Innovative technology that is the fruit of KSB’s research and development activities forms the basis for the company’s success and that of our customers. Cover: Pump impellers can be reconstructed and reproduced using reverse engineering. G R O UP F INANCIAL HIGHL I GHTS BU S I N E S S D E V E L O P MENT A ND EA R NINGS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Order intake €m 2,265.3 2,156.6 2,261.2 2,321.2 2,241.2 Sales revenue €m 2,205.0 2,165.7 2,334.8 2,181.7 2,247.3 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 117.2 88.2 105.2 89.2* 136.2 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) €m 104.2 74.6 93.4 72.8* 119.4 Earnings after income taxes €m 52.1 47.8 52.2 46.3* 79.9 Cash flow €m 124.4 139.8 137.5 124.4* 142.3 BA L A N C E S H E E T 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Balance sheet total €m 2,253.4 2,350.2 2,291.1 2,277.9* 2,151.5 Fixed assets €m 642.6 641.2 633.1 622.6 591.2 Capital expenditure €m 101.9 82.2 82.8 85.1 57.1 Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 70.6 72.6 72.8 66.2 60.2 Current assets €m 1,519.1 1,596.9 1,573.6 1,568.5 1,520.6 Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) €m 885.4 890.3 870.2 819.7* 844.5 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interests) % 39.3 37.9 38.0 36.0* 39.3 PR O F I TA B I L I T Y 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Return on sales % 4.7 3.5 4.0 3.3 5.3 Return on equity % 11.7 8.5 11.1 8.8* 14.2 Return on capital employed % 5.4 4.1 4.9 4.3 6.6 E M P L OY E E S 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 15,455 15,572 16,196 16,309 16,546 Staff costs €m 796.7 798.8 819.3 784.8* 787.6 SHARES 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 884.4 637.7 659.2 735.7 804.3 Earnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 21.10 18.68 22.30 21.97* 37.38 Earnings per preference share ( EPS ) € 21.36 18.94 22.56 22.23* 37.64 Dividend per ordinary share € 7.50 5.50 5.50 8.50 12.00 Dividend per preference share € 7.76 5.76 5.76 8.76 12.26 * Adjustment under IAS 8 PR O DU CT S AND S ERVICES KSB pumps and valves are primarily used to transport or shut off all kinds of fluid. Their efficient and reliable operation is taken care of by 3,000 service specialists worldwide ­offering inspection, servicing, maintenance, repair and consultancy services. The most ­important fields of application for our products are: K E Y I N D I C ATO R S / P R O D U C T S A N D S E RV I C E S INDUSTRY BUILDING SERVICES WATER ENGINEERING WASTE WATER ENGINEERING ENERGY SUPPLY MINING D I G I TA L T R A N S­FF O R M AT I O N Digital Trans­formation As one of the world’s leading suppliers of pumps, valves and related support services, KSB is a pioneer in top-tier technology. And the expertise of our highly qualified employees makes this the foundation for our success. G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT To improve the efficiency, performance and reliability of our pumps and valves in industry and energy generation, water and waste water, building services and mining appli­ cations, KSB has expanded its research and development work and embraced digital C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S technologies. These enable us to continually enhance our products and services, paving the way for KSB’s profitable and sustainable growth. G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 2 1 4 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Management 92 Balance Sheet 6 To Our Shareholders 93 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 94 Statement of Changes in Equity 18 A Look Back at 2017 96 Statement of Cash Flows 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 97 Notes (Combined Separate Non-financial Report) 154 List of Shareholdings 158 Supervisory Board 160 Legal Representatives 161 Proposal on the Appropriation of the 2 Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 32 Overview 5 34 KSB Cloud GENERAL INFORMATION 38 MyFlow Drive 42 Digital Life Cycle Log 164 Responsibility Statement 46 Additive Manufacturing 165 Independent Auditor’s Report 50 Reverse Engineering 175 Glossary 176 Contacts 3 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT COVER 56 Basic Principles of the Group Group Financial Highlights 56 Group Business Model Products and Services 58 Control System Global Presence 58 Research and Development Financial Calendar 59 Economic Review 59 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 60 Business Development and Results of Operations LEGEND 64 Financial Position and Net Assets Glossary 68 Summary of the Performance in the Financial Year Reference to table 68 Dependent Company Report 69 Report on Expected Developments 72 Opportunities and Risks Report 84 Acquisition-related Disclosures 86 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d of the HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f of the HGB) 87 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Sections 315b, 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e of the HGB) 88 Remuneration of the Board of Management CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N M A N AG E M E N T A N D I S S U E S 2 0 1 7 D I G I TA L T R A N S F O R M AT I O N G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 4 Management 6 To Our Shareholders 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 18 A Look Back at 2017 20 Corporate Social Responsibility (Combined Separate Non-financial Report) G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 4 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 MANAGEMENT Dr. Stephan Timmermann Ralf Kannefass took over as the Chairman of the Board of has been responsible for Sales and Service Management of KSB AG on 13 November since 1 July 2017. Having initially taken charge 2017. Since 17 January 2018 he has been a of these areas as a member of the Board of Managing Director and CEO of KSB ManageManagement of KSB AG, he is now assigned ment SE. His areas of responsibility include this responsibility as a Managing Director of Strategy, Human Resources, Communications, KSB Management SE. and Legal and Compliance. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 5 M a na gem en t Dr. Stephan Bross Dr. Matthias Schmitz has been responsible for Technology as well as was assigned responsibility for Controlling / the Corporate Unit Pumps and Corporate Unit Finance, Information Technology and Global Valves since 15 September 2017, initially as a Procurement as a member of the Board of member of the Board of Management of KSB Management of KSB AG on 1 June 2017. Since AG and since 17 January 2018 as a Managing 17 January 2018 he has been in charge of Director of KSB Management SE. In 2018, he also these areas as a Managing Director of KSB took on responsibility for Global Operations. Management SE. 6 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 Dr. Stephan Timmermann Dear Shareholders and Business Partners, As a global company, we operate in a market environment that can change dramatically over­ night due to political or social events. At the same time we are facing developments that may be less sudden, but will nevertheless have radical consequences for the economy and working life. For a mechanical engineering company like KSB, it is above all the rapid change in technology that calls for new solutions in research and development. The ongoing trend towards globali­ sation is also putting traditional production concepts into question. Similarly, the rapid rise of some emerging markets is changing the economic areas we serve, which is something we have to adapt to in terms of sales and service. Finally, demographic trends make it necessary for us to adjust our work and life models in relation to age. For this purpose, we are developing ­regionally differentiated concepts, including qualification and development programmes. People shape our brand To change KSB in a positive way, and thus make it better and well-equipped for the future, is a task we are focusing on. In doing so, we can rely on the readiness to learn, creativity and commitment of our employees. With their work they represent what the KSB brand stands for. And it is they who keep our brand promise every day: Technology that drives success. Wher­ ever they do more for their customers than others, they lay the foundation for future success. To lead our staff through the present changes, to develop their professional skills so they can meet new requirements, and to provide an inspiring work environment for them – these are the tasks which we, as the company’s management, are dedicated to achieving in an effective manner. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 7 To O ur Sh ar eh o l d er s Digitalisation generates ideas Currently we are succeeding particularly well in this with our Business Innovation Lab, where KSB staff collaborate with external specialists and students, and which won an award in 2017. An unconventional approach to thinking and working helps us adapt to digital change and overcome the boundaries between mechanical engineering and information technology. Linking together these fields of technology creates space for innovations which lead to new products, services and business models. From 3D printing to cloud-based service solutions, our aim is to be a pioneer in the industry. Growth opens up new avenues Change requires ideas, performance, and the will to make the most of both. It also requires ­financial resources to bring promising concepts to a successful conclusion. We achieve this through profitable growth and a sustainable ownership structure. Both of these give us the necessary freedom to act. In 2017 we made good progress with a leap in profits of almost 40 %. Our order intake rose by 5.0 % and sales revenue will follow this development in due course. In addition, a com­ fortable net financial position provides us with sufficient leeway to do all that is needed to help our customers, motivate our employees and secure our future. A new structure creates a new basis From an organisational point of view, we are also on the road to change. In mid-January KSB AG converted into a KGaA, a partnership limited by shares. This follows a resolution passed at last year’s Annual General Meeting. With this change in legal form, we have opened up new financial and strategic options for our company, as well as providing a solid basis. The operative business of the new KSB SE & Co. KGaA will be managed by my three colleagues on the former Board of Management and myself as Managing Directors of a newly founded management company. In this KSB Management SE, we rely on the advice and experience of a five-member Administrative Board. It is formally the highest management body of the KGaA. As shareholders, you have automatically become limited partners of the KGaA. Apart from this your status and rights at the Annual General Meeting remain largely unchanged. One ex­ ception is the discontinuation of the Supervisory Board’s personnel decision-making compe­ tence: The new organisation with four Managing Directors no longer has a board of manage­ ment to be elected by this monitoring body. In the present configuration we will work intensively with the Administrative Board and the Supervisory Board to continually improve both the competitiveness and profitability of the company. We feel that we are currently on the right track here. We will be glad if you, as shareholders or business partners, continue with us on the road ahead. Dr. Stephan Timmermann, CEO 8 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The 2017 financial year was dominated by personnel and structural changes, including the change in legal form of KSB Aktiengesellschaft to a partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien] by resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017, which was successfully completed by entry in the Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] on 17 January 2018. Under section 203, sentence 1 of the UmwG [Umwandlungsgesetz – Ger­ man Transformation Act], the members of the Supervisory Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft became members of the Supervisory Board of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the rest of their term in office. By contrast, a Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien (KGaA) has no Board of Manage­ ment; the latter’s tasks have been performed by the general partner of the company, KSB Management SE, Frankenthal, since the change in legal form came into effect. This company is represented by Managing Directors, with the previous members of the Board of Manage­ ment of KSB AG having been appointed to these positions. For the 2017 financial year and the subsequent period until 17 January 2018, this report is based on the former structure of a public limited company under German law [Aktiengesellschaft] with the Board of Manage­ ment as the management and representative body. Where periods after 17 January 2018 are discussed herein, this report refers to the new legal form of a KGaA. Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board continued to perform its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us in a compre­ hensive and timely manner, and in compliance with its duty to inform under the law and Rules of Procedure, about the position of the company, in particular its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as relevant corporate planning and strategic and organisational development issues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis. As in the past, we continued to meet on a regular basis to discuss selected issues in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed all business transactions significant for the company in detail on the basis of the Board of Management’s reports. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. We adopted our resolutions on the reports and proposals by the Board of Management after thorough examination and discussion. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management outside the meetings to discuss the current business development and significant transactions as well as questions of strategy, planning, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. Conflicts of interest of the Supervisory Board members Klaus Kühborth and Monika Kühborth within the framework of the below discussion of relations covering the supply of services of KSB AG to its majority shareholder, Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (formerly Klein Pumpen CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 9 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd GmbH), as well as to other related parties, were disclosed to the Supervisory Board; both did not participate in the taking of resolutions on this subject area. In the reporting period, no other conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board that would have been subject to disclosure in the Report of the Supervisory Board. MAIN FOCUS OF WORK IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD PLENARY SESSIONS Key topics of our consultations with the Board of Management were the revision of strategic objectives, the monitoring of the roll-out of a shared services organisation decided on in 2016 and the continued development of the corporate organisation, including the appointment of four new members to the Board of Management with a view to the change in legal form imple­ mented early in 2018. The analysis of business development in the segments and Regions represented an additional focus, as did major investment projects at various sites. We dealt on an ongoing basis with the company’s economic position, the progress of the new efficiency improvement programme, and the prospects facing selected markets. Based on the recommen­ dations and suggestions contained in the German Corporate Governance Code, we also looked at fundamental aspects of good corporate governance. Special emphasis was placed on corporate culture as KSB again recorded and evaluated employees’ views concerning the company by means of an international spot check. In 2017 four regular Supervisory Board meetings and a constituent meeting were held; the committee also met three times to discuss special topics. The performance of KSB Aktiengesell­ schaft and the Group was the subject of regular discussions, primarily with regard to net assets, financial position, employment levels and strategic direction, as well as material invest­ ment, divestment and acquisition projects. The Board of Management regularly explained to us in detail the ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth for the coming years, including the underlying methodological and strategic considerations. Required investments were subjected to critical analysis before being approved and their implementation was subsequently monitored by us. In this context, the Supervisory Board approved significant financial resources to maintain the high technical level of plants on a Group-wide basis, while at the same time taking into account specific site-­ related aspects. We also repeatedly dealt with the status of the comprehensive investments that were initiated in recent years. For instance, we convinced ourselves that, in particular, the expansion work in our French and our Indian subsidiary is making good progress at the sites in La Roche-­Chalais and Shirwal. The fundamental upgrade of the Pakistani foundry and the construction of our new building in Moscow were largely completed. The latter will serve both administrative and production purposes, and we thereby aim to strengthen the close busi­ ness relationships with Russia and in the neighbouring states. As reported in previous years, considerable technically demanding preparations were required to win a major Chinese order 10 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 for the delivery of pumps. We expect the successful implementation of this ambitious project, whose completion is scheduled for 2018, to strengthen KSB’s market position over the long term. We therefore had the Board of Management continuously update us on the status of or­ der processing. Where the start or expansion of business activities led to property acquisi­ tions, we discussed the long-term impact of such measures. In the light of the ongoing change of requirements to be met by an efficient corporate structure, we completed the discussion about the transformation of KSB AG. To align the company with the future requirements of capital markets and to secure its independence over the long term, the Supervisory Board decided at the start of 2017 to prepare the conversion of KSB AG into a – still stock exchange-listed – partnership limited by shares. After obtaining approval from the Annual General Meeting in May 2017, this was implemented by entry in the Ger­ man Commercial Register on 17 January 2018. We also used the past financial year for a fundamental redesign of corporate management. Following the proposal of the Personnel Committee in each case, four new members of the Board of Management were appointed, including Dr. Stephan J. Timmermann as the Chair­ man [Sprecher] of the Board of Management. With Dr. Peter Buthmann’s departure as of the end of 2017 following his retirement, we completed the reshuffle. We see major potential for our business in the opportunities provided by a stronger focus on certain areas of responsibility. In the course of the change in the legal form of KSB, the members of the Board of Manage­ ment were appointed Managing Directors of the general partner. Repeatedly on the agenda was the continued development of other aspects of the corporate organisation. We devoted particular attention to the reduction in internal administrative expenses, for instance by monitoring the programme kicked off at the end of 2015 by the Board of Management to improve efficiency in all Group areas, which also includes reducing the number of Group companies. Against this background, the outsourcing of standardised pro­ cesses to external services providers (shared services) was also of great importance. With this ambitious project, KSB aims to further standardise internal processes, in particular in the commercial areas, and optimise cost structures permanently in the future. Some adjustment requirements became apparent upon the start of the implementation of this demanding pro­ ject; we discussed them in detail with the Board of Management. Another focus of our delib­e­ rations continued to be the progress made towards strengthening our value-based corporate culture, with the Board of Management providing regular updates. Both interesting findings and new needs for action emerged from a spot check employee engagement survey as a follow-­ CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 11 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd up process to the broadly designed 2016 survey. These have to be addressed in order to continue the constructive dialogue with staff and meet their expectations. By doing this we ensure that the employees’ willingness to perform and engagement are continually strengthened. We also considered the relations covering the supply of services of KSB AG to its majority shareholder and other related parties in the year under review. After initial indications that in­ dividual services to related parties may no longer have been provided on an arm’s length basis or may have been settled either incorrectly or not at all in the past, the Supervisory Board, together with the Board of Management, commissioned auditing and tax consultancy firms as well as a law firm with a comprehensive independent examination of the facts along with the resulting consequences. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported regularly on the status of this matter. For the September session, the Supervisory Board convened for a meeting at the Lille site in France. On this occasion, we discussed in detail with the Board of Management its considera­ tions on the realignment of the individual Board of Management portfolios. Within the scope of compliance with the non-financial reporting requirements imposed by law we com­ missioned the auditors to review this report. The local management informed us of the op­ portunities and risks of the French market. In addition, we visited the modern technical facili­ ties at the plant. At the two sessions in November and December, a focus was on the general economic develop­ ment in China and the consequences this may have on the organisation of KSB’s business in this important market. We also looked at business performance during the financial year and, in particular, at planning for 2018. MAIN FOCUS OF WORK IN THE COMMITTEES In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with five committees in 2017. These prepare the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be dis­ cussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also make their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This alloca­ tion has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and compre­ hensively report in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. 12 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT NOMINATION COMMITTEE PERSONNEL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Until 28 February 2017 Until 28 February 2017 Until 28 February 2017 Dr. Thomas Seeberg Dr. Thomas Seeberg C O M M IT T E E S OF Dr. Martin Auer From 23 March 2017 From 23 March 2017 THE SU P E RV IS ORY From 23 March 2017 Dr. Bernd Flohr Dr. Bernd Flohr B O AR D Oswald Bubel No. of meetings: 3 No. of meetings: 9 and their Chairs, as well No. of meetings: 4 as number of meetings in the year under review AUDIT COMMITTEE MEDIATION COMMITTEE Until 14 April 2017 Until 28 February 2017 Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann Dr. Thomas Seeberg From 15 April 2017 From 23 March 2017 Klaus Burchards Dr. Bernd Flohr No. of meetings: 7 No. of meetings: 0 The Nomination Committee prepared proposals for the appointment of shareholder repre­ sentatives to the Supervisory Board, in particular the Supervisory Board’s nominations for the election of Supervisory Board members by the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017. It convened three times in the year under review. In looking for and evaluating suitable candi­ dates with the requisite expertise and experience of the industry, long-term succession plan­ning is a key factor. The Corporate Development Committee deals with the company’s strategic development, as well as with annual planning and finance, and technology issues. At four meetings in the year under review, it discussed in particular the areas of strategy controlling, production manage­ ment and innovation, and – on an ongoing basis – looked at a number of major investments, which require the approval of the Supervisory Board. The development of certain business types, including but not limited to the general and project businesses, also figured on the agenda, as did tie-in measures during acquisitions and selected projects. The Committee looked in detail at the optimisation of production capacities within our international manufacturing network and the progress of global production integration. Another focus was on the oppor­ tunities offered by digitalisation, which need to be closely observed and harnessed. In addition to members of the Board of Management, the Heads of the relevant specialist departments also regularly took part in the committee meetings. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 13 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd The Personnel Committee held nine meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses personnel decisions as well as topics relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, in­ cluding the terms of the individual service contracts, as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the appointment and remuneration of members of the Board of Manage­ ment were made in plenary session, with the committee acting in a preparatory capacity in each case. In the year under review, the Committee also discussed staff development issues with the aim of ensuring that any need for action in terms of filling Board of Management posi­ tions and positions at the management level directly below the Board is identified at an early stage and followed up. Not least, the Committee is promoting the internal developments within the company that aim at an increased proportion of women in leadership roles. The main focus of deliberations in the financial year was the specific preparation of the person­ nel decisions for Board of Management positions. For instance, the Supervisory Board con­ sented to the early resignation of Werner Stegmüller from the Board of Management – at his own request – effective 31 May 2017. As successor for the Finance portfolio and member of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board appointed Dr. Matthias Schmitz on 22 March 2017, initially for a term of office of three years from 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2020. Ralf Kannefass was appointed on 9 May as the Board of Management member responsible for the Sales portfolio for a term of three years, from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2020. The term of office of the long-standing member of the Board of Management and Human Resources Direc­ tor, Dr. Peter Buthmann, was extended, for six months until the end of 2017, to ensure ade­ quate continuity in the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board approved that the age limit applicable to members of the Board of Management was moderately exceeded. On 12 September 2017, Dr. Stephan Bross was appointed member of the Board of Management (Tech­ nology) for five years with effect from 15 September 2017 until 14 September 2022. Finally, the Supervisory Board appointed Dr. Stephan J. Timmermann as Chairman [Sprecher] of the Board of Management on 18 October 2017 from 13 November 2017 until 30 November 2020 and therefore for about three years; from 1 January 2018, Dr. Timmermann also assumed the role of Human Resources Director. All the above decisions were based on the proposals of the Personnel Committee. The competencies of the committee changed with the coming into effect of the change in legal form. It now essentially decides on the approval of any internal transactions with KSB Man­ agement SE, its Administrative Board members and / or its Managing Directors, on the con­ sent to other activities of these persons, the granting of loans to them and on any matters re­ lated to the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members. The seven meetings of the Audit Committee in the year under review were always attended by a member of the Board of Management and, on several occasions, by the auditors and the Heads of relevant departments. The Committee discussed the 2016 annual and consolidated 14 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 financial statements, as well as the corresponding audit reports submitted by the auditors. The Audit Committee also prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. In addition, the 2015 half-year financial report was discussed with the Board of Management. Moreover, the Committee presented a substantiated recommen­ dation to the Supervisory Board for the election of the auditors at last year’s Annual General Meeting. It then assigned to the auditors the audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2017 financial year and specified the key audit areas. The declaration of in­ dependence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (section 7.2.1), and the auditors’ continued independence and performance of non-audit services were monitored. The Committee also focused on monitoring accounting, the accounting process, the risk management system – taking into ac­ count the relevant reports from Internal Audits – and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system, including compliance and the auditing of the annual financial statements. In this context, the committee members discussed in detail the supply of services to Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, as well as to other related parties. In the context of the clarification of facts and rectification, they also examined the measures taken by the Board of Manage­ ment to obtain compensation for any disadvantages experienced by the company. There was no requirement during the financial year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-Deter­ mination Act]. It became obsolete with the coming into effect of the change in legal form. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance stand­ ards throughout the financial year. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board have so far reported on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursu­ant to sections 289f(2 and 3) and 315d HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. On 12 September 2017 they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. The general partner will now take the place of the Board of Management at KSB SE & Co. KGaA. KSB Aktiengesell­ schaft complied with the German Corporate Governance Code’s recommendations subject to a few justified exceptions. The same applies to KSB SE & Co. KGaA, unless limited deviations from the Code arise from the change in legal form. On 21 March 2018, the Supervisory Board and the general partner, acting via its Managing Directors, issued a joint statement of compliance updated in this respect. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 15 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd ­ UDIT OF THE 2017 ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED A FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (formerly KSB AG) for the year ended 31 December 2017, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB), as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for the year ended 31 December 2017, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), and the proposal by the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. This also applies to the combined separate non-financial report of the company and the Group. The accounting documentation, the proposal by the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings, the non-financial reports and the audit reports submitted by the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were discussed in detail by the Audit Committee, in particular on 14 March 2018, as well as in the Supervisory Board plenary session on 21 March 2018 and explained in depth by the Managing Directors of the general partner. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Mannheim office of PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt, audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (formerly KSB AG) for the year ended 31 December 2017, as well as the consoli­ dated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2017, and issued an unqualified opinion. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review mainly included the recognition of sales revenue based on the accrual principle of accounting and the recording and presentation of transac­ tions with related parties. The non-financial reports were reviewed. The auditors reported on their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Following the final result of the examination by the Audit Committee and its own review, the Supervisory Board raised no ob­ jections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report, as well as the separate non-financial report of the com­ pany and the Group. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board approved the annual financial statements prepared by the general partner. The proposal of the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, and in particular the increase in the dividend to EUR 7.50 per ordinary no-par-value share and EUR 7.76 per preference no-par-value share, is deemed to be appro­ priate by the Supervisory Board in accordance with its own review; it concurs with it. 16 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT The auditors also audited the dependent company report for the 2017 financial year prepared by the general partner in accordance with section 312 of the AktG and issued the following unqualified audit opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that 1. The actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct. 2. The consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high, or disadvantages were compensated.” The report of the general partner and the audit report were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and in plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the general partner and to the statement by the general partner at the end of the dependent company report. CHANGES TO THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND ­ SUPERVISORY BOARD The changes to the Board of Management, i.e. the appointment of Dr. Stephan Bross, Ralf Kannefass, Dr. Matthias Schmitz and Dr. Stephan J. Timmermann as well as the departure of Werner Stegmüller and Dr. Peter Buthmann are described above in detail. Dr. Martin Auer and Dr. Thomas Seeberg resigned from their office as members of the Super­ visory Board as of 28 February in the reporting year, with Dr. Seeberg also stepping down from his position as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Dr. Stella Ahlers and Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann resigned from their office as members of the Supervisory Board with effect from the end of 20 March and 14 April 2017, respectively. Monika Kühborth, Oswald Bubel and Dr. Bernd Flohr were appointed members of the Supervisory Board by order of the Amtsgericht Ludwigshafen am Rhein [Local Court] on 21 March 2017 and Klaus Burchards by order of 18 April 2017, as successors for members who had stepped down. The Super­visory Board elected Dr. Flohr as its Chairman in the session of 22 March 2017. All new members were confirmed in their office by the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017, and Dr. Flohr CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 17 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd was re-elected as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in the immediately following con­ stituent Supervisory Board meeting. Due to his appointment as member of the Board of Man­ agement, Dr. Stephan Bross left the Supervisory Board with effect from 14 September 2017; Dr. Hans Stefan Wiß succeeded him as the elected replacement candidate. Monika Kühborth and Oswald Bubel resigned as members of the Supervisory Board as of the end of January 2018 in order to focus on their responsibilities at KSB Management SE. In their stead, Arturo Esquinca and Prof. Dr.-Ing. Corinna Salander were appointed members of the Supervisory Board by order of the Amtsgericht Ludwigshafen am Rhein dated 26 February 2018. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the members who have left the Board for their close cooperation. We also thank Dr. Seeberg for his prudent leadership. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their continued constructive and com­ mitted work during the past financial year. Frankenthal, 21 March 2018 The Supervisory Board 18 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 A LOOK BACK AT 2017 Q1 Q2 USA CHANGE IN LEGAL KSB divests the business FORM ­activities of US company The Annual General Meet­ KSB AMRI, Inc. with effect ing adopts a resolution to from 31 January. Located in convert KSB Aktiengesell­ ­Houston, Texas, the com­ schaft into a partnership KSB ZAMBIA pany produces butterfly TRAINING limited by shares [KommanThe South African holding valves and actuators for KSB is considered one of ditgesellschaft auf Aktien – company KSB Pumps S.A. the chemical industry. The “Germany’s top training KGaA]. From 2018, the (Pty) Ltd. acquires KSB sale is part of an initiative companies 2017” according company can trade under ­Zambia Limited. Based in to streamline the Group’s to a study commissioned the name of KSB SE & Co. Kitwe, the company supplies structure. by Deutschland Test and the KGaA and will be led by a pumping equipment for the ­Focus Money business maga­ separate management com­ mining industry and water NEW PRESSURE zine. The study evaluated the pany. applications. BOOSTER SYSTEM training quality of the 5,000 KSB showcases its new range largest employers in a range of fully automatic pressure of industries. booster systems, KSB Delta Compact, at the ISH trade fair. The energy-­efficient sys­ tems are designed for water supply applications in resi­ dential buildings, trade and AWARD BEREAVEMENT industry. They ensure con­ KSB’s Business Innovation Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth dies stant pressure even with Lab is crowned “Newcomer at the age of 92 on 31 Janu­ fluctuating water consump­ NEW FACTORY of the Year 2017” by the ary; many employees mourn tion. After just ten months of con­ Capital business magazine. his loss. A descendant of the struction work, KSB opens a KSB specialists, external Klein family, KSB’s founders, modern factory in Shirwal, ­experts and students have Dr. Kühborth occupied vari­ India, for producing pumps been developing new busi­ ous positions at KSB, playing destined for power plants. ness models at the think a central role in the compa­ Representing an investment tank since the beginning of ny’s history for around 50 of 40 million euros, the the year. Their mission is years. building fulfils high stand­ to facilitate KSB’s digital ards with regard to energy transformation. efficiency and environmental protection. It also provides the necessary space for modernising and expanding pump production. India is one of a group of countries with an underdeveloped ­energy supply infrastructure. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 19 A L ook Back Q3 Q4 ONLINE ACCEPTANCE NEW MEMBERS TESTING FOR PUMPS OF THE BOARD OF KSB pioneers a world first MANAGEMENT by offering online accept­ Dr. Stephan Timmermann ance testing in Halle, Pegnitz joins the company as the and Shanghai. While in the Chairman of the Board of WASTE WATER PUMPS past customers had to attend DIGITALISATION Management. Over the KSB is awarded the contract acceptance testing on site, October sees more than course of the year, the Super­ to supply the pumping equip­ they can now remotely mon­ 2,500 KSB employees world­ visory Board has made four ment for a large waste water itor the process in real time, wide start working with the new appointments to the treatment plant in ­Qatar. The saving them travel time and new Cloud for Customer company’s executive man­ plant is being built approx­ costs. (C4C) system to manage agement body: Dr. Matthias imately 50 km north of their customer data and Schmitz (Finance), Ralf the capital city, Doha. After ­respond more quickly to ­Kannefass (Sales and Service), it has been commissioned, customers’ needs. Sales and Dr. Stephan Bross (Technol­ the plant will treat around Service staff can access the ogy) and the new Chairman 56,000 cubic metres of waste information on their mobile of the Board of Management. water every day. devices any time, anywhere. FORCES OF NATURE A hurricane, earthquakes NEW BUTTERFLY VALVES and heavy storms in August The new APORIS double-­ and September impact busi­ offset butterfly valve with ness operations at several of elastomer sealing element our smaller facilities in Texas, extends KSB’s product range. Mexico City and Zarautz in This valve is used for appli­ PROTOTYPE Spain. Emergency plans are cations where customers PUMP TEST STAND KSB completes the prototype initiated, highlighting the ef­ need to transport water A new pump test stand for for a compact, high-efficiency fectiveness of alternative through pipelines under high standard pumps is commis­ motor. By integrating the work processes. pressures over long distances. sioned in Frankenthal capa­ frequency inverter into the ble of testing approximately motor, developers have been PUMPS FOR MEDINA 3,000 pumps a year. Testing able to reduce the unit KSB supplies more than 100 times are reduced by a third. volume by over 25 percent pumps for a district cooling compared with the tradition­ system designed to handle al design. the air-conditioning of new hotel complexes which are being built in the Saudi Ara­ bian pilgrimage city of Medina. The pumps are ex­ clusively equipped with mechanical seals manufac­ tured by KSB. 20 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMBINED SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL REPORT The term “sustainability” is commonly used in a variety of By signing the UN Global Compact in 2010, we committed ways. At KSB, we define sustainability as aligning our busi­ ourselves to aligning our business activities with ten uni­ ness with environmental, social and economic values. As versal principles. But it is not only our managers and em­ well as responsible use of natural resources and the environ­ ployees who endorse the principles of the Global Compact ment, it includes our responsibility towards our employees – our suppliers and business partners also share these com­ and our commitment to society. We present these issues in mitments. We ask our strategically most important business a separate combined non-financial report pursuant to sec­ partners whether and to what extent they use these or tions 315b and 315c in conjunction with sections 289c to comparable standards as a source of orientation. 289e of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commer­ cial Code]. The report fulfils the requirements of the CSR KSB ’s sustainability principles are binding for all locations Directive Implementation Act [CSR-Richtlinie-­Umsetzungs­ and companies of the KSB Group. These principles are set gesetz] and combines the statement at company level with forth in our sustainability policy which applies to the entire the Group statement outside of the management report. Group. Our progress in these areas is regularly reviewed by a committee. Group management also receives a compli­ The concepts outlined here apply to both the Group and to ance report twice a year as well as an annual review of KSB AG (on 17 January 2018 the conversion into the new management issues relating to quality, the environment and legal form KSB SE & Co. KGaA took legal effect); any in­ occupational health and safety. stances where this is not the case are duly indicated. All information in the non-financial report relates to the former KSB operates a globally integrated management system in KSB AG in 2017. References to information not included order to fulfil the same high standards worldwide with re­ in the group management report and any captions in this gard to quality, risk, environment, occupational health and section represent supplementary information and are not safety, and sustainability. The management system is pro­ part of the separate non-financial report. Pricewaterhouse­ cess-oriented and complies with the requirements of the in­ Coopers GmbH, Mannheim, performed a limited assurance ternational ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and engagement on the information in this report in accordance ISO 26000 standards as well as the UN Global Compact. with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and issued an independent as­ It governs the organisational processes and workflows, surance report. responsibilities, procedures and processes at Group level and at our individual locations. The concepts and activities outlined in this report follow the principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-­ corruption. In accordance with our business model, we aim to supply Percentage of renewable energy customers worldwide with high-quality pumps and valves, in our power consumption: as well as related support services. The vast majority of our products are developed in-house and are manufactured in factories on four continents. Our products are sold via our own sales organisation, supported by dealer networks 33.3% composed of selected partners. KSB’s business model is pre­ (KSB AG: 51.0 %) sented in our group management report on page 56. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 21 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity Key sustainability topics for KSB Environment Society Business Very high Respecting human rights Resource efficiency Equal opportunities Energy-efficient products Emissions Relevance for stakeholders Compliance Training Sustainability in the supply chain Product reliability Social responsibility Occupational health and safety High Very high Relevance for KSB We continually assess the requirements and expectations of ing the environment, for example, by saving energy or the various stakeholders with regard to our company. through their use in waste water treatment applications. In 2016, we carried out an analysis of this for the first time in order to identify the key sustainability topics for KSB. KSB ’s corporate responsibility also includes our commit­ Against the background of the new requirements defined in ment to society. In this section we report on our social the HGB for non-financial reporting, the results were engagement, including activities which do not have a direct evaluated by the relevant specialist departments and our sus­ or material impact on our business success. tainability committee together with Group management in 2017. This enabled us to identify aspects and factors nec­ KSB does not see any material risks, as assessed based on essary for understanding the development and perfor­ the net evaluation method, associated with our own business mance of the business and the position of the company as or the business relations of the company, its products and well as the impact of our activities on the following issues: services which have or could have a serious negative impact on non-financial aspects, like the environment, anti-cor­ Environment (resource efficiency, manufacturing of energy-­ ruption, human rights, employee concerns and social issues. efficient products, emissions and product safety) All other risks with an impact on our business activities Combating corruption and bribery (compliance) are described in the group management report from page 75. Respecting human rights (sustainability in the supply chain) The non-financial report – unless otherwise stated – encom­ Employee concerns (training and development, equal passes 28 key companies within the KSB Group. We have ­opportunities, occupational health and safety) chosen these companies due to their impact in terms of as­ pects such as energy consumption and the percentage of These issues are directly related to our manufacturing activ­ employees involved. The 28 Group companies include all ities, our products, our business partners and our employ­ consolidated subsidiaries with production plants and two ees. Our products also directly contribute towards protect­ service companies with energy-intensive workshops. 22 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 Social commitment: In 2017, KSB supported an aid project to repair well pumps in Ivory Coast (large image), improving the drinking water supply for almost 2,000 Ivorians. Alongside measures to secure water supply, educational initiatives are central to KSB’s social commitment. To spark an interest in technology and science among young people, KSB regularly invites children and youngsters to its factories (small image) and supports projects run by the Wissensfabrik – Unter­ nehmen für Deutschland e.V. [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany] initiative. Financial aid: In India, KSB is regularly engaged in initiatives around its ­l ocations. These benefit socially disadvantaged children, the disabled, the ­e lderly and the sick (upper image). As well as providing financial support, we also support facilities and organisations by donating technical equipment. In 2017, we financed multiple projects in Asia for supplying school facilities with water. In Nepal (image on the left), this enabled two schools in Dakshinkali and Bhaktapur to solve problems with water supply and sanitary facilities. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 23 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity Energy consumption Total KSB AG Europe*** Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Total energy consumption* 273,750 MWh 94,868 MWh 141,900 MWh 38,258 MWh 80,432 MWh 13,160 MWh Total electricity** 156,407 MWh 37,260 MWh 58,296 MWh 33,708 MWh 53,202 MWh 11,200 MWh Electricity from renewables 52,064 MWh 18,989 MWh 23,629 MWh 5,712 MWh 19,908 MWh 2,815 MWh CO ² emissions 97,248 t 22,072 t 31,042 t 29,916 t 28,871 t 7,418 t * Electricity, gas, fuel oil, district heating, wood, etc. ** Total deviates due to rounding *** Including KSB AG ENVIRONMENT order to minimise the need to travel for our employees As a manufacturing company, we strive to minimise our and to keep the associated costs and impact on the environ­ impact on the environment and to reduce energy consump­ ment as low as possible. tion as far as possible. By pursuing this approach, we help to conserve natural resources and also increase the econom­ We regularly record our energy consumption and CO² ic efficiency of our products in times of rising raw material emissions so we can analyse this data. In the year under prices. Furthermore, we avoid economic and legal risks review, our energy consumption was 273,750 megawatt which could potentially result from environmental damage hours (KSB AG: 94,868 megawatt hours). With regard to and failure to comply with laws and regulations. energy consumption, 33.3 % (KSB AG: 51.0 %) of our energy came from renewable sources. We want to increase KSB follows the internationally recognised ISO 14001 this percentage. In accordance with Scope 1 and Scope 2 environmental management system to ensure we deal respon­ of the GHG protocol , we calculated CO² emissions of sibly with the natural environment. To date, we have es­ 97,248 tonnes (KSB AG: 22,072 tonnes). tablished the environmental management system at 37 pro­ duction and assembly locations (KSB AG: 3 locations), Waste is produced during the manufacturing and transport covering 90 percent of our production operations. As part of industrial products. KSB strives to keep waste levels of an evaluation process, we ask our strategically most as low as possible, returning materials to the material cycle important suppliers whether they comply with the require­ wherever possible. For example, we collect paper and ments of applicable national or international environmen­metal which is then sent for recycling. tal management standards. In 2017, we wrote to 1,058 of these suppliers, 537 of which responded. The proportion We are reducing the volume of hazardous substances by of these suppliers using recognised environmental standards progressively modernising our existing plants. If we discover as a source of orientation was 45 %. any environmental pollution at our locations, we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary clean-up In order to reduce energy consumption and CO² emissions, work. In 2017, these provisions amounted to € 775,000 we conduct regular energy audits at our European loca­ for KSB AG. tions. The resulting measures include the energy-efficient refurbishment of our buildings and foundries. To help cut In order to minimise the impact of our business activities electricity consumption, for example, we use high-efficiency on the environment, we ensure that our manufacturing pro­ lights and sensor-controlled lighting. We are also contin­ cesses are as environmentally friendly as possible. We go ually expanding our video conference system worldwide in even further than this by aiming to produce products that 24 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 ceeds the requirements of the international quality manage­ ment standard. Our internal certification stands for quali­­Number of employees trained in ty, short delivery times, professional support services and compliance topics: optimum manufacturing processes. 5,240 COMBATING CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY (COMPLIANCE) Our customers and business partners expect KSB to conduct business with integrity. That is why compliance with legal only require a small amount of electricity during their regulations and Group-wide directives is part of our core service life and that contribute towards preserving our en­ values. The actions of a single individual can result in a vironment. permanent loss of trust in our company and seriously com­ promise our reputation. Our energy-efficient products help reduce the amount of energy consumed by our customers. Our specialists adopt To support employee compliance, we have developed a an integrated approach to optimising our customers’ binding compliance management system. It ensures that plants, analysing the entire hydraulic system and the com­ legal requirements and internal KSB rules are adhered to, plete life cycle of the plant. This enables us to ensure that securing the success of our business in the long term. The all system components are perfectly matched. compliance system is designed to ensure that KSB and its employees always act in line with applicable laws and Our declared goal is continual growth in the area of energy-­ direc­tives. efficient products. The benefits are three-fold: reducing the environmental impact caused by our customers, increasing Group management is responsible for organising compliance, our sales revenue and ensuring the future viability of our monitored by the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. company. Digital transformation also plays a key role by A Group Compliance Officer is responsible for compliance helping us to identify potential energy savings in our cus­ management and reports to Group management on rele­ tomers’ plants. In the year under review, we set up a Business vant topics every six months. Support is provided by a Group Innovation Lab where we develop new business models Compliance Committee, consisting of top-level managers to be implemented as part of the process of progressive from the company. digitalisation. In the year under review, we revised our Compliance Manual If products fail to meet a sufficient standard of quality, this which describes structures and processes to ensure com­ could result in accidents and environmental pollution. We pliant conduct. It also sets out responsibilities and compli­ therefore attach great importance to the safety of our prod­ ance instruments. ucts. During the manufacturing process, we comply with recognised standards such as CE and established quality A core element of our compliance system is the KSB Code management systems. We are therefore able to design pro­ of Conduct which applies across the entire Group. It de­ cesses such that systematic errors during product manufac­ scribes the key legal and business policy principles, providing turing can be avoided. Furthermore, we introduced an in­ our employees with guidance for their actions. The Code ternal certification process: “Made by KSB”. It ensures an also sets forth the corporate values which govern our con­ equally high standard of quality at 13 locations which ex­ duct in our daily work: honesty, responsibility, profession­ CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 25 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity alism, trust and appreciation. On this basis, we have for­ budsperson received one notification of suspected compli­ mulated and communicated specific principles and rules of ance violation. We were also notified of another suspected conduct. instance via an e-mail contact form. When the compliance organisation receives relevant information, the necessary In order to avoid risks resulting from a loss of reputation steps and measures for clarifying the situation are initiated and legal repercussions, KSB introduced two binding Cor­ following a precisely specified procedure. KSB does not tol­ porate Directives, one covering compliance with cartel / erate any violations of compliance by its employees. If inves­ anti-­trust law and one dealing with the prevention of cor­ tigations reveal sufficient evidence of a violation, this will ruption. Both of these directives help to prevent potential have consequences for the individual concerned. Depending violations. Employees receive appropriate training in rec­ on the severity, sanctions range from a disciplinary warn­ognising potential risks and receive practical guidance on ing to immediate termination of employment; law enforce­ impeccable conduct. ment agencies may also be involved. Our goal is to train all relevant employees in cartel / anti-­ RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS trust law and the prevention of corruption. Using a global matrix of requirements, we ensure that all personnel with By signing the UN Global Compact (see page 20), KSB customer or supplier contact are familiarised with these committed itself to respecting and supporting the protection topics. Currently, 5,240 employees across the Group have of international human rights. We have also pledged not received this training. We carry out this training at three-year to indirectly tolerate violations of human rights, for example intervals, with interim demand being met via additional when it comes to selecting our suppliers. As a company, training sessions every six months. we comply with the conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Basic conduct requirements within In the event that employees become aware of violations or the workforce are governed by the KSB Code of Conduct. are unsure whether their actions are compliant, they refer We are aware that human rights infringements are not the matter to the compliance organisation, and specifically only morally unacceptable, they can also damage a com­ to the designated Compliance Officer. If necessary, reports pany’s reputation and thus result in financial losses. will be treated anonymously. In addition, any circumstances that give rise to legal or anti-trust concerns can be reported KSB is therefore committed to combating all forms of forced directly to an independent ombudsperson, who can process and child labour. We do not tolerate any discrimination potential cases without naming informants. If reliable evi­ in our work environment on the basis of individual charac­ dence is presented, then this is pursued. In 2017, the om­ teristics such as age, race, religion, appearance, gender, sexual orientation, disability or marital status. Furthermore, we respect the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in our companies. We also observe 96 government sanctions such as embargoes and issue inter­nal export control directives. Social projects actively supported by In order to identify and avoid risks in the supply chain, we KSB or financially supported with at practice active supplier management. For every order we place, the supplier declares that it complies with the rules in least EUR 5,000 our Code of Conduct’, which corresponds with the human rights principles defined in the UN Global Compact. This 26 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 enables us to make sure we avoid purchasing raw materials expert engineers, securing their professional development from areas of conflict where violations of human rights may and creating a long-term bond between them and KSB. have been involved in their production. We do not cooper­Potential applicants and colleagues should perceive us as an ­ate with companies that are known to have committed hu­ attractive employer. We foster and develop our own talent man rights violations. to prepare them for high-level specialist and leadership posi­ tions, as well as pursuing structured succession planning. In 2017, we wrote to 1,058 of our strategically most impor­ tant suppliers asking whether they implement measures to A three-stage scheme enables us to systematically expand our counteract human rights violations. Of the 537 companies employees’ skill sets. It differentiates between company-­ that replied, 445 confirmed such measures are implemented. wide, departmental and individual professional development measures. Annual performance evaluation interviews be­ Our employees can contact the compliance organisation or tween managers and staff determine what is required. We an ombudsperson regarding human rights issues, following offer task-oriented training measures covering technology, the same procedure as for suspected compliance violations business, information technology and communication. In (see page 25). 2017, each member of our staff completed an average of 17.6 hours of professional development activities (KSB AG: 11.9). Regional differences (see chart below) emerge prin­ EMPLOYEE CONCERNS cipally due to uneven qualification levels among new em­ Our company is defined by the people within it. Their com­ ployees, meaning that more specialised training is required mitment, skills and knowledge ultimately decide our eco­ in some of our companies. nomic success. KSB currently employs more than 15,000 staff. In order to achieve sustainable success, we continue Our range of training options seeks to support our staff to require well qualified experts. A lack of specialist person­ throughout their professional life. The goal is to strengthen nel would harm KSB’s economic future. our colleagues’ capacity for self-directed learning, and we intend to initiate a corresponding expansion of the training In order to stand our ground in the intense competition for we offer over the next few years. Our training is delivered top talent, we must succeed in recruiting highly qualified using the latest learning techniques including e-learning and Age structure Age Total KSB AG Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Under 25 8% 12 % 9% 6% 8% 6% 26 – 39 35 % 28 % 29 % 39 % 38 % 52 % 40 – 54 40 % 36 % 40 % 47 % 36 % 30 % Over 55 17 % 23 % 22 % 9% 17 % 13 % As figures have been rounded, the total may deviate from 100. * Including KSB AG Training hours Total KSB AG Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Hours per employee 17.6 11.9 14 16 10 65 * Including KSB AG CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 27 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity Health and family: Possibilities for reconciling the commitments of work and family are highly valued by many KSB staff. Family days like the one held at the Halle factory in 2017 allow a glimpse behind the scenes of working life at KSB. At the same time, children get the chance to try out their craft work skills (large image). In implementing its company health management system, KSB seeks not only to protect its employees against occupational injuries and diseases but also to provide individualised preventive healthcare. At the Frankenthal location, company doctor Parvin Shahidi Asl (small image) looks after employees’ health. Well qualified staff: Innovative companies need specialist staff. Vocational training at KSB means practical learning (image on the left). A wide range of professional development opportunities for enhancing and expanding new skills are available to employees. These are delivered using the latest learning techniques including e-learning and webinars (image on the right). 28 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2017 webinars. We also value the potential of learning from valuable knowledge within the company across different one another and foster the establishment of communities age groups. which facilitate the direct exchange of knowledge and ex­ perience. KSB is committed to diversity and equal opportunities inter­ nationally. The binding human resources principles we In order to meet demand for specialist staff, we are contin­ updated in the year under review harmonise with the con­ ually engaged in training young talent. Our German loca­ ventions of the ILO and apply to all KSB companies. tions participate in the country’s dual vocational education In keeping with these principles, when recruiting we focus system. In the year under review, we trained a total of 229 solely on the professional requirements of the role to be young people to take on a role in our company. 2017 saw filled and the individual performance and potential of the us invest around EUR 6.6 million in vocational training. candidate. Clear responsibilities have been established to ensure this. Management works to ensure that the principles KSB offers attractive prospects for dedicated young people. of equal opportunities and diversity are realised in com­ Promising talent can benefit from a career springboard pany practice. Our human resources staff communicate these we provide via vocational training, work placements and principles within the Group and adapt them where re­ student projects. quired. They also foster an awareness of this important topic and offers corresponding training and advice. Those who take up vocational training or dual work / degree programmes with KSB experience practical learning. We have no doubt that diversity improves performance Alongside specialist skills, we set great store by the sense within our company. So we want to see leadership positions of responsibility exercised by our trainee staff. They are, filled by diverse personalities, all giving their best for for example, also involved in social and ecological projects KSB . As well as recruiting more non-German candidates around their locations. for management roles, we have set ourselves the goal of increasing the number of women in leadership positions. Many Western countries are experiencing ageing popula­ We wish to be seen as a fair company and an attractive tions, and companies are affected by this demographic employer for women with all kinds of qualifications. Cur­ shift. We thus monitor the age profiles of our staff in dif­ rently, the proportion of female managers is 11 %. In ferent regions (see chart on page 26) so that we can take terms of our workforce as a whole, women make up 15 %. timely action in ensuring we achieve the right balance in In order to support our female staff, we are strengthening each company, for example, by recruiting younger trainees the measures taken by KSB to reconcile the commitments of in sufficient numbers. It is then possible for us to distribute family and work. Such measures include offering child­ Workforce by gender Total KSB AG Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Male employees 85 % 84 % 83 % 89 % 87 % 87 % Female employees 15 % 16 % 17 % 11 % 13 % 13 % Male managers 89 % 92 % 89 % 90 % 88 % 90 % Female managers 11 % 8% 11 % 10 % 12 % 10 % * Including KSB AG CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 29 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity care during the school holidays. We also offer advice on results revealed opportunities for improvements. These caring for family members, and both male and female were translated into measures which we promptly started staff can benefit from our flexible working time models. to implement. We aim to reduce the risk of occupational accidents to avoid SOCIETY injuries to staff and limit periods of leave, with a focus on measures implemented in production areas. Appropriate An awareness of our social responsibility motivates us training sessions, instruction and further preventive meas­ to get involved in social initiatives. As a successful company, ures are implemented regularly. In the year under review, KSB is committed to sustainable development and well 35 of our manufacturing and assembly plants (including functioning cooperation within our society. With this goal in all of KSB AG’s factories) were certified according to the mind, and in line with our donation directive, we support OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management organisations and projects dedicated to the education, social system. This represents 85 % of our locations. The require­ support and protection of children and young people. We ments for prevention set out in the standard serve to increase are also committed to supporting the disadvantaged. In the levels of occupational health and safety. event of disasters we provide assistance for both people and organisations. In the year under review, we actively However, health awareness at work is an important topic participated in or provided financial support of at least also at our administrative departments. We therefore offer EUR 5,000 to a total of 96 social projects. training including an annual e-learning course on safety in the office. Education for young people is a core element of our com­ mitment to social issues. It is important for us that young Investment in the health and well-being of our staff is also people develop their skills early enough to then pursue a an investment in our own successful future. KSB thus career that offers the right fit for their talents and capabili­ takes a holistic approach to actively implementing its com­ ties. For this reason we joined other companies to found pany health management system. the initiative Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutsch­land e.V. [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany]. This sees us fulfilling not only the legal requirements of the company health service, but also offering voluntary health­ The provision of financial support for aid projects has a care services such as screening for skin cancer, flu vaccina­ long tradition at KSB. This includes ongoing support for tions and events relating to healthy eating and exercise. social developments in the areas around our locations. We Staff aged over 50 are additionally offered an annual pre­ donate regularly to projects seeking to supply people ventive medical check-up covering their cardiovascular with clean drinking water, for which we also provide nonsystem, metabolism and musculoskeletal system. If necessary, cash support such as pumps. further tests or treatment are recommended. More information on our social commitment is available at KSB greatly values the active engagement of its employees www.ksb.com/csr in the development of the company and its work processes. In 2016 we undertook a global survey of around 11,000 members of staff from the Group companies with the high­ est sales revenues. Respondents offered their opinions on their company, working environment and engagement. The 30 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N D I G I TA L T R A N S F O R M AT I O N DIGITAL G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT TRANSFORMATION 32 Overview 34 KSB Cloud 38 MyFlow Drive C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 42 Digital Life Cycle Log 46 Additive Manufacturing 50 Reverse Engineering G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 32 Digital Transformation We seek to harness the potential of ­digitalisation to achieve high levels of e­ fficiency, performance and fault-free operation. KSB has developed a bold transformation strategy in three key areas. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 33 Products and services In order to offer user-friendly products and efficient support services, we work together with our customers to establish their needs from technical data to operation. This allows us to pinpoint Internal processes where digitalisation can unlock new Implementing the digital transformation opportunities and develop tailored solu­­ helps make our processes quicker, more tions offering added value. agile, and thus more effective. KSB’s long-­ term goal is to secure a seamless flow of information between different media: All product data – from development to configuration, production and shipping – should be available at any time and in any location. Technologies We are looking to combine our classic engineering expertise with know-how in the digital realm. KSB is therefore investing in developing its own cloud systems, researching materials for 3D printing and building digital infrastructure. This will form a basis from which to offer innovative solutions for the entire product life cycle. 34 In the future, every smart pump will be connected to the KSB Cloud. A digital copy is created based on all of its data. This “digital twin” enables us to react ahead of time or implement defined measures as soon as operating data indicates that a critical point has been reached. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 35 KS B Cloud The KSB Cloud: We are networking our products, processes and services with each other. Reliability, safety and transparency remain central throughout this process. The first digital twins of KSB’s smart pumps went live on our network at the beginning of 2018. They replicate the exact conditions of the monitored pump sets. For our customers, this is a step forward in the efficiency and reliability of systems operation. In the future, the KSB Cloud will provide the data basis for all accounting, production and order-handling processes, including simplified spare parts supply. 36 “We are harnessing the ­benefits of digitalisation for our customers. In 2018 we will launch to market 2017 saw KSB found a Business Innovation Lab in Mannheim with the aim of an innovative pump monideveloping new digital business models The idea of combining a start-up environment in the university town with KSB’s wealth of experience is paying off: Two new developments have already toring unit been implemented – one of them a cloud-based monitoring unit. networked to the cloud.” Dr. Thomas Paulus Dr. Thomas Paulus, Head of Digital Transformation, in conversation with Miriam Rischer, KSB Guard project manager CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 37 KS B Cloud 38 Today, almost 70 percent of all standardised pumps operate at a constant motor speed. The MyFlow Drive allows “virtual impeller trimming” in that a fixed speed pump can be adjusted to the required operating point. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 39 MyFlow D rive MyFlow Drive: A system’s operating conditions often differ substantially from the ­parameters originally planned. As a result, over-sized pump sets are not uncommon. In the past, rectifying the situation required operators to make costly changes to their hardware. The new Industry 4.0-compatible MyFlow Drive allows a fixed motor speed to be set in line with individual requirements. This provides users with greater planning ­reliability as the pump’s flow rate can be ­in­creased or decreased quickly and easily. ­Another plus point: As the minimum frequency inverter modulates the supply voltage of the IE5 synchronous reluctance motor , the drive can also be operated on almost any power grid worldwide. 40 “Our MyFlow Drive is a revo­ lution in pump technology. In the past, changes in system conditions meant the impeller had to be trimmed mechanically. MyFlow Drive is an innovation from KSB’s in-house research Today, the adjustment and development teams. They work on the automation of products, processes and services to ensure these are as efficient as possible and offer sustainable reliability. is achieved virtually.” Josephine Vega Völk Josephine Vega Völk and Dr. Jochen Schaab played a key role in developing KSB’s MyFlow technology. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 41 MyFlow D rive 42 Pumps and their digital life cycle logs are connected via QR codes. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 43 D igita l Life Cycle Log Digital life cycle logs: Although they may look similar from the outside, pumps can differ from one another hugely in terms of their hydraulic design. We therefore use digital life cycle logs to document the data of each in­dividual pump. These include type series specification and production history, equipment, maintenance information and inspection or test reports. The log is quickly accessible to our on-site technical staff. It helps with maintenance measures and supports process analysis and optimisation during operation. In the long term, this can be considered a bridging technology. As our pumps remain in operation for years and often decades, it will be some time before all of our active pump sets are “smart”. Until this point, QR codes or chips will connect older pump models with their digital logs. 44 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 45 D igita l Life Cycle Log “The digital life cycle log gives me on-site access to everything I need to know about the pump in front of me. This means I can see far more quickly where Digitalisation helps us provide ­efficient service and develop maintenance is needed or new maintenance models which specifically target the needs of our customers. The digital life cycle log reduces the documen­ tation workload for system operators and service engineers. optimisation possible.” Markus Nowak, engineer for system optimisation, works all over the world for KSB. 46 Laser melting simplifies the production of complex components. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 47 A dditive Ma nufa cturing Additive manufacturing: Complex geometrical shapes such as hollow bodies or lattice structures represent the limits of feasibility for classic casting processes. Conventional methods may also make producing components quickly or in small quantities uneconomical. KSB has thus been investing in 3D printing technology for some years. In this innovative process, a laser controlled via a data set melts metal powder onto a platform, creating components layer by layer. It takes specialised know-how and years of experience with materials to ensure that these “printouts” offer the same quality as traditionally cast components. Drawing on this expertise, the technology offers completely new design and manufacturing options. 48 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 49 A dditive Ma nufa cturing “I am fascinated by the design possibilities offered by this new technology. Laser melting allows us to produce components which would be impossible In order to test and further refine materials and processes, KSB has to create using conventional set up a centre for additive manufacturing in Pegnitz. Here, several laser melting systems are already in operation. processes.” Marco Linhardt, development engineer for additive manufacturing in Pegnitz 50 In order to exactly reproduce a pump impeller, KSB scans the original. Damaged areas can then be “repaired” virtually using CAD reconstruction. If requested by the customer, the model can be subjected to a digital flow simulation test using CFD before the impeller is manufactured. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 51 Re ve rse E ngine e ring Reverse engineering: Scanning in three dimensions, digitisation, additive manufacturing: This is the new way to reconstruct pump and valve components. When customers need replacement components, quick action is required to minimise their systems’ downtime. However, searching for a replacement part can prove challenging. This is particularly the case if neither the part nor the old casting mould are available any longer, or when the delivery period would be too long. A solution is on hand with reverse engineering from KSB. Service specialists scan the original and can ­virtually reconstruct damaged areas or even partially destroyed components. Depending on the size, they can then print out the component directly or produce a new casting mould. Not only does this technology make replacement parts available quickly, the quality often even exceeds that of the original. 52 “Our reverse engineering ensures that the customer gets the replacement part KSB’s US-American subsidiary Standard Alloys is a specialist in quickly, and spare parts management for pumps and compressors. The company has been refining reverse that its quality engineering technology for many years. The process of accurately is at least as good as the reproducing components is in no way restricted to the company’s own products – it can also be applied to products from manufacturers no longer active on the ­market. original.” Richard Martinez Richard Martinez (right), Managing Director of KSB subsidiary Standard Alloys, in conversation with Rory Novich CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 53 Re ve rse E ngine e ring 54 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N GROUP MANAGEMENT G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT REPORT 56 Basic Principles of the Group 56 Group Business Model 58 Control System C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 58 Research and Development 59 Economic Review 59 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 60 Business Development and Results of Operations 64 Financial Position and Net Assets 68 Summary of the Performance in the Financial Year 68 Dependent Company Report 69 Report on Expected Developments 72 Opportunities and Risks Report 84 Acquisition-related Disclosures 86 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d of the HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f of the HGB) 87 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Sections 315b, 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e of the HGB) 88 Remuneration of the Board of Management G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 56 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE GROUP tured according to responsibilities for product groups, corpoGROUP BUSINESS MODEL rate functions and regions. The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related All organisational units in the KSB Group act with the aim of systems. We also provide a wide range of service offerings to ensuring sustainable, profitable growth that will secure both users of these products. KSB’s financial independence and its mediumand long-term future. Management is monitored by a Supervisory Board KSB SE & Co. KGaA (until 17 January 2018: KSB Aktien­ consisting of twelve members. The Annual General Meeting gesellschaft), Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, as the parent comof shareholders appoints six members of the Supervisory pany, directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies Board, with the remaining six being delegated by the employbelonging to the Group. Besides it, 9 domestic and 73 foreign ees under the terms of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German companies are fully consolidated; 6 other companies are Co-determination Act]. ­accounted for under the equity method. KSB is currently represented in over 40 countries with its own subsidiaries. The KSB Group organises its business activities in three segments based on product groups: Pumps, Valves and Service. As well as KSB SE & Co. KGaA itself, the companies in the The Pumps segment covers singleand multistage pumps, and KSB Group with the highest sales revenue are associated control and drive systems. Applications are industry (manufacturing, chemical / petrochemical, transport), energy KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France supply, water transport and waste water treatment, construcKSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China tion / building services and the hydraulic transport of solids KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India in mining. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuaKSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany tors and control systems. The applications for these products KSB BRASIL LTDA., Várzea Paulista (Brazil) are essentially identical to those for pumps. The Service segKSB Italia S.p.A., Milan, Italy ment covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related Our basic business model has not changed during the year systems and valves for all these applications, as well as moduunder review. External economic and political changes, howlar service concepts and system analyses for complete systems. ever, have had a partial effect on our business. These are – where relevant and material to KSB – described in the followAfter the reporting period, KSB Aktiengesellschaft changed its ing sections. legal form to that of an SE & Co. KGaA by entry in the ­Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] on 17 January ORGANISATION, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL 2018. The partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesell­ In the year under review, the Board of Management of KSB schaft auf Aktien – KGaA] is a common legal form in Germany Aktiengesellschaft managed and controlled the KSB Group. for companies with a familyand foundation-dominated This body formed of at least two persons under the Articles ownership structure. The Annual General Meeting of KSB AG of Association was assisted in operational decisions by a adopted a resolution on 10 May 2017 on the announced management team of senior executives. Managers and emchange in the legal form of the company. The general partner ployees implemented the strategy and instructions of the is KSB Management SE, a European public limited company. Board of Management within an organisation that is strucThe shares in this company are wholly owned (100 %) by CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 57 Ba sic Pri n c i pl e s o f th e Gro u p Group B u si n e ss Mo de l Bodies / Structure Limited partners General partner KSB shareholders KSB Management SE manages Annual General Meeting KSB SE & Co. KGaA Supervisory Board monitors The former KSB Aktiengesellschaft is now managed in the legal form of a partnership limited by shares [ Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA]. Management is the responsibility of KSB Management SE, the individually liable general partner. The responsibilities of the bodies are governed by law and the Articles of Associations. This is the basis for efficient corporate governance, which contributes to sustainable corporate growth. Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH, a subsidiary of the non-­ The second-largest market for KSB products is currently the profit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation] and the Kühborth-Stif­ Region Asia / Pacific, followed by the Region Americas and tung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. KSB SE & Co. KGaA the Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest and thus the KSB Group are managed via KSB Management manufacturing plants are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. SE, which has four Managing Directors and a five-member Administrative Board. KSB manufactures products and components in a total of 16 countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies MARKETS AND LOCATIONS or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for around the Group companies serve customers in industry including two thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as valves, the chemical and petrochemical industries, customers in the are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, in energy and construction / building services sectors, transport some cases, distributed via dealers. The same applies to conequipment manufacturers and operators (e.g. ships, rail vehitrol and monitoring systems, and to package units with pumps cles), water and waste water utilities, and mining companies. and valves. Once again in 2017, the top-selling markets for our products were the industrial and energy supply sectors. The best developed sales market for these products is Europe, where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in In order to be able to offer our products at favourable prices, ­Germany and France. The main plant of the present KSB SE we combine the Group’s purchasing requirements and source & Co. KGaA in Frankenthal is its largest in Europe, ahead affordable suppliers around the world who meet our quality of the production sites in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxony-­ standards. The focus is currently upon Asian companies. We Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in France. are able to maintain our market position as one of the leading 58 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT pump and valve manufacturers through our good and longthese key indicators, we are guided on the one hand by determ relationships with our customers and suppliers. Our highly velopments in the market, and on the other by the performance trained and motivated employees as well as the high quality of our key competitors. of our products have also helped cement our reputation. We do not consult any non-financial performance indicators for controlling the Group and for making decisions regarding CONTROL SYSTEM management issues. Based upon our matrix organisation, we determine our key ­financial performance indicators as follows: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Management decisions are taken primarily on the basis of the Innovations are a fundamental pillar of our activities and are key indicators that are determined for the Pumps, Valves and part of the core elements of our strategy. We define them as Service segments: order intake, sales revenue and earnings besolutions that create added value for customers and translate fore interest and taxes (EBIT). In 2016, instead of the latter into new products, services or business models. control parameter, the operating earnings (EBIT excluding the effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance With our pumps and valves, we serve a broad range of tech­ with IAS 11) were relevant. Following a change in internal nical applications. The integration of hydraulic and electronic reporting, the sales revenue and effects on earnings from systems is a focus of our activities. As many of our products construction contracts under IAS 11 have been reported at come into contact with fluids that are more or less corrosive segment level since January 2017. As a result, sales revenue or abrasive, materials research is another key area of our and EBIT including these effects were reported to Management ­developers’ work. and decisions taken on this basis in the reporting year under review. In these activities, we are primarily drawing on our strong ­research and development competencies in Europe and For further information on these key indicators see the Notes ­India. In addition, we cooperate with external institutes and to the Consolidated Financial Statements, section VIII. Segment research facilities. Overall, we spent around € 47 million on Reporting. R & D in the year under review. This equates to about 2 % of our sales revenue. For the control of the entire Group, we use the key indicators 47 of order intake, sales revenue, earnings before income taxes (EBT), pre-tax return on sales as well as the net financial position, and from the 2018 financial year onwards also the € earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). The pre-tax return on sales describes the ratio between the earnings before income taxes (EBT) and the sales revenue; net financial position is the balance of financial liabilities and interest-bearing million ­financial assets (current and non-current financial instruments, interest-bearing loans, cash and cash equivalents, and re­ Research and development ceivables from cash deposits). When specifying and evaluating expenses in 2017 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 59 Ba sic Pri n c i pl e s o f th e Gro u p Cont ro l S yste m Re searc h an d De v e l o pm e n t E con o m i c R e v i e w Macr o e c o n o m i c En v i ro n m e n t an d S e c to r Vi e w ECONOMIC REVIEW MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT RISING DEMAND IN KEY SALES INDUSTRIES AND SECTOR VIEW Thanks to the improved market conditions, companies caught up with measures to upgrade or expand their technical sysThe growth of the global economy accelerated in the reporting tems. In this context, plans to boost efficiency and improve year and at + 3.7 % developed slightly better than forecast plant reliability played a central role. There was a continued by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) (+ 3.4 %). We regutrend towards automation of fluid transport systems, which larly consider the forecast figures of the IMF in our annual we fit with pumps and valves. growth planning. The economic upswing was seen in nearly all countries important for the global economy in 2017 as In industry, which is a particularly important market for us, ­opposed to previous years. demand rose above all in the manufacturing sector, as well as in the chemical and petrochemical industries. In petrochemAmong the advanced economies, the euro zone countries ical companies, in particular, catch-up effects were the cause (+ 2.4 %) and the US (+ 2.3 %) made particularly good progress. of an increase in investments. Performance in our European home market continued to be supported by a weak euro, which buttressed the export inIn addition to industry, water and waste water management dustry, as well as by low interest rates. They facilitated the was our second sales focus. In this area, our sales staff faced ­financing of investments in industry and the construction seca market with a strong recovery in demand in the utilities sector, which also had a partial impact on our industry. The tor. Furthermore, the start of major water supply and waste ­German economy performed better than expected in this enviwater treatment projects in China and India resulted in correronment, with an increase in the gross domestic product of sponding contracts being awarded. 2.5 %. In this context, local industry production increased above average. As a result of the recovery of commodities prices, mining companies made investments to upgrade their plants that had The economy in emerging economies saw are more expanbeen shelved for some time. In North America, oil sands sionary trend than in the previous year. In this process, counmining picked up speed again. This is relevant for our business tries exporting commodities and energy sources benefited with slurry pumps from the US, which are used for the hyfrom tangible price increases. China and India, as the two key draulic transport of raw materials as well as residues. markets in Asia for KSB, showed a different performance. Whereas China continued its upswing and slightly exceeded Companies engaged in the liquefaction and transport of natuthe previous year’s growth rate at 6.8 %, in India the cash ral gas continued to largely refrain from investments due to ­reform and introduction of a national value-added tax pretheir overcapacities, although gas prices were also on the rise. vented a similar rise as in 2016. However, India’s economic This made selling our high-performance cryogenic butterfly growth remained at a high level at 6.7 %. In Brazil, where KSB valves more difficult. continues to be the leading pump supplier, demand for industrial goods rose gain after a three-year recession. Production In the energy industry, the trend towards exiting coal continin Russia also saw an upward trend, but the sanctions of ued. By contrast, operators of combined cycle power stations Western countries continued to weigh on economic perforbut also of nuclear power plants had a need for equipment mance. goods and support services. 60 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT World market of centrifugal pumps and valves BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Middle East /Africa 12.3% Based on the stronger investment activities of our customers, Asia /Pacific 38.5% our business position improved compared with the previous Europe 24.7% year. This was particularly true for industry and water and waste water management, our key sales markets in strategic terms. In addition, mining companies caught up on a larger Americas 24.5% scale with investments that had previously been deferred. We made the most of market opportunities via the global Source: KSB estimate (February 2018), European Industrial Forecasting KSB sales organisation, supported by our global manufacturing network, our service organisation and national dealership networks. In the construction industry, which benefited from the low ­interest rate level, demand for building services equipment ORDER INTAKE continued to rise. However, this was more pronounced in The volume of orders received by KSB increased by € 108.8 ­residential construction than in the construction of commermillion to € 2,265.3 million in the year under review. This cial and public buildings, where our products are chiefly 5 % increase corresponds to our expectation of a “marked ­employed. improvement” in order intake. It is mainly attributable to the development of our business in the water and waste water UPTURN IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING sector, in industry and in mining. However, we also posted After flat global mechanical engineering sales in 2016, the ­increases with products and services in the power plant busiOxford Economics research institute registered real growth ness and in service for building services equipment. Currency of 6 % again in 2017. Sales revenue in the European core exchange rate changes constituted – contrary to previous years countries of Germany, France and Italy rose moderately at – only a minor influencing factor at € – 7.3 million. around 2 to 3%, while growth in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and several Eastern European countries was stronger A regional focus of order intake was the Region Asia / Pacific by comparison. (+ 13.8 %). The orders received there made up about half of the growth. The companies in the Regions Europe and Americas In China sales revenue increased by 8 %, and in India by 9 % have also developed positively, with the percentage growth of despite weaker economic growth. In Latin America perforthe American companies (+ 9.0 %) being stronger than that of mance remained at a weak level at merely about 1 % after the companies in our European home market (+ 2.8 %). Order overcoming the recession in Brazil and Argentina. intake performance at KSB AG (now KSB SE & Co. KGaA) at + 3.8 % to € 780.0 million was above average; here, project The global sales revenue of German plants for the production orders placed by power stations and industrial plants were a of liquid pumps performed contrary to the upswing in memajor factor. The companies in the Region Middle East / Africa chanical engineering overall. They dropped by 0.6 % according posted a fall in order intake by 7.7 %, among other things to VDMA figures. At a plus of 2.3 %, industrial valves sales ­because some major customers placed their orders directly with revenue also fell short of the overall industry’s performance. European KSB companies. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 61 Econ o m i c R e v i e w Ma cr o e c o n o m i c En v i ro n m e n t an d S e c to r Vi e w Busin e ss De v e l o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s Pumps loading stations for the reasons outlined above. Our expectaAt € 1,473.6 million, the order intake in the pumps segment tion of a significant improvement materialised. outperformed the prior-year value by € 87.0 million, corresponding to an increase of 6.3 %, which is in line with our Service expectation expressed in the previous year. The pump busiOrder intake for support services rose by € 9.4 million to ness, which was intensified by sales initiatives and new prod€ 448.2 million. This slight increase of 2.1 % correlated with uct launches, benefited from the recovery in the industrial our forecast that growth in service would be weaker than market and the continued good performance of the water and that of pumps and valves. As expected, the sale of a French waste water business. In the field of waste water transport service company at the end of 2016 and the integration of and purification, our sales staff won over customers with an several service companies into larger units in the USA and enhanced, particularly reliable waste water pump series. France had an opposite effect. In addition, as many as three We also added new high-pressure and submersible borehole service sites in the south of the USA were affected by the impumps to our water engineering portfolio. In addition, the pact of the tropical hurricane Harvey in 2017. broadening of our range of mechanical seals manufactured in-­ house had a positive effect on order intake. We posted the strongest order intake overall in the water and waste water business as well as in the power plant sector. Rising commodity prices strengthened demand from mining, ­Energy providers in China and India, in particular, increasingly which we served above all with US slurry pumps. In this field, used our services. Service orders from mining and building at a 35.5 % increase, we posted the highest growth rate in services also rose, only orders from industry remained slightly the pumps segment. The focus was on replacement investments below the previous year’s level. by customers; only a few mine operators tackled expansion projects. The demand situation in the fossil-fuelled power plant We were particularly successful regionally in Asia in 2017. business remained challenging; order intake for boiler feed, There, we are continuously expanding our service organisation, condensate and cooling water pumps dropped further. thus winning new customers. 2017, for instance, saw the opening of a service centre in the south of China. Valves In the valves segment, we posted order intake up by 3.7 %; SALES REVENUE it rose by € 12.3 million to € 343.5 million. Most of the Our consolidated sales revenue improved year on year by ­orders for globe, gate and butterfly valves came from industry. € 39.3 million to € 2,205.0 million. This 1.8 % increase slightly Chemical and petrochemical companies also placed more exceeded our expectation of reaching the prior-year level. purchase orders again. The sale of the valves business of our The intensification of our installed base business , which reUS subsidiary KSB AMRI , Inc., which had specialised in sulted in a higher share of orders with a short-cycle impact the production and sale of butterfly valves for chemical applion sales revenue, was a positive factor. Exchange rate changes cations, had an opposite effect. had only a minor impact on sales at € – 5.8 million. The strongest growth rate was posted for orders for globe, gate The Region with the strongest sales revenue continued to be and butterfly valves for energy generation applications, inEurope with a share of some 57 %, where in particular KSB AG cluding high-safety valves for nuclear power plants in Europe (now KSB SE & Co. KGaA) and KSB S.A.S. also process and Asia. We did not yet see any improvement in the business ­orders from countries outside Europe. Overall, the sales revewith cryogenic butterfly valves for liquefied gas tankers and nue of the European countries rose by 1.4 %. KSB AG saw 62 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT a rise of 2.7 % to € 780.8 million (previous year € 760.6 Sales revenue by segment ­million). The strongest upward development was posted by the Asian companies with growth of 13.0 %. In contrast, Service 19 % sales revenue in the Region Americas (– 6.8 %) and the Region Middle East / Africa (– 3.6 %) contracted. Pumps 66% Valves 15% As the effects from construction contracts in the 2017 financial year can also be presented at segment level, as described above, the comparison with the prior-year figures is slightly limited. Pumps Sales revenue for pumps increased by € 15.9 million, equalling 1.1 %, to € 1,444.4 million. Growth drivers were above all Service our companies in Asia, with several local companies also inSales revenue from support services met our expectations of a voicing major orders. Due to the lower number of project stable performance. While we assumed at the start of the ­orders from previous years, however, the general business with year that the continued difficult order situation in the energy standard products and the installed base business formed business and in the oil and gas industry would only permit the basis of our pump sales revenue. Key growth sectors were sales revenue at the previous year’s level, we posted growth of the water and waste water sector as well as mining, which € 5.2 million over the year. The sales revenue volume thus we are supplying with replacement pumps and spare parts in rose by 1.2 % to € 421.7 million. In particular the Region Asia / greater volumes again. Our expectation of a significant dePacific benefited from the performance of our new service cline did therefore not materialise. centres. Valves EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES (EBIT) The rise in order intake did not yet have an impact on sales The KSB Group achieved earnings before interest and taxes revenue in the reporting year. The order gap occurring in the (EBIT) of € 117.2 million (previous year: € 88.2 million). The project business in previous years was not offset by the dePumps segment contributed EBIT of € 79.9 million (previous velopments in the general and installed base business. For that year: € 60.9 million). This means that the forecast (of a signifreason, sales revenue dropped again contrary to forecast. It icant rise) made in the previous year’s report was exceeded. declined by € 21.9 million, or 6.1 %, to € 338.8 million. In this In the Valves segment, the predicted substantial growth in EBIT context, the above-mentioned sale of the business of our did not materialise; instead, the EBIT dropped to € 0.1 milUS valve subsidiary KSB AMRI Inc. reduced sales revenue by lion (previous year € 8.8 million). This was caused by the write-­ about € 7.5 million. down of the goodwill of KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea. The EBIT of the Service segment rose strongly to € 37.3 million (previous year € 33.3 million), which confirmed our forecast. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 63 Econ o m i c R e v i e w Busin e ss De v e l o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s In 2016, the preceding section referred to the operating earnage of total output of operations, at 40.2 %, remained unings (EBIT excluding the effects from the measurement of changed year on year. Overall, the cost of materials increased construction contracts under IAS 11). An adjustment of the to € 887.8 million compared with € 874.2 million. previous year’s figures was not possible, as the effects from construction contracts could not be established at segment Staff costs fell by 0.3 % to € 796.7 million. Staff costs as a level. Additional information can be found in Section I. Basic percentage of total output of operations dropped by 0.7 perPrinciples of the Group – Control System. centage points. The key factor was the continued reduction in headcount. Compared with 2016, the number of employees TOTAL OUTPUT OF OPERATIONS fell by 117, taking the total figure at the end of the year unThe above increase in sales revenue is also reflected in a der review to 15,455. The European companies recorded the higher total output of operations, totalling € 2,210.5 million strongest decrease with a reduction of 249 staff. The biggest compared with € 2,174.2 million in the previous year. falls came at the French and German sites. Employee numbers Work in progress and inventories of finished goods remained were also markedly down in the Americas with 134 fewer virtually unchanged. Other work performed and capitalised people working for KSB on the reporting date compared with amounts to € 5.6 million and is therefore unchanged year on the end of December 2016. This development is the result year. of measures introduced to bring our cost structures into line with new market conditions. The KSB Group employed on INCOME AND EXPENSES average 392 fewer people than in the previous year. Based on Other income declined from € 47.2 million to € 69.2 million, the moderately higher total output of operations and simul­ partly due to higher income from the disposal of assets and taneous decrease in the number of employees, the average outhigh insurance compensations. put per employee improved from € 137 thousand in the previous financial year to € 142 thousand. The cost of materials increased in line with the total output of operations, meaning that the cost of materials as a percentThe ratio of other expenses to total output of operations rose from 17.1 % to 17.8 %. In absolute terms, this represents a change from € 372.4 million to € 392.4 million. Causes were 2.2 higher levels of repairs, external services and other staff costs, which could not be offset by lower selling costs. € Financial income / expense improved by € 3.2 million. This is primarily a reflection of the strong increase in income from billion investments accounted for using the equity method. Based on the contribution to income from our Chinese joint venture, we reported income totalling € 1.5 million. This compares with Consolidated sales revenue in 2017 expenses of € 1.3 million in the previous year. 64 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EARNINGS FINANCIAL POSITION AND The KSB Group generated earnings before income taxes (EBT) NET ASSETS of € 104.2 million, compared with € 74.6 million in 2016. Our previous year’s forecast of a substantial increase in earnFINANCIAL POSITION ings therefore materialised. Correspondingly, the return on The financial position of the KSB Group remains as solid as sales before tax increased from 3.5 % in the previous year to ever, as evidenced by a consistently high equity ratio. 4.7 %, also confirming our expectations expressed in 2016. The income tax rate rose substantially year on year and is now Equity 50.0 % after 36.0 % in the previous year. This rise was attrib­ The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 885.4 million (previous utable to considerably higher deferred tax expenses. Adjusted year: € 890.3 million). This includes KSB AG’s subscribed for the effects resulting from impairment losses on deferred capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital taxes on tax loss carryforwards, the tax rate change in the USA reserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reand the write-down of goodwill of KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South serves total € 611.9 million (previous year: € 614.2 million), Korea, the income tax rate is 37.4 %. Earnings after income including the proportion of earnings after taxes attributable taxes, which totalled € 52.1 million (previous year: € 47.8 to shareholders of KSB AG of € 37.2 million (previous year: million) and thus grew by 9.0 %, rose less markedly than earn€ 32.9 million). € 162.1 million (previous year: € 164.6 milings before income taxes (EBT) (39.6 %). lion) is attributable to non-controlling interests. Due to the lower total equity and liabilities compared with the previous At € 14.9 million, earnings attributable to non-controlling inyear, down 4.1 %, the equity ratio rose slightly to 39.3 % (preterests remained unchanged compared with the previous year. vious year: 37.9 %). Relative to earnings after income taxes, there was therefore a change from 31.0 % to 28.6 %. The non-controlling interests mainly relate to the following companies: KSB Pumps Limited, India; GIW Industries, Inc., Earnings attributable to shareholders of KSB AG (€ 37.2 USA ; KSB America Corporation, USA and KSB Shanghai ­million) were € 4.3 million higher than in the previous year Pump Co., Ltd., China. (€ 32.9 million). Liabilities Earnings per ordinary share were € 21.10, compared with The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions € 18.68 in the previous year, and € 21.36 per preference share, for employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, pencompared with € 18.94 in 2016. sion provisions, which changed only slightly by € 2.6 million from € 589.5 million to € 586.9 million. A large number of the pension plans currently in place in the KSB Group are 104.2 ­ efined benefit models. We will be reducing the associated risks, d such as demographic changes, inflation and salary increases, for example by increasingly introducing defined contribution € plans for new staff. million Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of employees who have left the company account for about 40 % of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest Consolidated earnings (EBT) in 2017 relates to defined benefit obligations for our current employees. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 65 E con o m i c R e v i e w Busi n e ss De v e l o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s Finan c i al Po si ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts 39.3 a­ ccount the fall in total equity and liabilities, the share of ­current liabilities in total equity is 22.7 % (previous year: 26.1 %). % Investments The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 12.5 million (previous year: € 10.0 million) primarily concerned advance Equity ratio in 2017 payments and own work capitalised for a new software to be deployed in Sales, as in the previous year. Investments in property, plant and equipment in the reporting Other provisions for employee benefits, which are predomiyear amounted to € 89.4 million, considerably up on the fignantly current, rose to € 101.5 million (previous year: € 86.9 ure of € 72.2 million for the previous year. The highest addimillion). tions at € 29.0 million (previous year: € 21.1 million) relate to plant and machinery. A further € 20.4 million (previous The development of other provisions, which we created almost year: € 23.6 million) relates to advance payments and assets exclusively for current uncertain liabilities, was stable (€ 99.8 under construction. As in 2016, the focus of our investment million compared with € 99.6 million in 2016). An increase activities was Europe, and predominantly Germany and in the provisions for warranty obligations and contractual France. Outside of Europe, the highest additions were again penalties as well as provisions for expected losses from uncommade at our plants in India (in particular in Shirwal), in pleted transactions offset declining provisions for restruc­ ­Pakistan, the USA and in China. We maintained our policies turing measures and provisions for other obligations. for measuring depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. Non-current financial liabilities fell by € 3.7 million to € 54.3 million, which was caused by the reduction in bank loans Net financial position and overdrafts. The loan against borrower’s note, which still The net financial position, at € 288.0 million compared with amounts to € 48. million, is expected to be repaid in 2019 € 259.5 million in the previous year, developed much more and 2021. favourably than forecast twelve months earlier (€ 240 to 260 million) due to a decrease in trade receivables. Current liabilities decreased overall by € 102.7 million (€ 510.8 million compared with € 613.5 million at the 2016 year end). Liquidity Trade payables rose only slightly to € 212.0 million (€ 210.8 Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 120.7 million in the previous year) despite the higher business volmillion, a year-on-year decrease of € 13.8 million. This was ume. Other non-financial liabilities increased (+ € 7.2 million), principally attributable to the high commitment of funds in but other financial liabilities fell to the same extent (– € 7.9 trade receivables and other assets and in inventories (release million). The decrease in current financial liabilities by € 98.0 of funds in previous year). This contrasted with higher million is attributable to the planned repayment, referred ­advances received and provisions, which failed to offset the to above, of the loan against borrower’s note. Taking into commitment of funds. 66 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT 288 Contingencies and commitments The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities to€ talled € 16.1 million as at the reporting date (previous year: € 15.9 million). These arise mainly from collateral and permillion formance guarantees. There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitNet financial position in 2017 ments beyond the reporting date. Other financial obligations arise only within the normal scope from long-term rental, lease and service agreements (in particular IT and telecommunications) necessary for business operations and from purThe outflows from our investing activities decreased by chase commitments amounting to € 12.2 million (previous year: € 105.8 million compared with 2016. The return of term de€ 17.9 million). posits and commercial papers increased cash flows considerably. Accordingly, cash flows from investing activities rose sigNET ASSETS nificantly to € – 8.2 million (previous year: € – 114.0 million). Our total assets fell by 4.1 % to € 2,253.4 million. Considerable decreases were recorded for both non-current assets Negative cash flows from financing activities increased strong(particularly deferred tax assets) and for other financial assets. ly, totalling € – 106.0 million compared with € – 9.6 million Increases were only recorded in property, plant and equipin the previous year. The reason are the planned repayments ment and intangible assets, as well as in other non-financial of the loan against borrower’s note. assets. Cash and cash equivalents from all cash flows barely changed Around 28.5 % is attributable to fixed assets (previous year: from € 288.9 million to € 289.5 million. Exchange rate effects 27.3 %). Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounting to € – 6.8 million (previous year: € + 4.3 million) with a historical cost of € 1,424.3 million (previous year: contributed to this. € 1,393.1 million) have carrying amounts of € 614.3 million (previous year: € 608.2 million). Intangible assets were reWe assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to duced by € 5.6 milliion due to the above-mentioned writemeet our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. down of goodwill of our company KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South From the current perspective our financial management is Korea. This was more than offset by the advance payments meeting the goal of ensuring our liquidity at all times essenmade on intangible assets, meaning that the intangible assets tially without any additional external financing measures. rose from € 106.7 million to € 108.1 million. With investments For more information on liquidity management (such as credit in property, plant and equipment (€ 89.4 million) once again lines) see the section on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation exceeding write-downs (€ 60.9 million), this balance sheet item of Financial Instruments elsewhere in this group management increased by € 4.6 million. The carrying amount of financial report. assets and investments ­accounted for using the equity method CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 67 Econ o m i c R e v i e w Fina n c i al Po si ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts Expenses in statement of comprehensive income (in %) 2017 41.3 37.1 3.3 18.3 2016 41.3 37.7 3.4 17.6 Cost of materials Staff costs Depreciation and amortisation expense Other expenses Balance sheet structure Assets (in %) 2017 4.8 22.4 1.3 4.1 20.5 34.1 12.8 0.6 2016 4.5 21.4 1.4 4.8 19.9 35.1 12.3 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets held for sale Equity and liabilities (in %) 2017 39.3 30.1 30.6 2016 37.9 28.8 33.3 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities fell by a total of € 4.7 million to € 28.3 million. The investby an increase in recoverable taxes from € 18.1 million to ments accounted for ­using the equity method accounted for € 30.8 million. This increase is attributable to higher receiv­ € – 2.3 million. Deferred tax assets decreased to € 91.7 mil­ables from indirect taxes in Asia. lion (previous year: € 112.2 million). Cash and cash equivalents account for around 13 % of assets, Inventories totalled € 461.9 million, down € 5.5 million from totalling € 289.5 million (previous year: € 288.9 million). the 2016 year end. Materials, consumables and supplies as well as work in progress fell, whereas finished goods and There were no assets held for sale in the financial year, as we goods purchased and held for resale increased. Inventories sold the valves business of our US subsidiary KSB AMRI Inc., continued to tie up around 20 % of our resources. and a Chinese company. Despite the higher business volume, trade receivables and Inflation and exchange rate effects PoC could be reduced by € 1.0 million compared with the There were no consolidated companies within the Group 2016 year-end figure. Overall – taking into account the change whose financial statements were required to be adjusted for in total assets – this balance sheet item accounts for approxithe effects of inflation. mately 27 % (previous year: 26 %) of total assets. The currency translation of financial statements of consoliOther financial assets fell from € 187.0 million to € 117.0 dated companies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a million, as we wound up term deposits and commercial difference of € – 54.1 million (previous year € + 20.2 million). ­papers with a maturity of 3 to 12 months. This is contrasted This was taken directly to equity. 68 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT SUMMARY OF THE PERFORMANCE pected. The earnings before income taxes (EBT) continue IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR to be impacted by one-off costs in the amount of € 50 million, as expected. The net financial position, at € 288.0 million The forecasts made in the previous year’s report were largely compared with € 259.5 million in the previous year, developed realised due to the circumstances outlined. more favourably than predicted twelve months earlier. We participated in the stronger investment activities of our Overall, therefore, order intake and sales revenue developed customers in industry and water and waste water management. somewhat better than expected in the reporting year. Our Our customers also made previously deferred investments ­expectations for the earnings figures of the Group were met in mining, which had a positive impact on order intake, meanin full overall. This also applies to the return on sales. ing that the significant improvements in order intake pre­ dicted in the previous year materialised. As expected, the growth KSB continues to have a healthy financial basis for the future. of the Pumps and Valves segments exceeded the increase in the Service segment. DEPENDENT COMPANY We slightly exceeded the stable sales revenue predicted in the previous year, although the forecast on the sales revenue deREPORT velopment was not realised in all segments. For instance, sales The Board of Management has submitted the dependent revenue in the Pumps segments rose slightly (forecast in the ­company report to the Supervisory Board. This concludes with previous year: significant decline). In the Valves segment, conthe following declaration: “In accordance with section 312(3) trary to our expectations of a slight rise, there was a tangible of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], fall. In the Service segment, however, our forecast of stable we declare that our company – on the basis of the circumsales revenue proved correct. stances known to us at the time when the transactions were made – did not receive adequate compensation for all trans­ The significant improvement in EBIT predicted in the previactions listed in the dependent company report. All disadvanous year materialised as expected. In this context, the increase tages have been compensated for in the course of the finanin the Pumps segment exceeded our forecast of significant cial year. No measures subject to reporting requirements were growth; the substantial improvement predicted for the Service undertaken in the financial year.” segment was confirmed. In the Valves segment, however, our expectation of a substantial rise did not materialise. Instead, EBIT fell strongly due to the write-down of goodwill of our company KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea. Like the substantial improvement in EBIT outlined above, the earnings before ­income taxes (EBT ) and the return on sales increased as exCO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 69 Econ o m i c R e v i e w S umm ary o f th e Pe rfo rm an c e i n th e Fi n an c i al Ye ar D e pen de n t C o m pan y R e po rt Re po rt o n Ex pe c te d De v e l o pm e n ts REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS For 2018, the International Monetary Fund expects global ­remains a key growth market for equipment goods such as growth in real terms of 3.9 %. Accordingly, the dynamic perpumps and valves despite the slight weakening. formance of the past year will continue and perhaps accelerate slightly. In this context, the IMF and other institutions assume Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Peru will also continue to benefit a synchronous economic development, which includes all key from the recovery of commodity prices, as will Russia. In economic areas. ­particular for our companies in South America, opportunities are therefore increasing to expand their business with pumps, In the industrialised nations, economic development will convalves and support services. In Russia we can use a new assemtinue at a comparable growth speed as in 2017 based on exbly and servicing plant to serve the reviving market in the pected growth of 2.3 %. Companies in these nations can benecurrent financial year. fit from growing demand from emerging markets in addition to a good domestic economy. In the euro zone, which is of key According to the assessment of the VDMA , the mechanical significance for our business, the favourable financing options engineering sector will participate adequately in the global continue to bolster the economic upswing. According to IMF economic performance. Globally, the VDMA expects a real infigures, this should result in a gross domestic product that crease of 4 %; its forecast for the German mechanical engiis higher by 2.2 %. Where this goes hand in hand with intenneering sector is only slightly weaker at 3.0 %. sified investment activities, it will have a positive impact on the pumps and valves industry. Boosted by the tax reform, the As far as manufacturers of liquid pumps in Germany are congrowth signal in the USA is also green. Investment activities cerned, the VDMA expects real sales revenue growth of 3 % in there will likely increase, which will create more favourable the current year; for industrial valves, the association expects framework conditions for the local KSB companies. an increase of 2 %. The emerging market and developing countries are forecast PROSPECTS IN ORDER INTAKE AND SALES REVENUE to see slightly stronger momentum overall, which may result The announced continuation of global economic growth is in an increase of 4.9 %. Economic prospects in the countries creating good framework conditions for an expansion of our in Asia and Latin America that are key for our global business business in and outside Europe. Overall, we are expecting are promising. Economists expect 7.4 % GDP growth in continued growth of our order intake in the current year. This I­ ndia. This goes hand in hand with the expectation that the will be based largely on the expansion of our business with economy will overcome the uncertainty caused by the cash standard products, support services and spare parts. In addiand tax reform. Our strong local production base will also help tion, the rising willingness of our customers to invest gives us to benefit from the Make in India campaign . In China rise to expectations that they will increasingly also tackle mait is to be expected that the expansionary momentum will drop jor projects. For these, we can supply products tailored to to 6.6 % due to the politically intended shift towards a serproject specifications in addition to standard pumps and valves. vice-driven and sustainable economy. This goes hand in hand Overall, we expect a tangible increase both in order intake with measures to stem the growth in debts. The country and sales revenue. 70 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Gross domestic product growth Valves World* As far as order intake for valves is concerned, we expect signif2018 + 3.9 % (Forecast) icant growth driven, in particular, by demand from industry. 2017 + 3.7 % Above all customers in the oil and gas sector will make investEuropean Union** ments that they had postponed. At the same time, we expect 2018 + 2.3 % (Forecast) to be able to use opportunities for the sale of pipeline valves 2017 + 2.4 % in water transport and the construction industry in Asia to Latin America* also offer sales opportunities. 2018 + 1.9 % (Forecast) 2017 + 1.3 % By contrast, demand for liquefied gas valves for tankers and Asia (excl. Japan)* loading stations will likely not rise again until the end of 2018 + 6.5 % (Forecast) the year. We expect a falling order intake trend in the energy 2017 + 6.5 % sector, where we see hardly any business opportunities in Emerging markets* the construction and upgrading of coal power plants, except 2018 + 4.9 % (Forecast) in Asia. Sales revenue for valves will increase slightly from 2017 + 4.7 % today’s perspective. * Source: International Monetary Fund (Januar 2018) Service ** S ource: European Commission (February 2018); In Service, we have set ourselves the target of strong growth additional information: euro zone + 2.4 % (2017), + 2.2 % (2018) for the coming years. 2018 will still see opposing effects, which result from the streamlining of our structures in Germany and France. We nevertheless expect a stable order intake for Pumps the current year, whereas sales revenue is likely to grow In the Pumps segment, we expect a strong increase in order ­tangibly. intake; sales revenue is expected to grow tangibly. We expect the upward trend in industry and in water and waste water To this end, we will not least strengthen our valves service, management to continue. To grow in these strategically parafor which we also entered into new framework agreements in mount markets, we will optimise our product range and 2017. We also intend to expand our range of engineering ­simultaneously intensify our activities to sell our renowned ­services. With a view to creating a closer-knit customer service standard pumps for industrial and municipal water supply network, we plan to establish new service centres in South­globally. To this end, we have expanded our production base ern and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, China and the USA. and simplified the electronic selection and ordering of our Relevant acquisitions are also being considered. standardised pumps. We also continue to focus on the support of major customers. Thanks to the breadth of our portfolio, In addition, our service range is continuously adapted to which spans building services pumps through to specialised ­accommodate the roll-out of new products. This includes, for high-pressure pump sets, we can offer them comprehensive instance, the creation of hygienic workstations for the main­ customer care. tenance and repair of pumps for sterile processes. We aim to strengthen and expand the technical and organisational know-how of our specialists at a newly launched international service academy in 2018. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 71 Re po rt o n Ex pe c te d De v e l o pm e n ts Gross domestic product growth in the BRIC countries stable earnings contribution from the Valves segment. Among Brazil other factors, the one-off development costs for major power 2018 + 1.9 % (Forecast) plant valves, for which we have already received orders, and 2017 + 1.1 % the further delay in the recovery of the business with liqueRussia fied gas valves are weighing on performance. 2018 + 1.7 % (Forecast) 2017 + 1.8 % In terms of earnings before income taxes (EBT) and the reIndia turn on sales, our expectation is that both key indicators will 2018 + 7.4 % (Forecast) increase strongly. 2017 + 6.7 % China For the net financing position, we plan to achieve a value sig2018 + 6.6 % (Forecast) nificantly above the previous year. 2017 + 6.8 % The forecast horizon for all the afore-mentioned measures Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2018) is the 2018 financial year. Material special factors beyond this period may result from our measures geared towards the long-term improvement of our profit situation. SUMMARY OF EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT For the current business period, we expect, as outlined above, FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS a tangible improvement in order intake. Major orders will This report contains forward-looking statements and informacontribute to this, among others in India, where we have extion that are based upon the assumptions of Management. panded our capacities. We expect a strong increase in the They express our current forecasts and expectations with rePumps segment. The development in the Valves segment will gard to future events. As a result, these forward-looking be slightly weaker, but we still expect a significant increase in statements and information are exposed to risks and uncertainorder intake. For the Service segment, however, we expect a ties that lie outside the Management’s sphere of influence. stable order intake. We wish to point out that actual events or results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements and infor­ We expect sales revenue, too, to rise tangibly overall. In this mation mentioned, if one or more of the following opportunicontext, we expect significant growth in the Pumps and Service ties or risks, or other opportunities, risks and uncertainties segments, and a slight rise in the Valves segment. should materialise, or if the assumptions underlying the statements prove to be inaccurate. We will be continuing with our measures for long-term improvements in our profit situation, which were initiated in the previous years. These aim to reduce material, staff and overhead costs. We expect savings that will have a positive effect on future earnings. For 2018, we are planning consolidated earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) that should tangibly exceed the prior-year level. EBIT in the pumps segment is planned to rise substantially. In the Service segment, we expect significant increases, while we expect only a 72 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS REPORT As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the that are not consolidated, are included in the risk manageKSB Group is exposed to macroeconomic, sector-typical, ment system. The responsible managers are required to supply ­financial and company-specific risks. Our risk policy is designed their relevant key business and financial indicators each month. to enable us to grow sustainably and profitably. We aim to As well as creating quarterly forecasts on business trends, ­reduce the risks associated with our business and where possithey also twice a year report the recognised risks for the next ble avoid them completely. At the same time our global align24 months from the reporting date for the categories of ment and our extensive product range offer a wealth of oppormarket and competitive risks, technological risks, projectand tunities. This includes in particular any opportunities that product-related risks, financial risks and procurement risks. arise on the basis of our research and development activities, Other business risks (environmental, human resources, etc.) as well as any that are linked to the quality and cost effectiveare also reported in this cycle to the Risk Managers at the ness of our products. Our competitive position is also being Group headquarters. We classify risks as qualitative and quanstrengthened by optimising our global sales and production titative risks: network. We always review opportunities to expand our global presence and are able to achieve this through start-ups and Qualitative risks are long-term developments that could have acquisition projects. a negative impact on the KSB Group and which cannot or cannot yet be thoroughly quantified due to a lack of precise We see opportunities and risks as possible future developinformation. In order to still be able to evaluate them, how­ ments or events that may lead to forecast or target deviation. ever, we make estimates of the probability of occurrence and The deviation can be both positive and negative. In order to scope. With respect to probability of occurrence, the extent manage the varied opportunities and risks professionally and to which the information indicating the potential risk is deefficiently, we align our actions accordingly and focus upon tailed must be determined. The scope describes the potential the respective situation when selecting the persons responsible. influence of the individual risk on the earnings before interest In doing so, Controlling, Finance and Accounting as well as and taxes (EBIT) of the KSB Group or the respective Group ­Internal Audits perform important monitoring tasks. company. RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Quantitative risks are those risks with possible monetary KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system ­impact on the earnings of the KSB Group or the respective for identifying and assessing relevant risks and reporting Group company. They are evaluated taking into account the these to Group headquarters. The risk management process probability of occurrence in combination with the potential of the KSB Group consists of the successive phases of iden­ amount of loss. tification, assessment, management, control, documentation and communication of risks. The six phases form a continuIn order to assess whether qualitative and quantitative individous and IT-based closed-loop system. This is documented in ual risks are significant for us, we classify them as acceptable, our risk management manual as well as the management neutral or significant risks. We consider as material for the KSB ­responsibility and the description of all relevant tasks. Group all individual risks categorised as neutral or significant that are detailed in the “Individually assessed opportunities Managers are encouraged to take timely action to define and and risks” section. The relevant classification can be deterimplement measures to limit or avoid damage that may result mined from the matrices below: from the occurrence of risk events. All corporate and central Qualitative risks – Quantitative risks functions and Group companies, including Group companies CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 73 Oppo rtu n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt Qualitative risks Quantitative risks Probability of occurrence Probability of occurrence High High Significant Significant >70 % Neutral Medium Neutral Medium 30 –70 % Low Low Acceptable Acceptable < 30 % Low Medium High Low Medium High Scope Amount of loss Classification of amount of loss Amount of loss in € thousands Magnitude Sales revenue Low Medium High Small companies Up to € 20 million 50 – 125 125 – 250 > 250 Medium-sized companies € 20 to € 80 million 75 – 250 250 – 500 > 500 Large companies, holding companies, organisational units From € 80 million 100 – 500 500 – 1,000 > 1,000 Evaluation of the amount of loss is based on just three possible agement process at Group level and investigates all reported classifications: low, medium and high. The above criteria risks to determine whether they are relevant for the financial apply. statements. It ensures that there is a systematic link with the Classification of amount of loss Group accounting process. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee received at least two This approach gives us the necessary transparency to identify risk reports per financial year. These reports include all the risks in their entirety and to manage them effectively, profesrisks that are categorised as significant or neutral that exceed sionally and in an economically responsible manner. pre-defined threshold values individually or collectively, not considering any action that has been taken. Particularly critiThe bodies to which specific responsibilities and competencal topics are reported on an ad-hoc basis by the managers cies were assigned in KSB’s risk management system in the in charge. In contrast, opportunities are not taken into account reporting year are shown and explained in the diagram below. in this system, but are examined separately in consultation Risk management at KSB with segment managers and regional managers applying a different assessment system. The Board of Management of KSB AG had overall responsibility for risk management. It reported to the Supervisory With regard to financial risks we also make use of additional Board during regular Audit Committee meetings and was monrisk identification, assessment, management and communi­ itored by the latter. The Board of Management was supported cation. The central Finance department is responsible for this by the Chief Compliance Officer and the Group Finance and task which is described in further detail later in this section. Accounting department. The latter coordinates the risk man74 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Risk management at KSB Supervisory Board Board of Management Auditors Risk Managers Internal Audits • A  udit of the annual financial • C ontrolling the risk management • M  onitoring of proper functioning statements ­process and effectiveness • Recommendations for improvement • Analysing the risk reports • Reporting to the Board of Management Risk Owners • Risk identification • Risk evaluation • Risk control and monitoring (incl. implementation of measures) • Risk recording • Risk communication / Ad hoc reporting Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance Our risk management system is regularly reviewed and ­Officer, who is assigned to the Legal and Compliance, Patents promptly updated where necessary, for example, in the event and Trademarks staff function. The Chief Compliance Officer of relevant legal or organisational changes. In addition, our is supported by the members of the Compliance Committee ­auditor examines within the scope of the annual audit the early and the Compliance Managers of the individual companies. risk detection system, establishing that it is present and checking that it is fit for purpose. The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk management system as part of our internal control system. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND When planning audits, it prioritises areas according to po­ RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM WITH REGARD tential risks and is provided with all the necessary information. TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTING PROCESS The auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the apThe accounting-related internal control system (ICS) contribplicable guidelines, actively participate in the risk management utes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The aim is system, and control or avoid their risks. Information obtained to ensure that the consolidated financial statements and group by Internal Audits on both the recognised risks and the counmanagement report comply with all relevant regulations. termeasures introduced in response forms an integral part Key elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk management of the reporting to the Board of Management and the Audit system described above – guidelines and regulations, which Committee of the Supervisory Board. include standard accounting and measurement policies. They must be applied to the full extent by all our Group companies. Functional separation and the principle of dual control are observed; this is ensured by the audits carried out by our Internal Audits department. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 75 Oppo rtu n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt In addition, the Accounting department carries out regular lar basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up analytical plausibility checks using time series analyses and to date. actual / budget variance analyses. This enables us to identify significant changes early on, which we then examine for We have defined access authorisations for the accounting-­ ­accounting and measurement discrepancies. The resulting findrelated IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised ings are then discussed at management level. access as well as improper usage and modification. The data is checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing The responsibility for Group accounting lies with the employquality. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, ees in the central Accounting KSB Group department. We these checks contribute to limiting operational risks. ­employ the services of qualified external reviewers for certain calculations as part of financial reporting (such as the calculaINDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS tion of complex pension obligations using actuarial assumpThe categories presented below – unless stipulated otherwise – tions). include the qualitative and quantitative gross risks classified as significant or neutral and the main opportunities for our Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within business development. The main influencing factor remains the the KSB Group and to accounting at each individual subsidieconomic development. All other opportunities and risks are ary. The accounting methods that must be applied to compile assessed as secondary. the consolidated financial statements are defined in writing in a manual that we update and revise on a continual basis. This Markets / Competition also includes the guidelines for posting intra-group transactions. We continually analyse new accounting principles and Risks other official announcements with regard to their relevance Our business opportunities are again affected by changes in and impact on the consolidated financial statements. We adapt the economic and political environments in the current reour guidelines and manual where necessary and communiporting year. cate any changes immediately to our companies. Accounting KSB Group monitors compliance with these regulations. We manage the risk of fluctuations in the economy and in This enables us to reduce the risk of compiling inappropriate demand by remaining active in several market sectors and infinancial statements or failing to publish them by the defined dustries with different economic cycles. Furthermore we are deadlines. monitoring the development of the economic environment for our market sectors. If necessary, we adjust capacities, relocate We automatically process the financial statement information production facilities and implement cost-cutting measures. for all Group companies using certified and tested standard consolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented Asia remains our most important sales market for power to help us validate the data. Employees in Accounting KSB plant equipment, including pumps and valves. However, comGroup verify any warning signals that arise before using the petition in China intensified further. For the KSB Group, data. The sequence of the processing steps is strictly specified this has created increased pricing pressure and thus represents through the use of the consolidation monitor within our IT a “significant” risk. Political decisions too, such as the postsystem. This ensures the correct processing of data. ponement or even abandonment of energy projects in several Chinese provinces, have impacted negatively on our business To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, we performance. In order to tap into the Asian market more wideonly assign employees to this task who have the appropriate ly, we have agreed a strategic alliance with our long-term specialist know-how. These employees are trained on a regupartner, the Chinese SEC Group, in late 2015. This aims at 76 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT closer cooperation so that KSB can achieve success in Asian In China business prospects are arising in the retrofitting of power plant projects outside of China. coal-fired power plants, which are upgraded to become more efficient and environmentally friendly. In addition, KSB The risk from the political situation in various parts of this Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. can contribute its expertise to the world, however, lost some significance year on year. Accordconstruction of fossil-fuelled power plants, which Chinese plant ing to our assessment, the framework conditions in the counengineers are planning and installing in selected countries tries of the Region Middle East / Africa, which were presented within the framework of the One Road, One Belt policy. in the 2016 annual report as risks, are no longer material risks in the financial year. However, the East / West relations In China and India with their strong need to catch up with that are under considerable strain given the political differenvironmental protection requirements, ongoing action plans ences between Russia and the USA, and between Russia and offer good opportunities for waste water pumps, which are most European countries, continue to be significant. This required in sewage treatment plants and the requisite infraalso becomes apparent in the Russian government’s import structure. In India, in particular, which is suffering from serisubstitution programme, which constitutes a “significant” ous air pollution, tackling the causes may also increase derisk. Russian companies are to increasingly order products mand for flue gas desulphurisation pumps from our portfolio. that have been made in Russia or involve a high proportion of local value added. Our KSB company in Moscow has preProjects / Products pared for this development, setting up a local assembly site for industrial and water engineering pumps in leased premises. Risks In addition, an own production site is being established, The markets’ requirements for our products are constantly which will start operations in 2018 according to our plans. Our changing. We will only succeed if we meet our delivery deadcompany almost doubled the domestic value added share lines and offer technically advanced products in good quality ­already in the reporting year. at affordable prices. To minimise the risk of delivery delays, which can lead to an adverse effect on our reputation with We considered the risk of a fall in demand in the petrochemicustomers and also result in financial penalties, we constantly cal industry in China in our sales strategy. It is therefore no monitor our sales and manufacturing operations. If we dislonger material for our expected business development, concover that machinery needs to be renewed or capacities extrary to the previous year. panded, we examine these investment projects as part of a step-by-step approval process. By doing this, we counter the Opportunities risk of schedule and cost overruns that is rated as “signifiWhereas business in the field of fossil-source energy generation cant”. remains weak, there is a trend towards growing demand for technical equipment from energy supply companies operating Regular market analysis and monitoring minimise the risk nuclear power stations. Here, KSB sees opportunities as a that our products will become technically obsolete or that we provider of high-safety components to participate in the supply offer them at prices not acceptable in the market. At the same of equipment, but also to provide maintenance and repair time, we are exposed to the risk posed by cheap products services for such plants with its specially qualified staff. from Eastern Europe and Asia that compete with KSB’s portCO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 77 Oppo rtu n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt folio. This calls for continuous quality management, which Opportunities we have introduced across the Group. Digital transformation enables us to better fulfil customer ­requirements with new products and services and to generate In our business, there are special requirements when it comes competitive advantages. A new pump monitoring system to to the processing of large-scale projects with long contract be launched in the market in the current year serves this aim. terms. There are also always associated risks. There may be It sends values measured by sensors into a cloud for analysis cost overruns, tighter import regulations, staff shortages, and increases transparency for operators of machinery. As a technical difficulties or quality problems – including possible result, deterioration and damage can be identified early on contractual penalties – that reduce our margins. We therefore and appropriate measures be initiated. This can result in a train our employees in project management and equip them higher number of service orders in the medium term. The inwith specialist knowledge. This enables them to identify troduction of the new SAP C4C cloud software enables us to the risks associated with longer-term orders at an early stage. better control service processes and to plan assembly assignWith this in mind, our project managers are also provided ments precisely. with appropriate management tools. Decisions are made in conjunction with clearly structured authorisation processes. There are also good chances that our customers will increasingly ask for products newly launched in 2017, such as high-­ There are also technical and financial risks to orders with pressure pumps and pressure booster sets, oil pumps to API newly designed products. We limit technical risks to the extent standards, waste water pumps with high efficiencies and subthat we define intermediate steps for development work mersible borehole pumps. This also applies to new valves for and subject partial solutions to assessments. This also applies use in water pipelines, ANSI valves for power plants and­ to pumps that we provide within the framework of a major diaphragm valves with improved pneumatic actuators. contract running over a number of years for the construction of a new type of power plant in China. We minimise finanNew high-efficiency waste water pumps open up opportunicial risks by using appropriate contractual clauses, and ensure ties for KSB BRASIL LTDA. to improve its market position in that advances cover the costs incurred. We set aside suitable the waste water market compared with competitors. provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalty risks. These amounted to € 51 million in the consolidated The expansion of our range of mechanical seals to more than ­financial statements for 2017 compared with € 50 million in 30 type series provides added options for fitting pumps for the previous year; beyond this there is no other major resid­ the most varied applications with this core component or for ual risk (net risk). supplying such seals as spare parts. By intensifying the sale of these components produced in-house, we are increasing the The protection of intellectual property is also becoming ever value-added depth and thus our pumps business profit. more significant in our increasingly interconnected world. We are addressing a growing risk by registering patents early, Finance / Liquidity monitoring Internet platforms for the sale of pumps and valves and taking legal action against anyone violating our Risks rights. As a group with global operations, we are exposed to a wide variety of currency risks. We counter these with foreign exchange hedges. However, our global manufacturing network 78 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT also offers us the opportunity to benefit from currency effects As regards tax matters, the global orientation of our activities and to use these where appropriate in competition with other must be taken into consideration. Based on our operative manufacturers. In addition to uncertainties regarding exchange ­activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and rates, interest rate developments on the capital markets play administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is a role for us. We use bank loans subject to variable interest ­required for measuring our tax obligations. Uncertainty may rates to counter the interest rate risk by hedging our future arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on interest payment flows accordingly. the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. These may come to light during audits. By cooperating closely with Alongside the euro, the most important currencies for the external local tax specialists, we counteract the risk of having KSB Group are the US dollar, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian to pay back taxes, which is rated as “significant”. As we real and the Chinese yuan. If the exchange rate differs from ­continually monitor unclear issues, we can generally classify our assumptions, this would have positive or negative effects the probability of occurrence. Should a need for subsequent on our business volumes and our earnings. A strict receivapayment arise, we create the corresponding provisions in good bles management system and the use of trade credit insurance time. In the 2017 consolidated financial statements, we set helps us avoid situations where receivables cannot be colaside € 0 million (previous year: € 1.3 million) for circumlected from our customers. stances that are classified as a significant or neutral risk. In addition, there are contingent liabilities in the expected Risks regarding margins and liquidity are typical of the proamount of € 1.6 million (previous year: € 7.4 million). ject business. As well as the continued pressure on our selling prices, which is reducing our profit margins, these include Procurement ­unfavourable contract conditions such as reduced advances and tougher contractual penalties. As we comply exactly Risks with our approval processes in the quotation phase, we miniCommodity prices and procurement times are subject to mise this risk. At the same time, this enables us to recognise strong market-related fluctuations. This may adversely affect and avoid liquidity shortages. Where necessary, we secure sufour earnings situation if we do not manage to make up for ficient liquidity by agreeing appropriate credit lines early on. cost increases or pass them onto our customers. Delays or bottlenecks in our supply chain for raw materials and compoPersistent recessions or newly emerging crises may adversely nents may negatively impact our business operations. If we affect the financial situation of our customers. Resulting do not benefit promptly from declining procurement prices, ­delays in payment and bad debts which were rated as “signifithe persistent pressure on the selling price of our products cant” in the financial year would weigh on our results of op­ would have a negative effect on our earnings. erations. The same effect might occur if the foreign exchange regulations become stricter for individual countries. We In the context of our procurement strategy, we are also careful counter this by means of a strict receivables management systo avoid becoming dependent on individual suppliers and tem and intensive customer contacts. thereby counteract the risk of a supplier default. If local conditions mean that it is impossible to ensure sufficient diver­ Changing market conditions mean that our business models sification in this regard, we make use of additional foreign need to be fundamentally reviewed time and time again. This business partners. In selected cases, we also integrate ex­ can also mean that we adjust our product range accordingly. ternal expertise into our company, not least to make the best possible use of our capacity. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 79 Oppo rtu n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt Our suppliers are also further developing their product ranges. Opportunities In some cases, this results in changes to the specifications At our Business Innovation Lab we develop new business for the materials that we require. We consistently monitor any models on the basis of digital technologies. The aim is to offer potential impact on the quality of our products. Should risks customers smart solutions to problems in liquid transport emerge, we reserve higher volumes based on the original ma­using plant-based data and to simultaneously ensure a high terial structure, where possible, and assess alternative prolevel of security and transparency of their processes. In a test curement sources. phase, we check these models for functionality and market­ ability in order to tap new business opportunities. Opportunities Process improvements and new forms of the global procureFor example, we deal with application software (apps) for the ment of materials and services are key elements of our Effiremote control of our products, the electronic change of fixed ciency Improvement Programme. A reduction in costs is inspeeds – as an alternative to mechanical adjustments – as well creasingly served by online auctions, which help to achieve as the miniaturisation of power electronics and its integrafavourable purchase prices thanks to the strong competition. tion in the motor. New cooling concepts and loss-reduced semiThe processes, which can be controlled with comparatively conductors serve precisely this purpose. In the current year, few members of staff, reduce the indirect procurement costs we will be launching a cloud-based system for pump monitorand offer the opportunity of a high level of transparency in ing into the market for the first time, which will provide supplier selection, which we can base on a large number of ­ sers with structured information and early warnings. We see u providers. opportunities of receiving orders in a noteworthy volume for this new development as early as in 2018. Technology / Research and Development With a view to serving our customers in the oil and gas indusRisks try, we focused on the development of pumps to API 610 It is essential to our future success that we have a product standards in 2017 and enhanced our range of products for and service range that is suited to the market in terms of techdownstream applications. This opens up opportunities for nology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of our winning additional orders. Initial order successes for new API customers and new standards and regulations – especially in pumps were recorded already in 2017. promising markets such as China – require that we continuously develop and improve our products and services. Research As far as pumps for energy engineering are concerned, a focus and development required for adjustments consumes signi­ of our development work was on product adjustments in order ficant financial and human resources, with no guarantee of to supply combined-cycle power plants in North America success in either the medium or the long term. with the technical equipment needed. To this end, we expanded our portfolio with new variants of boiler feed and conTo avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to densate pumps. On the basis of these technological developrecognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To ments, we expect to boost sales in this application area. this end, we are constantly updating our development process, which incorporates various control levels. As sales employees We have established a dedicated development team to provide are regularly included in this process, risks arising from changes large tubular casing pumps meeting the required specificain markets or applications can be taken into account in good tions. This enables us to produce customised variants of this time in the evaluation. 80 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT product for the project business in a narrow time frame. We tions with the seller and implement appropriate measure in ­received orders for this type of pump in 2017 for cooling water consultation it. supply and for flood control. The latter will increase in sig­ nificance on account of global warming. Aiming to expand In markets where environmental regulations are becoming the business with tubular casing pumps, we are currently more stringent, there is a risk that our products and own or driving the development of fish-friendly propellers. They will purchased services may cause infringements that lead to us expand the potential uses of these pumps. losing our market authorisation and which damage our reputation. A change in rules on liability in environmental proRapid manufacturing will have an impact on the availability tection can also increase the risks for our business success. As of parts. Using CAD data, it is today possible to manufacture a member of national and international professional associathe components of pumps and valves anywhere in the world. tions we become aware of imminent changes in environmental We achieved further progress in the use of additive manu­ law early on. We also continually update the legal framefacturing processes in 2017 and will install a large stainless works that are in place in our Operational Units, enabling us steel powder bed 3D plant in the current year. The use of this to ensure that our employees always abide by the applicable technology allows offering customers new production alterlaw. This is also monitored by external auditors as part of the natives and receiving corresponding orders. management certifications. Other business-specific risks – Environment Opportunities At KSB, environmental awareness is combined with an active Risks and forward-looking approach as well as internal processes Our business activities, primarily in the area of production, are that enable permanent cost reductions. This applies, for insubject to numerous environmental protection laws and stance, to all measures that reduce energy consumption in pro­regulations. Environmental damage of any kind (for example, duction, service and in the administrative areas. Inversely, groundwater contamination, renovation needed due to outwe offer the users of our products the opportunity to reduce dated construction materials or unpleasant odours arising from their electricity costs by selecting energy-efficient KSB products. the use of chemicals) may result in losses not covered by an insurance policy. Therefore, at all company sites officers monHazards to people and nature may emanate from the producitor compliance with laws and regulations as well as with tion and processing methods of manufacturing companies. ­internal KSB rules, which in some cases exceed the prescribed Our global environmental management system helps us to idenenvironmental standards. If we discover any contamination, tify these risks early on and to initiate protective measures in we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary good time. We thereby not only prevent pollution, but also its clean-up work. In the 2017 consolidated financial statements, financial consequences. these amounted to just under € 0.2 million for significant or neutral risks. Drawing on a functioning and certified environmental management system, we fulfil a requirement of numerous public-­ As part of acquisition projects, we examine properties for sector customers, large companies and entire industries such possible contamination before purchase. We take account of as the automotive sector. For them, evidence of an environcritical issues by way of corresponding contractual regulamental management system is an increasingly important criterion in the selection of suppliers. By having our production CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 81 Oppo rtu n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt and service plants checked by auditors and certified to internaChanges to our processes and organisational structure, such tional standards, we and our customers are both assured that as the introduction of shared services centres, require clearly KSB companies respect the environment. Our commitment to defined project responsibilities and valid project plans, as well the UN Global Compact also meets the expectations of our as the selection of suitably qualified external partners. This customers and improves our order opportunities with compahelps to avoid teething troubles when changes are introduced nies that pick their suppliers with a view to their responsi­ to structures and processes, as such problems could impact bility for the environment and society, among other things. on the expected cost benefits. Other business-specific risks – Other potential risks associated with the activities of our Human resources, legal aspects and IT ­employees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws, that could damage the image of KSB. We counter these risks and Risks safeguard our reputation among our customers by organising To achieve our growth and profitability business objectives, regular compliance training and through individual initiatives we need qualified employees at all our locations, including in critical regions. technical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some countries, the competition for these and other highly skilled We address maintenance and repair risks, which could result professionals is increasing, and will intensify if economic rein production downtime or health hazards for persons, by covery sets in. We counter this risk with demand-oriented monitoring them permanently. As soon as necessary refurbishmeasures, systematic human resources planning and internament work is identified, we implement the requisite measures tional recruitment processes. in good time. For instance, we are currently overhauling our heating systems and planning structural measures regarding Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on roofing at the Frankenthal site. the funded status of our pension obligations. Strong fluctuations in the evaluation of capital market interest rates to be Legal disputes cannot always be avoided within the framework paid may have a considerable impact on the Group’s earnings of our business activities. These are usually disputes arising and the equity carried on the balance sheet. To limit this risk, from operations, generally involving unclear warranty issues. we validate alternative models. If as a result of these issues we expect negative effects on the success of our business, we set aside corresponding provisions, Like all companies, KSB has to adapt to new market condiwhich cover not only the anticipated amount of loss, but also tions. We are currently implementing a global efficiency imthe costs of proceedings. To rule out a net risk, the 2017 conprovement programme, which also encompasses staff reduction solidated financial statements include about € 1 million (pre­ measures. By seeking out socially responsible solutions in the vious year: € 3 million) for those cases classified as significant areas of the company concerned and by keeping our employees or neutral risks. We have also created provisions for litigation up to date at all times, we are aiming to keep motivation with authorities and for staff matters. These amount to just high and to avoid the departure of employees from key posiunder € 3 million overall (previous year: € 2 million) to cover tions. any cases we classify as significant or neutral within our risk assessment methodology. Overall, we rate the risk from legal disputes in the financial year to be significant. 82 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to serious in general continues to be the most significant risk for us due commercial disadvantages. We limit this risk by means of to the difficulty of assessability. By contrast, we continue to ­adequate security systems and access procedures. An increased hope that our measures intended to foster growth will provide centralisation of the IT systems of our various operating us with considerable support in achieving our goals. Our units assists us in this. In this way, we implement high security customers are also often affected by recessions and more instandards and thus reduce the risk of data loss or corruption. tense competition, which can decrease their ability to pay in individual cases. Opportunities To remain successful, we need to keep seeking opportunities Negative currency changes in growth countries could threaten to optimise our services for customers, simplify processes our exports, in particular those from our European plants. and reduce costs. In this context, ideas and improvement But this would also enable our production facilities in the suggestions by employees provide key impulses. With a countries affected to benefit from such developments and view to translating such ideas into innovations, we launched to increase their export volumes. an Internet-based ideas management portal in 2017. Its aim is to generate more employee ideas and to have other portal RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION users provide their comments on or expand them. We will OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS globalise the tool, which was initially rolled out in Germany, Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its in order to use the ideas potential of our employees worldduties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by wide. the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS BY SEGMENT our business and do not conduct business of a speculative naAs in the previous year, the opportunities and risks for the ture. The aim is to ensure liquidity at all times and to finance Pumps, Valves and Service segments are most influenced by our activities under optimal conditions. With respect to our execonomic development. The future development of China port business, we hedge foreign exchange and credit risks to ­remains important to KSB . Particularly in Eastern Europe, the greatest extent possible. We continuously improve our reuncertainty regarding political risk is of great significance ceivables management methods with the goal of settling our to the Pumps and Valves segments, and to a lesser degree to outstanding amounts by their due dates. Service. Compared with the previous year, we rate the poli­ tical situation in some countries in the world to be no longer We are exposed to the following financial risks as a consematerial for the business of the KSB Group. However, politi­quence of our business activities: cal decisions on energy projects in China and the considerable strain on East / West relations continue to be significant risks On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define for us. Worsening payment morale also bears corresponding credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of conrisk potential for future business. As regards our most signi­ tractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity ficant influencing factor, the economic development, our risk risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its assessment compared with the previous year has changed in financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. that the development of the oil price is no longer a significant Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange risk for the KSB Group. We now assume that the oil price rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the ecowill not recover fully in the coming years, and we have implenomic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the mented this factor in our strategy. If the oil price were to prices of financial instruments are not material for us. ­develop better than expected, however, this would likely have positive effects on our business. The economic development CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 83 Oppo rtu n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt We use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from tum in the growth markets as well as political developments, transactions involving different currencies, These are generally however, continue to constitute risks, as described in the risk currency forwards, which we use both for transactions that situation by segments. The same applies to geopolitical instahave already been recognised and for future cash flows from bilities, decisions on sanctions and volatile currencies. Such orders still to be processed. At year end, the notional volume circumstances would have a negative effect on our business of currency forwards used to hedge exchange rate risks was volumes as well as our budgeted earnings. € 276.5 million (previous year: € 269.8 million). Foreign currency items denominated in US dollars account for the In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its major volume hedged by forwards. By strengthening our ability to match capacities and resources to the changing ­production sites worldwide, we can realise “natural” currency market conditions. For us, a solid financial position and an hedging in currency markets that continue to be volatile. efficient cost structure are vital in order to maintain our longterm competitiveness. We are convinced that we can continue To minimise interest rate risks, we concluded interest rate to successfully overcome the risks arising from the swaps to hedge cash flows from underlyings amounting to above-mentioned challenges. € 0.0 million (previous year: € 39.5 million). Underlyings and hedge transactions share the same variable interest rates and The risk management system in place as well as the related maturities (1 year). organisational measures allow the Board of Management to identify risks in a timely manner and to take adequate measWe limit all these risks through an appropriate risk manageures. In view of the somewhat uncertain situation, the focus of ment system, defining how these risks are addressed through activities in 2018 will continue to be on the management of guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the market risks. The Board of Management states that, based on current risk characteristics and continuously provide the inthe risk management system established by the KSB Group, formation obtained in this way to the Board of Management at present there are no risks that could lead to a lasting and and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised resignificant impact on the net assets, financial position and ports and individual analyses. ­results of the KSB Group. For more information on the three risk areas and the impact on the balance sheet, see the Notes, section VI. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments. OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their effects on the global mechanical engineering markets and the competition. The overall risk situation improved a little compared with the previous year. The reason for this is that we no longer rate the oil price to be a significant risk. Overall, we expect an economic performance in line with the IMF forecast for next year. Our structural measures will afford us additional support in achieving our objectives. The weakening economic momen84 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT ACQUISITION-RELATED DISCLOSURES A summary of the acquisition-related disclosures required by vided that the subscription rights do not exclude newly issued section 315(4) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German senior or pari passu preference shares. Commercial Code] is given below and explanatory information is provided pursuant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) of The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. In­Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to purchase, until formation is disclosed only to the extent that it applies to 5 May 2020, company shares of any type totalling up to KSB AG (KSB SE & Co. KGaA since 17 January). In the fol10 % of the current share capital or, if lower, of the share caplowing, only the term KSB AG will be used. ital at the time of this authorisation being exercised. The Board of Management shall be entitled to: (1) sell company KSB AG’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which shares purchased on the basis of this authorisation either on € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par-value ordinary the stock exchange or by another means that safeguards the shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par-value preference rule of equal treatment of all shareholders, for example by shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional means of an offer to all of the company’s shareholders; (2) sell amount of the share capital. All shares are bearer shares. the acquired shares of the company with the consent of They are listed for trading on the regulated market and are the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription traded in the General Standard segment of the Frankfurt rights, if the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is Stock Exchange. not materially lower than the market price for company shares of the same type and with the same features at the time of Each ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB AG’s the sale. This authorisation is limited to the sale of shares that Annual General Meeting. Some 84 % of ordinary shares are overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share held by Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal (until capital on the date on which such authorisation becomes effec4 May 2017, the company operated as Klein Pumpen GmbH), tive or, if the amount is lower, the date this authorisation is whose shares are majority-owned by KSB Stiftung [KSB Founexercised. The 10 % limit shall be reduced by the proportional dation], Stuttgart. The preference shares carry separate cuamount of share capital for shares (i) issued within the scope mulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional of a capital increase during the term of the authorisation dividend rights. Detailed information on the share capital ­excluding subscription rights pursuant to section 186(3) senand shareholders holding an interest of more than 10 % is protence 4 of the AktG or (ii) to be issued for the purpose of vided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ­servicing warrants and convertible bonds, provided that the Holders of preference shares are entitled to voting rights only bonds were issued during the term of the authorisation exin the cases prescribed by law. The issue of additional ordi­cluding subscription rights pursuant to section 186(3) sennary shares does not require the consent of the preference share­tence 4 of the AktG; (3) sell the shares with the consent of holders. Similarly, the issue of additional preference shares the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription does not require the consent of the preference shareholders prorights, to third parties for the purpose of acquiring compaCO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 85 A cqu i si ti o n -re l ate d Di sc l o su re s nies, parts thereof and/or financial interests in companies as well as within the scope of corporate mergers or (4) redeem the acquired shares without any further resolution of the ­Annual General Meeting in full or in part, including in several partial steps. The redemption may also take place without a capital reduction by adjusting the proportional amount of the other no-par-value shares in the company’s share capital. In such cases, the Board of Management shall be authorised by the Articles of Association to adjust the number of no-parvalue shares. KSB AG has not yet made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury shares. There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting ­authorising the company’s Board of Management to increase the share capital (authorised capital). In accordance with its Articles of Association, KSB AG was managed by at least two Board of Management members. The Supervisory Board decided on the appointment and termination of the mandate of members of the Board of Management in accordance with the statutory provisions. Since 17 January 2018, KSB Management SE has conducted the business of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. Under the Articles of Association, the management of KSB SE & Co. KGaA is the responsibility of the Managing Directors. Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are resolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they can be made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is formed in accordance with the regulations of the German Co-determination Act. 86 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (SECTION 315d OF THE HGB IN CONJUNCTION WITH SECTION 289f OF THE HGB) The Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289f of the HGB [German Commercial Code] in conjunction with section 315d of the HGB dated 21 March 2018 is ­accessible to the public at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Statement. In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 of the Aktiengesetz [German Public Companies Act], the ­Corporate Governance Statement includes relevant information on corporate governance practices applied at KSB SE & Co. KGaA that go beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the working methods of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the composition and working methods of the committees of the Supervisory Board. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 87 Corp o rate Go v e rn an c e S tate m e n t (S e ct i o n 3 1 5 d o f th e HGB i n C o n j u n c ti o n w ith S e c ti o n 2 8 9 f o f th e HGB ) S tatem e n t o n th e No n -fi n an c i al R e po rt (S e ct i o n s 3 1 5 b, 3 1 5 c i n C o n j u n c ti o n wi th S e ctio n s 2 8 9 b to 2 8 9 e o f th e HGB ) STATEMENT ON THE NON-FINANCIAL REPORT (SECTIONS 315b, 315c IN CONJUNCTION WITH SECTIONS 289b TO 289e OF THE HGB) The separate combined non-financial report is prepared in accordance with sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e of the HGB and disclosed together with the group management report in accordance with section 325 of the HGB. The report can be accessed at: www.non-financial-­ report2017.ksb.com 88 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT (REMUNERATION REPORT) The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied year assessment. They were partly based (60 %) on the degree when determining the remuneration arrangements for the of implementation of the corporate strategy and its actual Board of Management of KSB AG. It is prepared in accordance market success, and partly (20 %) on the return on investment with the recommendations of the German Corporate Govmeasured according to the economic value added method ernance Code (item 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration based on a past average value over a medium-term horizon. ­system in place for Board of Management members. This sysThe short-term share (20 %) was based on the development tem is geared towards sustainable corporate development. of the net financial position in the respective financial year as It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary session based compared with the planned development. The total amount on the recommendation of the Personnel Committee and of the variable remuneration components was limited in order ­reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies to individual to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. Board of Management compensation amounts. The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Manage­possibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the ment were structured as clearly and transparently as possible. discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three The total amount of remuneration for the individual Board monthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of of Management members was determined based on various any special performance of individual members of the Board parameters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the of Management. Such decisions are only made on an irregular remuneration included the responsibilities of the individual basis, meaning that they do not necessarily have to be made Board of Management members, their personal performance, annually. the economic situation, the company’s success and prospects as well as customary remuneration amounts when taking In December 2017 the Supervisory Board discussed and depeer companies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere cided to adjust the measurement bases for variable remunerawithin the company into consideration. tion as of 2018. Determination of the long-term components is now carried out on the basis of the net profit plus depreci­ The remuneration of the Board of Management consisted of ation / amortisation weighted for 3 years. The short-term share fixed and variable components. Fixed components were is measured in equal proportions based on the development granted regardless of performance and consisted of a fixed sum of the annual EBIT margin, sales revenue and success in the plus benefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, achievement of a personal goal. disability, widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum made up 60 % of the maximum annual salary and was paid out Furthermore, when Board of Management contracts are conas a monthly basic remuneration. All Board of Management cluded it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Managemembers were equally entitled to the accompanying fringe ment member in the event of his or her Board of Management benefits which included the private use of a company car, paytenure being terminated prematurely without good reason shall ment of insurance premiums and any payments associated not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including with a post-contractual non-competition clause. No loans or fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with item 4.2.3 advance payments were granted to members of the Board of the German Corporate Governance Code). No other of Management in the year under review. ­payments have been promised to any Board of Management members in the event of termination of service; similarly no To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If a the variable remuneration component consisted mainly of contract of service is terminated by a Board of Management ­future-oriented components determined on the basis of a multi-­ member for cause, the company shall not make any s­ everance CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 89 Re mu n e rati o n o f th e B o ard o f Man age m e n t payments. On 6 May 2015 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. In total, the short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to the members of the Board of Management for their activities in the 2017 financial year amounted to € 1,858 thousand (previous year: € 1,250 thousand), and the payments for benefits after termination of work € 1,422 thousand (previous year: € 1,388 thousand). € 2,934 thousand (previous year: € 5,255 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to current members of the Board of Management, and € 42,202 thousand (previous year: € 39,309 thousand) to ­former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,422 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 2,244 thousand). No stock options or other share-based payment arrangements are granted to members of the Board of Management. The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 834 thousand for the 2017 financial year (previous year: € 716 thousand). Information on the structure of the remuneration arrangements for the Supervisory Board is provided in the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289f of the HGB. Frankenthal, 21 March 2018 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors 90 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GROU P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 Balance Sheet 93 Statement of Comprehensive Income 94 Statement of Changes in Equity C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 96 Statement of Cash Flows 97 Notes 154 List of Shareholdings 158 Supervisory Board 160 Legal Representatives 161 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 92 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS BALANCE SHEET Assets € thousands Notes 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 108,054 106,596 Property, plant and equipment 2 506,214 501,606 Non-current financial assets 3 6,132 8,526 Investments accounted for using the equity method 4 22,185 24,439 Deferred tax assets 17 91,736 112,166 734,321 753,333 Current assets Inventories 5 461,877 467,437 Trade receivables and PoC 6 613,311 614,293 Other financial assets 6 116,970 186,995 Other non-financial assets 6 37,402 24,923 Cash and cash equivalents 7 289,535 288,883 Assets held for sale 2 – 14,369 1,519,095 1,596,900 2,253,416 2,350,233 Equity and liabilities € thousands Notes 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Equity 8 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 611,855 614,238 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 723,290 725,673 Non-controlling interests 162,108 164,661 885,398 890,334 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 17 14,703 12,375 Provisions for employee benefits 9 606,875 605,540 Other provisions 9 1,397 1,406 Financial liabilities 10 54,333 57,962 677,308 677,283 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 9 81,472 70,916 Other provisions 9 98,407 98,160 Financial liabilities 10 21,960 119,958 Trade payables 10 212,029 210,813 Other financial liabilities 10 81,467 89,406 Other non-financial liabilities 10 190,161 182,979 Income tax liabilities 10 5,214 9,354 Liabilities held for sale 2 – 1,030 690,710 782,616 2,253,416 2,350,233 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 93 B al an c e S h e e t S tate m e n t o f C o m pre h e n si v e I n c o m e STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Income statement € thousands Notes 2017 2016 Sales revenue 11 2.204.958 2.165.652 Changes in inventories – 49 2,948 Work performed and capitalised 5,588 5,646 Total output of operations 2,210,497 2,174,246 Other income 12 69,170 47,227 Cost of materials 13 – 887,820 – 874,156 Staff costs 14 – 796,732 – 798,750 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1, 2 – 70,593 – 72,592 Other expenses 15 – 392,414 – 372,441 Other taxes – 15,753 – 13,491 116,355 90,043 Financial income 16 6,417 6,612 Financial expense 16 – 20,106 – 20,672 Income from / expense to investments accounted for using the equity method 16 1,514 – 1,342 – 12,175 – 15,402 Earnings before income taxes 104,180 74,641 Taxes on income 17 – 52,076 – 26,864 Earnings after income taxes 52,104 47,777 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 18 14,923 14,834 Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 37,181 32,943 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 21.10 18.68 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 21.36 18.94 Statement of income and expense recognised in equity € thousands Notes 2017 2016 Earnings after income taxes 52,104 47,777 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 9 9,328 – 47,278 Taxes on income – 3,843 13,546 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in ­subsequent periods 5,485 – 33,732 Currency translation differences – 54,238 20,223 Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method – 2,225 – 157 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments 7,203 – 1,622 Taxes on income – 2,257 453 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 49,292 19,054 Other comprehensive income – 43,807 – 14,678 Total comprehensive income 8,297 33,099 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests – 62 17,836 Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 8,359 15,263 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. 94 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Subscribed capital of Capital reserve KSB SE & Co. of KSB SE & Co. € thousands KGaA KGaA 1 Jan. 2016 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increase / decrease (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2016 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital of Capital reserve KSB SE & Co. of KSB SE & Co. € thousands KGaA KGaA 1 Jan. 2017 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increase / decrease (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2017 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KGaA interests equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2016 – 61,498 – 8,496 – 69,994 Change in 2016 16,991 3,232 20,223 Balance at 31 Dec. 2016 / 1 Jan. 2017 – 44,507 – 5,264 – 49,771 Change in 2017 – 39,262 – 14,881 – 54,143 Balance at 31 Dec. 2017 – 83,769 – 20,145 – 103,914 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 95 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Equity Changes in attributable to Other Currency the fair value Remeasurement shareholders revenue translation of financial of defined of KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments benefit plans KGaA interests equity 813,771 – 61,498 – 3,342 – 139,772 720,594 149,623 870,217 – 16,991 – 1,257 – 33,414 – 17,680 3,002 – 14,678 32,943 – – – 32,943 14,834 47,777 32,943 16,991 – 1,257 – 33,414 15,263 17,836 33,099 – 9,857 – – – – 9,857 – 2,798 – 12,655 – – – – – – – – 327 – – – – 327 – – 327 – – – – – – – 836,530 – 44,507 – 4,599 – 173,186 725,673 164,661 890,334 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Equity Changes in attributable to Other Currency the fair value Remeasurement shareholders revenue translation of financial of defined of KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments benefit plans KGaA interests equity 836,530 – 44,507 – 4,599 – 173,186 725,673 164,661 890,334 – – 39,357 5,036 5,499 – 28,822 – 14,985 – 43,807 37,181 – – – 37,181 14,923 52,104 37,181 – 39,357 5,036 5,499 8,359 – 62 8,297 – 9,857 – – – – 9,857 – 2,491 – 12,348 – – – – – – – – 980 95 – – – 885 – – 885 – – – – – – – 862,874 – 83,769 437 – 167,687 723,290 162,108 885,398 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. 96 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS € thousands 2017 2016 Earnings after income taxes 52,104 47,777 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 71,445 72,592 Increase in non-current provisions 9,947 14,952 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets – 9,150 – 208 Other non-cash income / expenses 29 4,714 Cash flow 124,375 139,827 Increase in inventories – 15,725 – 11,834 Increase / Decrease in trade receivables and other assets – 21,001 51,091 Increase / Decrease in current provisions 8,231 – 8,475 Increase / Decrease in advances received from customers 15,536 – 12,161 Increase / Decrease in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 10,535 – 22,690 Other non-cash expenses (operating) – 1,260 – 1,260 – 3,684 – 5,329 Cash flows from operating activities 120,691 134,498 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 4 90 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 11,941 – 11,775 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 20,224 2,956 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 88,526 – 71,606 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 218 91 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 819 – 925 Proceeds from / payments for investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated 295 – 12,044 Proceeds from commercial papers 74,820 – Payments for commercial papers – 29,979 – 74,944 Proceeds from term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) 55,825 110,027 Payments for term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 28,447 – 55,824 Other non-cash expenses / income 165 – Cash flows from investing activities – 8,161 – 113,954 Dividends paid for prior year – Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (Notes No. 8) – 9,857 – 9,857 Dividends paid for prior year – Non-controlling interests (Notes No. 8) – 2,491 – 2,798 Payments for loan against borrower’s note – 74,500 – Payments for / Proceeds from financial liabilities – 19,150 3,044 Cash flows from financing activities – 105,998 – 9,611 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 6,532 10,933 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – 6,828 4,325 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 948 489 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 288,883 273,136 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 289,535 288,883 Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 6,139 thousand (previous year: € 6,357 thousand) and cash flows from income taxes totalling € – 40,193 thousand (previous year: € – 31,807 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities for the 2017 financial year include cash flows from dividends received of € 1,654 thousand (previous year: € 2,716 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest expense of € – 8,649 thousand (previous year: € – 7,619 thousand). See also Section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 97 S tate m e n t o f C ash F l o ws No te s NOTES I. GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE GROUP man commercial law under section 315e(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the KSB SE & Co. KGaA (formerly KSB Aktiengesellschaft), Franken­ Framework, and all Standards applicable at the reporting date thal / Pfalz, Germany, is a capital market-oriented partnership and adopted by the European Commission for use in the EU limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien] under the that are of relevance to the KSB Group, as well as the Interpre­ law of the Federal Republic of Germany. The company is reg­ tations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. For the istered with the Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, regis­ International Accounting Standards (IASs). The consolidated ­tration No. HRB 65657, and has its registered office in Franken­ financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA therefore meet the thal / Pfalz, Germany. After the reporting period, KSB Aktien­ requirements of the IFRSs as applicable in the EU. The consol­ gesellschaft changed its legal form into that of a SE & Co. KGaA idated financial statements were prepared on a going concern by entry in the German Commercial Register on 17 January basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. They were prepared using 2018. The Annual General Meeting of KSB AG adopted a reso­ the historical cost convention, with the exception of measure­ lution on 10 May 2017 on the announced change in the legal ment at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and form of the company. The general partner is KSB Management measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial SE, a European public limited company. The shares in this com­ assets and liabilities (including derivatives). Our investments in pany are wholly owned (100 %) by Klein, Schanzlin & Becker joint ventures and associates are measured using the equity GmbH, a subsidiary of the non-profit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foun­ method. dation] and the non-profit Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. KSB SE & Co. KGaA and thus the KSB Group The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar are managed via KSB Management SE, which has four Manag­ year. ing Directors and a five-member Administrative Board. The income statement as part of the statement of comprehensive In the previous year, KSB SE & Co. KGaA and its subsidiaries income has been prepared using the nature of expense method. were included in the consolidated financial statements of ­Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (formerly Klein Pumpen All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement GmbH), Frankenthal, Germany. Johannes und Jacob Klein are presented separately and explained in these Notes. GmbH, Frankenthal, is the parent company that prepares the consolidated financial statements for the largest group of com­ The main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated panies. The consolidated financial statements are published in financial statements are presented below. The policies described the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented unless stated otherwise. The KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, valves and related systems and also provides a wide range of The consolidated financial statements and the group manage­ support services to users of these products. The Group’s opera­ ment report, as well as the annual financial statements and tions are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and Service. management report of the Group’s parent company, are submit­ ted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Basis of preparation of the ­Gazette]. consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB SE The present consolidated financial statements, due to be ap­ & Co. KGaA were prepared in accordance with the Interna­ proved by the Supervisory Board on 21 March 2018, will be tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the approved for publication on 28 March 2018 by the Managing European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of Ger­ Directors of KSB Management SE. 98 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS IFRS announcement First-time application in the EU Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2014 to 2016) 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 Jan. 2018 Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 1 Jan. 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 Jan. 2018 IAS 40 Investment Property 1 Jan. 2018 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Jan. 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 1 Jan. 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment 1 Jan. 2019 IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 Jan. 2019 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2015 to 2017) 1 Jan. 2019 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 Jan. 2021 New accounting principles Three IFRS standards were amended by the Annual Improvea) Accounting principles applied for the first time ments to IFRS Standards – 2014 – 2016 Cycle, with only the in the 2017 financial year following amendment being required to be applied in 2017: The following new and revised Standards issued by the Inter­ IFRS 12 clarifies that on principle the disclosure requirements national Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to also apply to interests in subsidiaries, joint ventures and asso­ be applied for the first time in financial year 2017: ciates that are classified as held for sale as defined by the IFRSs. Exceptions are disclosures under IFRS 12.B10 – B12 (financial The amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes clarifies that writeinformation). This clarification does not have any impact on downs to a lower market value of debt instruments measured our reporting. at fair value arising from a change in market interest rates can give rise to deductible temporary differences. For clarification, b) Accounting principles that have been published but rules and examples were expanded, for example, to indicate that are not yet mandatory how future taxable income needs to be calculated in order to The following standards and revised standards issued by the capitalise deferred tax assets. IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) were not yet manda­ tory and were not applied in the 2017 financial year: The amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows aims to add IFRS announcement information that will help users of financial statements to assess changes in the entity’s liabilities from financing activities. The In May 2014, the IASB published the new IFRS 15 Revenue “Changes in cash flows from financing activities” table in Sec­ from Contracts with Customers standard. The new accounting tion VII. Statement of Cash Flows has thus been supplemented. standard, which is to be applied to financial years that begin on CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 99 No te s or after 1 January 2018, defines principles that an entity should The rules for classification of financial instruments under IFRS 9 apply when reporting on the nature, amount, timing and un­ are based on the following two criteria: the business model – certainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with hold or sell – and the type of cash flows – repayment of princi­ a customer. Sales revenue is recognised when the customer has pal or interest. Changes to the financial liabilities measured at control over the agreed goods and services and can derive ben­ fair value were fully recognised in the income statement under efits from these. It supersedes the previous IAS 11 Construction IFRS 39, while IFRS 9 requires a separate treatment. If changes Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue standards. are a result of credit risk developments, then they are to be recognised in other comprehensive income; other changes will KSB will not apply IFRS 15 early for the first time, instead be recognised in the income statement. As the Group currently deciding to initially apply the standard in the 2018 financial measures all of its financial liabilities at amortised cost, and year using the modified retrospective method. The cumulated intends to maintain this approach, no material effects on finan­ impact on earnings resulting from the transition will be recog­ cial liabilities are to be expected from the application of IFRS 9. nised directly in equity at the beginning of the comparative Based on our review, the measurement of financial assets will period. remain mostly unaffected by the changes. The focus of the Group-wide project to introduce IFRS 15, According to the new rules regarding impairment the incurred underway since 2016, has been on ensuring complete identifi­ loss model (retrospective) applied under IAS 39 is to be re­ cation of the resulting effects, training the Group companies, placed by the expected credit loss model (prospective). The creating and implementing the technical concept, and analysing standard stipulates a general 3-stage model (impairment model) the materiality of the identified effects of IFRS 15. The impact and a simplified method for determining the anticipated impair­ analysis carried out in the 2017 financial year confirmed our ment. For all financial instruments that fall within the scope of assumptions that no material effects are to be expected. the new impairment model, the calculated prospective impair­ ment needs to be recorded at the time of initial recognition We expect minimal effects for the construction contracts rec­ based on a valid future estimation. The Group intends to apply ognised using the percentage-of-completion method until the the simplified method for the measurement of trade receivables. end of the 2017 financial year. For a number of these contracts, As far as the relevant impairment losses are concerned, the the criteria laid down in IFRS 15.35 for sales revenue recogni­ Group expects an increase of approx. 1 % in relation to the cur­ tion over time were not fulfilled. This led to sales revenue being rent receivables. recognised later. At the moment, we expect reported consoli­ dated sales revenue to decrease by approx. 2 %. In the consol­ IFRS 9 also requires a calculation of expected credit loss (ECL) idated balance sheet there will be reclassifications between re­ for investments (term deposits) with a maturity of more than ceivables recognised by PoC and contractual assets under three months, investments in Euro Commercial Papers (ECP) Assets, and between advances received from customers PoC and and loans to third parties. When transitioning to IFRS 9, the contractual liabilities under Equity and Liabilities. effect of the first-time application of the standard will be taken directly to equity. Subsequent changes will be recognised in In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments profit or loss. However, we do not expect any material impact as the successor to IFRS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition in this respect. and Measurement. IFRS9 specifies revised rules for classifying and measuring financial instruments, new rules regarding the impairment of financial assets and additional rules for recog­ nising hedges. 100 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS In addition, IFRS 9 covers hedge accounting. A particular focus The amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint is on the presentation of cross-currency basis spreads as deriv­ Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements re­ ative components. KSB currently intends to use the option of move an inconsistency between the rules laid down in the excluding the forwards points and cross-currency basis spread Standards for dealing with assets being sold to an associate or component. The effects will thus be recognised directly in equity joint venture and/or the contribution of assets in an associate as “Cost of hedging reserve” under a new item in other com­ or joint venture. In future, any gain or loss arising from the loss prehensive income. We do not expect any material effects in this of control over a subsidiary that is being incorporated into a respect. joint venture or associate must be recognised in the full amount by the investor if the transaction relates to a business as defined Furthermore, any hedges need to be consistent with the objec­ in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. If, in contrast, the assets do tives and strategy of Group risk management in order to better not form a business, the gain / loss may only be recognised pro present the associated activities. It is expected that the hedge rata. On 12 October 2017, the IASB published amendments accounting relations of the Group meet all requirements of regarding accounting for long-term interests in associates and IFRS 9. joint ventures. The amendments to IAS 28 clarify that IFRS 9 is to be applied to long-term interests in associates or joint KSB will apply the IFRS 9 accounting rules for the first time in ventures that are not accounted for using the equity method. the 2018 financial year. Comparative disclosures will not be adjusted. Consequently, all differences between the carrying IFRS 16 Leases specifies the new rules on recognising, measur­ amounts of the financial instruments before and after the ap­ ing, presenting and disclosing leases. The classification into plication of IFRS 9 will be recognised in revenue reserves and operating and finance leases shall no longer apply to lessees in other reserves as of 1 January 2018. future. Pursuant to IFRS 16, all leases shall as a general rule be accounted for in the form of a right of use with corresponding The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment relate to the lease obligation. These are to be reported in separate balance accounting treatment of cash-settled share-based payment sheet items under fixed assets or liabilities, or may be described transactions. Some of the new provisions concern the calcula­ in the Notes. tion of the fair value of obligations resulting from share-based payments. As far as lessees are concerned, the new standard offers various accounting options. Leases with a term of less than 12 months The changes to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts aim to reduce the and low-value assets may be capitalised. If this option is used, impact of the differing start dates for IFRS 9 Financial Instru­ the lease will be accounted for in a comparable way to that ments and the successor standard to IFRS 4, above all for enti­ stipulated to date under IAS 17 for operating leases. A further ties with comprehensive insurance activities. simplification is provided by the option of applying the new rules to a lease portfolio, provided that the resulting effect does IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Considnot involve any significant change compared with an individu­ eration clarifies the exchange rate to be used on initial recogni­ al approach. tion for the conversion of foreign currency transactions that include the receipt or payment of advance consideration. Comprehensive qualitative and quantitative disclosures will be required in the Notes in future. IAS 40 Investment Property has been amended in order to clar­ ify that an entity may only transfer a property to or out of its investment property portfolio if there is evidence of a change of use. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 101 No te s Based on current knowledge, IFRS 16 will be applied for the In order to estimate the workload and expense for the first-time first time on a modified, retrospective basis within the KSB application and ensure the correct implementation of the stand­ Group by recording the cumulative effect from the first-time ard at the time of that first-time application, we began to im­ application in equity. On this basis, only those existing con­ plement an associated project plan in the financial year under tracts that are already classified as leases under IAS 17 will be review. This included an inventory evaluation of leases of the covered by the scope of IFRS 16. Other existing contracts need parent company KSB SE & Co. KGaA and the other Group not be reviewed to determine whether they would be covered companies / KSB companies. We have already obtained an over­ by the new standard based on the amended definitions in IFRS view of the workload and costs involved in the initial compila­ 16. For the Group, this means that the assets and liabilities for tion of contractual data in a contract management tool de­ operating leases already in place must be reported. The dis­ signed for that purpose. The analysis of the lease situation that counted residual lease payments are to be recognised as a lease has already begun will be extended in 2018 to include all con­ liability. The right of use can either be recognised at the amount tracts, and we will also create a questionnaire on IFRS 16 that that would have resulted from application of the standard at will have to be completed by every Group company. The results the start of the lease or, more simply, at the amount of the lia­ will be used to derive any further system changes required and bility (adjusted to take account of any payments before the create guidelines for correctly handling contracts after 1 Janu­ lease began). ary 2019. Appropriate changes to the reporting forms and ac­ counting instructions will also be made. Information on the current leases applicable within the Group are included in Section IX. Other Disclosures of the present Notes. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment specifies re­ Based on current information, we will be exercising the options quirements for the recognition and measurement of uncertain applicable to leases with a term of less than 12 months and low-­ income tax items. As part of the assessment of uncertainty, a value assets in such a way that we account for these leases in a company needs to evaluate whether it is probable that the tax comparable way to that stipulated to date under IAS 17 for op­ jurisdiction will accept the treatment of income taxes. erating leases. Other leases result in a balance sheet extension, which, however, will not correspond to the full scope of the The IASB has revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits with regard to operating lease volume (€ 49.7 million) presented in Section IX. plan amendment, curtailment and settlement. As of 1 January Other Disclosures. There will also be a change in the income 2019, in the event of amendment, curtailment or settlement statement, given that lease payments for operating leases cur­ related to a defined benefit pension plan, the current service cost rently reported under other expenses will in future be partially and the net interest for the remaining financial year are to be replaced with a depreciation expense for rights of use and in­ determined based on the current actuarial assumptions that terest expenses for liabilities from leases. Within the statement were used for the required remeasurement of net liabilities. of cash flows, too, the first-time application of IFRS 16 will result in shifts between the individual cash flows. However, IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts stipulates the principles governing because the redemption component of lease payments in the the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of future will be an element of cash flows from financing activities, insurance contracts within the scope of the standard. The ob­ this will result in an improvement of cash flows from operating jective is to ensure that the reporting companies provide rele­ activities. Accounting for finance leases in place will not be vant information that faithfully represents the insurance con­ affected by the new standard. tracts. 102 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the ed in the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact above-mentioned new or revised Standards or the Interpreta­ that we hold less than 50 % of the voting rights. We do, how­ tion prior to their effective dates. We do not anticipate any, or ever, have the power to determine their business and financial any material, impact on our net assets, financial position or policies and thus the level of variable returns. results of operations. Companies that were not consolidated due to there being no With regard to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue material impact are reported under financial assets – other in­ from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases, please vestments. refer to the comments in the previous sections. The following table shows the subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material subsidiaries of the KSB Group. “Seat” II. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. M aterial subsidiaries with non-controlling interests Consolidated Group In addition to KSB SE & Co. KGaA, 9 German and 73 foreign The summarised financial information regarding the KSB companies (previous year: 9 German and 79 foreign compa­ Group’s material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests is nies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest, either provided below. This information corresponds to the amounts directly or indirectly, in the voting power of these subsidiaries given in the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in ac­ which the KSB Group has the option to control under IFRS 10. cordance with IFRS prior to intercompany eliminations. S ummarised balance sheet The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the S ummarised statement of comprehensive income Indian company KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) are includ­ C ondensed statement of cash flows Material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests Non-­ controlling Earnings after income interest in taxes attributable to Accumulated Name and seat capital non-controlling interests non-controlling interests € thousands 2017 / 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 GIW Industries, Inc., USA 49.0 % 4,191 4,860 28,878 29,927 KSB Pumps Limited, India 59.5 % 4,742 4,889 53,508 53,604 KSB America Corporation, USA 49.0 % 91 245 23,736 25,062 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., China 20.0 % – 847 491 10,569 12,150 Individually immaterial fully consolidated subsidiaries with non-controlling interests 6,746 4,349 45,417 43,918 Total amount of non-controlling interests 14,923 14,834 162,108 164,661 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 103 No te s Summarised balance sheet GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands / 31 Dec. 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current assets 49,366 58,303 48,551 41,469 29,591 35,399 25,398 31,474 Current assets 55,819 62,755 101,760 95,337 54,731 57,686 137,263 149,400 Non-current liabilities – 6,643 – 6,899 – 5,223 – 3,327 – – – – Current liabilities – 20,173 – 33,687 – 56,330 – 44,527 – 25,950 – 27,931 – 113,214 – 127,922 Net assets 78,369 80,472 88,758 88,952 58,372 65,154 49,447 52,952 Summarised statement of comprehensive income GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sales revenue 127,114 134,612 127,563 109,147 – – 146,291 129,850 Earnings after income taxes 8,554 9,919 8,804 9,026 1,175 4,457 – 5,478 2,540 Other comprehensive income – 2,821 2,712 – 4,083 – 163 – 7,957 2,144 7,893 – 7,507 Comprehensive income 5,733 12,631 4,721 8,863 – 6,782 6,601 2,415 – 4,967 Other comprehensive income attribut­ able to non-controlling interests – 1,382 1,329 – 2,428 – 97 – 3,899 1,051 1,579 – 1,501 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 2,809 6,189 2,807 5,270 – 3,323 3,234 483 – 993 Dividends paid to non-controlling ­i nterests – – – 1,549 – 1,531 – – – – Condensed statement of cash flows GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities 9,577 23,570 – 3,606 7,562 1,670 3,819 9,495 9,660 Cash flows from investing activities – 664 – 6,477 – 10,354 – 8,235 1,638 – 193 – 1,112 Cash flows from financing activities – 8,856 – 18,072 – 2,867 – 2,848 2,827 – 12,257 – 9,121 – 11,203 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 57 – 979 – 16,827 – 3,521 6,135 – 8,438 567 – 2,655 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 180 1,169 28,241 31,707 14,849 22,956 2,292 5,301 Effects of exchange rate changes – 25 – 10 – 1,150 54 – 2,156 332 – 301 – 355 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 212 180 10,264 28,240 18,828 14,850 2,558 2,291 104 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd and company (KSB Shanghai Precision Casting Co., Ltd.) in the KSB PHILIPPINES, INC., previously not consolidated due to previous year. 95 % of the interest held in the company, which there being no material impact, were included in the group of at the time was classified as being held for sale, was sold with­ consolidated companies on 1 January 2017. These affiliates, in the reporting period, with a remaining share of 5 %. which were consolidated for the first time, were established some years earlier. First-time consolidations contributed The Danish company T. Smedegaard A/S, Glostrup and the Chi­ € 3,669 thousand to sales revenue and also had the following nese company KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai, were impact on the consolidated balance sheet: liquidated in the financial year. First-time consolidations – Impact on balance sheet We sold our valves business in the USA, operated KSB AMRI Inc., Houston, in the financial year. € thousands 2017 Non-current assets – 659 In December 2017 we purchased 51 % of the shares in Pumpen Current assets 2,624 Partner Netzwerk UG. Due to reasons of materiality the com­ Assets 1,965 pany will not be consolidated. Equity – 885 Non-current liabilities – The impact of the above changes on the consolidated financial Current liabilities 2,850 statements was not material. Equity and liabilities 1,965 A full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is pro­ vided at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Other effects resulting from the consolidation of companies Statements. were not material. Consolidation methods With effect from 1 January 2017, the previously fully consoli­ For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercom­ dated service companies KSB Service Est S.A.S., Algrange, and pany transactions are eliminated in full. Any receivables and lia­ Service Centre-Est S.A.S., Villefranche-sur-Saône, were merged bilities between the consolidated companies are offset against with KSB S.A.S. in France, which has its head office in Genne­ each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recognised in villiers and is also fully consolidated. The two previously fully fixed assets and inventories are eliminated. Any revenues from consolidated service companies KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC intercompany sales are offset against the corresponding expenses. S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône, and KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône, were merged, with effect from 1 January Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting 2017, with Rambervillers-based KSB Service Energie S.A.S.U., pursuant to IFRS 3. This means that the acquisition cost of the which is also fully consolidated. parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the remeasured equity attributable to the parent at the date of ac­ With effect from 1 January 2017, the previously fully consoli­ quisition. dated company KSB Válvulas Ltda., Jundiaí, was merged with KSB BRASIL LTDA., which has its head office in Várzea Pau­ Any goodwill created from the application of the purchase lista (Brazil) and is also fully consolidated. method denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the KSB Group is measured at the relevant current In China, we had already transferred the foundry operations of closing rate. Goodwill is reported under intangible assets and KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, to a new, independent tested for impairment at least once a year. If an impairment is CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 105 No te s identified, an impairment loss is recognised. Any excess of our equity in other comprehensive income and reported under cur­ interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost re­ rency translation differences. They amount to € – 103,914 thou­ maining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss in the sand (previous year: € – 49,771 thousand). The effect of currency year it occurred. translation adjustments taken directly to equity on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and financial assets was Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB SE a loss of € 25,689 thousand (previous year: gain of € 8,827 & Co. KGaA are reported as non-controlling interests. thousand). Exchange rates for the most important currencies Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of III. ACCOUNTING POLICIES euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Acquisition and production costs Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes at­ currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, tributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Pur­ company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, econom­ chase price reductions are deducted from cost. ically and organisationally independent entity. In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated includes production-related administrative expenses. General at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabili­ ties are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Measure­ Borrowing costs as defined in IAS 23 that can be directly allo­ ment effects are recognised in the income statement. cated to the acquisition or production of qualifying assets are capitalised from 2009. As in the previous year no such borrow­ When translating financial statements of consolidated compa­ ing costs were incurred. nies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts Fair value and cash flow statement items are translated at average annual Fair value is the price that independent market participants exchange rates (modified closing rate method). Gains and losses would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to Exchange rates for the most important currencies Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 2017 2016 US dollar 1.1993 1.0541 1.1292 1.1067 Brazilian real 3.9729 3.4305 3.6041 3.8606 Indian rupee 76.6055 71.5935 73.4887 74.3500 Chinese yuan 7.8044 7.3202 7.6257 7.3494 106 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is directly which the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications observable or has been estimated using a measurement method. carried out in the year under review. The KSB Group defined a monitoring framework concept for Financial instruments determining fair value. This includes a measurement team with A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a general responsibility for monitoring all key measurements at financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity fair value and notifying management and, if necessary, the Audit instrument of another enterprise. Committee of any major issues. For the purposes of calculating fair value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the market participants or estimates derived from these. In a first consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a step we regularly review the extent to which there are current party to a financial instrument. When the contractual right to prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-­ Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the con­ based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or tractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives future value by discounting future cash surpluses). are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and Based upon the input factors used in the measurement methods, monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial fair values are assigned to different levels of the fair value hier­ liabilities (from or to third parties as well as affiliates and equity archy. investments). Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for a) Primary financial instruments identical assets and liabilities Within the KBS Group, primary financial instruments are allo­ Level 2: Measurement parameters that are not the quoted cated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: prices taken into account for level 1, but that are observable for the asset or the liability either directly Loans and Receivables (LaR) as a price or indirectly derived from prices Loans and financial assets not quoted in an active market Level 3: M easurement parameters for assets or liabilities that Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost (FLAC ) are not based on observable market data Liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables If input factors categorised into different levels are included Available-for-Sale (AfS) financial assets in the fair value measurement, the measurement must be cate­ Non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to gorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input any other measurement category, such as investments in factor that is material for the entire measurement. non-consolidated subsidiaries or securities We record reclassifications between different levels in the fair None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-­ value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during maturity investments”. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 107 No te s Financial instruments are carried at fair value on initial recog­ In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the nition, while LaR and FLAC take into account the transaction effective portions of the currency derivatives are recognised un­ costs. Subsequent measurement is based on fair value for cate­ der other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes gory AfS and on amortised cost for categories LaR and FLAC. in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity for as long Subsequent measurement of the LaR and FLAC categories is as the underlying transaction is not recognised in the income based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. The statement. fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting Changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives used to date. hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised un­ der other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes Primary financial instruments classified as “available-for-sale in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity in other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on value of financial instruments”. They are recognised in profit the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or loss when the assets are sold or deemed to be other-than-tem­ or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive porarily impaired. If an asset is derecognised, the accumulated or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income state­ have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instru­ ment. ment. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the re­ As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications porting date. All our information is obtained from recognised between the individual measurement categories. external sources. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. Currency forwards and interest rate swaps are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscella­ b) Derivative financial instruments neous other liabilities. We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both future cash flows and existing recognised underlyings against As in the previous year, maturities of the currency derivatives foreign currency and interest rate risks (cash flow hedges). The used are mostly between one and two years; there are no inter­ hedging instruments used are exclusively currency forwards, est rate derivatives for the financial year in the Group. The currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for trans­ in which the forecast transactions are expected to occur. In the actions in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised year under review, almost all hedged forecast transactions for long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. Group occurred as expected. guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transac­ tions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. 108 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Intangible assets ment-specific circumstances. The Group regularly tests good­ Intangible assets are carried at (acquisition or production) cost will for impairment in the fourth quarter based on the figures and reduced by straight-line amortisation. Depreciation / amor­ as per 30 September of the year in question. tisation is reported under “Depreciation and amortisation ex­ pense” in the income statement. The underlying useful lives of As part of the assessment, the Group conducts sensitivity anal­ intangible assets – excluding goodwill (indefinite useful life) – is yses to estimate the risk of impairment. The following assump­ between two and five years. If the reasons for an impairment tions are used in the process: a 5 % increase in the cost of loss in a previous period no longer apply, it is reversed (writecapital (Sensitivity 1), a 0.25 % reduction in the growth rate up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. (Sensitivity 2) and a reduction in sales revenue with the corre­ sponding impact on expense items and performance indicators We test goodwill for impairment once a year. This relates to (Sensitivity 3). Sensitivity 3 is only applied to the most impor­ cash-generating units (CGU), which at KSB are generally the tant goodwills of the KSB Group. legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the If the recoverable amount is calculated as the fair value less lowest level on which we monitor goodwill. The goodwill (and, costs to sell, the costs to sell are, based on past experience, set if necessary, other assets) is reduced by the difference in value at a maximum of 2 % of the fair value. For the purposes of if the recoverable amount – the higher of the fair value less costs calculating value, we make use wherever possible of estimates to sell and the value in use – is lower than the carrying amount from market participants (Level 1) or estimates derived from of the CGU . Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier these (Level 2). In the absence of any market estimates, we period is not possible. In addition, a review of impairment is make use of experience-based assumptions of the management always carried out when events or circumstances (“trigger (Level 3). In a first step we review the extent to which there are events”) suggest that the value could be impaired. current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the re­ market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market coverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multi­ accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year pliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value financial plan (generally covering a maximum of five years), the as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). basis of which was adopted in December taking into account the medium-term strategy approved by management for the When acquiring companies we apply purchase price allocations respective cash-generating unit. We carried out this planning and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities ac­ based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both quired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recog­ forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineer­ nised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related ing Federation (VDMA ) publications, and our own experi­ aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and competitive res­ ence-based knowledge of markets and competitors. In our cal­ trictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, culations we consistently extrapolated the result of the last plan customer relations and orders on hand), contract-related year as a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, pur­ long term. We derived growth rates taking account of the rate chasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related of inflation and estimates with regard to regional and seg­ aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 109 No te s determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, Leases the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. IAS 17 defines a lease as an arrangement under which a lessor provides a lessee with the right to use an asset for an agreed Development costs are capitalised as internally generated intan­ period of time in exchange for a payment. A lease is classified gible assets at cost where the criteria described in IAS 38 are as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and met and reduced by straight-line amortisation at the time of rewards incident to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise, such their capitalisation. Research costs are expensed as incurred. transactions are classified as operating leases. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably dis­ tinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Property, plant and equipment In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation over the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liabil­ its useful life. If an asset’s recoverable amount is lower than ity is recognised in the same amount for the future lease pay­ its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. If the ment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation reasons for an impairment loss recognised in a previous peri­ over its useful life or the shorter lease term. od no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. Non-current financial assets Interest-bearing loans and investments in non-consolidated sub­ Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment sidiaries are measured at amortised cost. Financial instruments are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to Investments accounted for using the equity method be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect Investments accounted for using the equity method are compa­ that these periods will be complied with. nies in which the parties exercise joint control (joint venture) or have the power to exercise significant influence over the Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the companies’ operating and financial policies (associate); this is period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the usually the case where an entity holds between 20 % and 50 % expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. of the voting power. These assets are recognised at cost at the time of acquisition. If the costs of acquisition exceed the share The following useful lives are applied: of the net assets, adjustments are made on the basis of the fair value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The remaining Useful lives of property, plant and equipment amount is recorded as goodwill. It forms part of the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate and is not amortised. Buildings 10 to 50 years For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are in­ Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years creased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnings, distributed Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years dividends or other changes in equity of the joint venture or the 110 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS associate. If local accounting principles differ from the account­ Construction contracts under IAS 11 ing methods used in the Group, we make the necessary adjust­ In the case of construction contracts covered by IAS 11, we ments. The share of earnings is reported in the consolidated apply the percentage of completion (PoC) method. According income statement in a separate line (earnings from investments to this method, a production order is a contract for the custom­ accounted for using the equity method), and changes such as er-specific production of individual items or a number of items currency translation effects are taken directly to Group equity. that, in terms of their design, technology and function or with If the losses attributable to the KSB Group correspond to the regard to their use, are linked to one another or dependent on carrying amount of the company or exceed this, they are not each other. If the earnings from a production order can be reli­ recognised unless KSB has entered into obligations or has made ably estimated, we recognise the revenue based on the percent­ payments for the company. Intercompany gains and losses from age of completion method. The percentage of completion of transactions between Group companies and investments ac­ contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that counted for using the equity method are offset against the car­ contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting rying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date we review date bear to the estimated total contract costs at the reporting whether there are any objective indications of impairment, and date. Contract revenue consists of all contractually agreed rev­ calculate the amount of such impairment if required. If the enues, as well as additional claims and incentive payments that carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of an invest­ are likely to result in revenue and are capable of being reliably ment, it is written down to the recoverable amount. Any im­ measured. Contract revenue may vary from one period to the pairments or reversals of impairments are reported in the con­ next, for instance because of cost escalation clauses, variations solidated income statement under financial income / expense. or penalties. It is measured at the fair value received or receiv­ able. If the earnings from a production order cannot be reliably Inventories estimated, revenue will only be recognised in the amount of the Pursuant to IAS 2, inventories are carried at the lower of cost contract costs incurred that are likely to be covered and the and net realisable value as at the reporting date. Cost is meas­ contract costs recognised as an expense for the period in which ured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the they are incurred. net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also The percentage contract revenue less the related advances re­ applies if the selling price is lower than production cost plus ceived from customers is reported – depending on the balance costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss – in trade receivables and PoC or within other financial liabil­ charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment ities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income state­ loss is reversed (write-up). ment as part of sales revenue. Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here Trade receivables and other current assets because of the correlation and expected realisation of these Trade receivables and other current assets are subsequently car­ advances (through conversion into inventories) within the nor­ ried at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing mal business cycle. Advances received from customers are rec­ receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of ognised as current liabilities. identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs using allow­ ance accounts. Receivables that are not individually impaired are subdivided into risk classes according to how overdue they CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 111 No te s are, and written down on a portfolio basis using historical de­ assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets fault rates. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS fi­ previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed nancial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. (write-up). We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are section). also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always off­ The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure set where they relate to the same tax authority. Changes to de­ prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an ferred taxes in the consolidated balance sheet generally result in expense after the reporting date. deferred tax expense or income. If, however, a direct entry is made in other comprehensive income in equity, the change in deferred Cash and cash equivalents taxes is also taken directly to equity. Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (shortterm, highly liquid financial investments that are readily con­ Provisions vertible to defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations only immaterial fluctuations in terms of their value) are rec­ Provisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to IAS ognised at amortised cost. 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. They are measured using Assets held for sale the projected unit credit method. Pursuant to IFRS 5, non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if it is highly likely that the carrying Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to other compre­ amount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and not hensive income and reported in equity under “Remeasurement through continued use of that asset. It must be assumed that of defined benefit plans”. The actuarial demographic assump­ the sale will be completed within one year. If the Group is com­ tions and the setting of the discount rate (based on senior, mitted to a sale that involves loss of control of a subsidiary, all fixed-income corporate bonds) and other measurement param­ assets and liabilities of that subsidiary will be classified as held eters (for example income and pension trends) are based on best for sale, provided the above conditions are met. The intangible estimates. assets and property, plant and equipment of the held-for-sale assets are no longer amortised / depreciated, but instead are rec­ Net interest is calculated by multiplying the discount rate with ognised at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less the net liability (pension obligation minus plan assets) or the costs to sell. net asset value that results if the plan assets exceed the pension obligation. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes in accordance with IAS 12 using The defined benefit costs include the service cost, which is in­ the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or cluded in staff costs under pension costs, and the net interest substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax income or expense on the net liability or net realisable value, 112 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS which is recognised in financial income / expense under interest ent obligations that arise from past events where it is possible and similar expenses or under interest and similar income. but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recog­ Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at nised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the the reporting date. staff costs. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, these companies have no further obligations. Consequently, the in­ Income and expenses surance risk remains with the insured parties. Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers. This relates to revenue from the sale of b) Other provisions goods and goods purchased and held for resale from the pro­ Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present duction, sale and trade of machinery, systems and other indus­ legal or constructive external obligation that the company has trial products, particularly pumps and valves. In addition, sales no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obli­ revenue from services and licence income is reported under gation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying sales revenue for the period concerned in accordance with the economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be economic content of the underlying contract. Sales revenue is estimated reliably. The amount of the provision corresponds to recognised pursuant to IAS 18 when the deliveries have been the best estimate of the settlement amount of the current obli­ effected or the services have been rendered and the significant gation on the reporting date. Any more or less secure recourse risks and rewards associated with ownership have thus been or reimbursement claims are recognised as separate assets. transferred to the customer. At the time of revenue recognition, receipt of the consideration must be probable and the amount Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria of sales revenue must be reliably measurable. A reliable estima­ set out in IAS 37 are met. tion of the associated costs and potential return of the goods must also be possible. We essentially recognise sales revenue Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are mate­ from the delivery of standard products upon handover to the rial. carrier. For some international deliveries, the contractual risk transfer takes place when the goods are loaded onto a cargo Financial liabilities ship in the port or delivered to the customer in the destination Financial liabilities are recognised with their amortised costs country. In these cases, sales revenue is recognised on the basis using the effective interest rate method. of the contractually agreed INCOTERMS. For certain deliver­ ies and services, a declaration of acceptance by the customer is Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) required for the recognition of sales revenue. Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence In individual cases and under strict conditions, sales revenue is will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of recognised prior to delivery of the goods (so-called bill and hold uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be pres­ arrangements). CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 113 No te s Sales revenue for customer-specific construction contracts is ously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If reported using the percentage of completion method. We use more recent information and additional knowledge are availa­ the so-called cost-to-cost method, according to which the pro­ ble, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circum­ ceeds determined at the beginning of the sales order are com­ stances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result pared with the estimated costs, and the sales revenue of a period in material differences are explained separately. is determined according to the percentage of completion meas­ ured on the basis of the costs incurred; see the explanations on Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least “Construction contracts under IAS 11”. once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts for each cash-generating unit (CGU). These correspond to the Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are Interest income and expense are recognised in the period in affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate which they occur. fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations for the economic development of these units. Although manage­ Dividend income from investments is collected when the legal ment believes that the assumptions used to calculate the recov­ entitlement to payment is created. erable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. Operating expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent Income taxes are calculated in accordance with the statutory there are indications of an impairment. When determining the tax rules in the countries in which the Group operates. Deferred recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the esti­ taxes are accounted for on the basis of the enacted or substan­ mation of the relevant useful life is subject to uncertainty. The tively enacted income tax rates. measurement of doubtful receivables is based on forecasts about the creditworthiness of customers. A material change in the Estimates and assumptions assumptions or circumstances can lead in future to additional The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accord­ impairment losses or reversals. ance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting For construction contracts with clients in the project business we policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting pol­ recognise sales revenue according to the percentage of completion icies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, in­ method. This requires estimates regarding the total contract costs come and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial and revenue, contract risks as well as other relevant factors. These statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assump­ estimates are reviewed regularly by those with operative respon­ tions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors sibility and adjusted where necessary. deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continu­ 114 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles actual tax obligation will differ from our original estimate. With which are based on statistical and other factors so as to anticipate regard to future tax benefits, we assess their realisability as of future events. Material factors are the reported market discount every reporting date. For this reason, we only recognise deferred rates and life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions made may tax assets if sufficient taxable income is available in future. In differ from actual developments as a result of changing market assessing this future taxable income within a planning horizon of and economic conditions, and this can have material effects on normally five years it must be taken into account that expected the amount of provisions and thus on the company’s overall net future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are assets, financial position and results of operations. in some cases excluded from control by company management (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If we come to Other provisions are reported based on the best possible estimate the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax assets cannot of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outflow be realised because of changed assumptions, then the assets will can, however, differ from the estimate as a result of changed eco­ be written down by the appropriate amount. nomic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in ad­ ditional expenses or income from reversals. Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. The global scope of our activities must be taken into account in relation to taxes on income. Based on our operative activities in Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for determin­ months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to ing our tax obligations. Uncertainty may arise due to different the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. An operating cycle of more interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local fi­ than 12 months typically applies to made-to-order production nance authorities on the other. Uncertain tax assets and liabilities (construction contracts). are recognised if their probability of occurrence exceeds 50 %. For the reporting, the best estimate is based on the expected Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. tax payment. Although we believe we have made a reasonable CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 115 No te s IV. BALANCE SHEET DISCLOSURES Intangible 1 assets Statement of changes in intangible assets Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Intangible assets € thousands such rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 71,167 61,708 104,189 103,910 15,781 8,550 191,137 174,168 Changes in consolidated Group 28 2 – 135 – – 28 137 Currency translation adjustments – 2,014 700 – 813 482 – – – 2,827 1,182 Other –6 6,502 – – 338 – – –6 6,164 Additions 2,767 2,519 – – 9,692 7,520 12,459 10,039 Disposals 285 726 166 – – 14 451 740 Reclassifications 226 1,061 – – – 162 – 275 64 786 Reclassification to assets held for sale – – 599 – – – – – – 599 Balance at 31 December 71,883 71,167 103,210 104,189 25,311 15,781 200,404 191,137 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 57,294 51,032 27,247 21,061 – – 84,541 72,093 Currency translation adjustments – 1,441 605 – 132 46 – – – 1,573 651 Other –6 2,089 –1 – 338 – – –7 1,751 Additions 4,114 4,447 5,556 6,478 – – 9,670 10,925 Disposals 281 650 – – – – 281 650 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – Reclassification to assets held for sale – – 229 – – – – – – 229 Balance at 31 December 59,680 57,294 32,670 27,247 – – 92,350 84,541 Carrying amount at 31 December 12,203 13,873 70,540 76,942 25,311 15,781 108,054 106,596 The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 12.5 mil­ As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development lion (previous year: € 10.0 million) primarily concerned, as costs in the financial year because not all of the comprehen­ in the previous year, advance payments and own work capi­ sive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. The talised for a new software to be deployed in Sales. “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and as­ 116 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS sets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” item includes Discount rates € 8.3 million (previous year: € 9.3 million) of software includ­ ing software licences valid for a limited period. As in the pre­ Before taxes in % (value in use) 2017 2016 vious year, there are no restrictions on ownership or use. Companies in Germany 8.7 – 8.8 8.5 – 8.6 Companies in The Netherlands 8.3 8.1 The carrying amounts of the cash-generating units in connec­ Companies in the USA 9.7 9.1 tion with the impairment testing of goodwill do not contain Companies in South Africa 12.2 12.8 any items relating to taxes or financing activities. Companies in the rest of Europe 8.2 – 13.8 8.3 – 14.5 To determine the discount factor, the weighted average cost After taxes in % of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the (fair value less costs to sell) 2017 2016 capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a Companies in South Korea 7.3 7.3 peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is de­ termined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in Goodwill accordance with the capital structure taking account of the peer group. This peer group information includes things like Name of CGU / € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 beta factors, capital structure data and borrowing costs. The KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea 21,665 27,432 peer group includes companies that are similar to the KSB DP industries B.V., The Netherlands 18,285 18,285 Group in terms of industry, size and activity. To account for Société de travaux et Ingénierie changes in market parameters, the composition of the peer Industrielle (ST II ), France 5,689 5,689 group is reviewed at regular intervals and adjusted if neces­ Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 sary (e.g. changes in the business model of either the company, Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Germany 2,980 2,980 the cash-generating unit or the comparable company being KSB Finland Oy, Finland 2,603 2,603 looked at). This year’s review resulted in an adjustment of the KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., South Africa 2,010 2,059 peer group. KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , France* 1,412 1,412 57,794 63,610 The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a Other 16 (previous year: 16) companies 12,746 13,332 base rate. This rate was 1.25 % in the year under review (pre­ Total 70,540 76,942 vious year: 0.5 %). The market risk premium was set at * Merged with KSB Service Energie S.A.S.U. in the financial year 5.75 %, which was unchanged on the previous year, with a beta factor of 0.94 (previous year: 1.06). In addition, coun­ try-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken As part of the regular review, the peer group was adjusted based into account individually for each cash-generating unit on updated findings regarding the business models of the com­ (CGU). As in the previous year, we applied growth rates of parable companies. The change in the peer group also resulted between 0.75 % and 1.25 %. in a change to the weighted capital cost factor. The adjustment only had a material impact on the goodwill of KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan, South Korea, with a change in the discount factor after taxes from 7.9 % to 7.3 %. I mpairment loss on goodwill CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 117 No te s Impairment loss on goodwill Recoverable amount Impairment loss Name of CGU Segment Discount factor € thousands € thousands KSB Seil Co. Ltd., Busan, South Korea Valves 7.3 % 41,662 5,556 Total 31 Dec. 2017 5,556 REEL s.r.l., Italy Pumps 13.5 % 2,412 5,526 KSB , Inc. – Western Division ( USA ) Service 9.1 % – 952 Total 31 Dec. 2016 6,478 According to an assessment by management, the impairment of the cash-generating unit was the result of a significant delay in the recovery in the shipbuilding market that was longer than forecast in previous years. The impairment loss will be reported in the income statement under “Depreciation and amortisation expense”. Detailed information on key goodwill items Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing Cash-generating goodwill of total Growth Underlying assumptions, the value of the unit Method € millions goodwill Discount rate rate corporate planning ­u nderlying assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Fair value less 21.7 31 % 7.3 % 1.00 Slower recovery in the Consideration of macro-­ costs to sell after taxes shipbuilding sector than economic key data and (costs to sell of expected external market research € 250 thousand) Little change in exchange rates DP industries B.V. Value in use 18.3 26 % 8.3 % 1.25 Low to significant Consideration of macro-­ before taxes ­market growth rates economic key data and internal estimates of the relevant purchasing and sales departments 118 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Basic assumptions for goodwill considered material Cash-generating unit Order intake Sales revenue EBIT Planning time horizon KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Slowly improving growth, Slowly improving growth, Slowly improving growth, 7 years on average on average on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning DP industries B.V. Constant growth, on average Constant growth, on average Moderate growth, 5 years on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning For the annual impairment test, the assumptions presented in the servable market data (base interest rate) or freely accessible “Basic assumptions for goodwill considered material” table information (for example sovereign risk classification, tax rates, were made regarding the development of order intake, sales procurement prices, sales prices, market studies). revenue and operating earnings for goodwill deemed to be material. As well as impairment testing, sensitivity analyses were con­ B asic assumptions for goodwill considered material ducted for each cash-generating unit. These only increased the impairment loss for KSB Seil Co., Ltd. (Sensitivity 1: € 7.5 mil­ The business performance of KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is closely linked lion; Sensitivity 2: € 6.6 million; Sensitivity 3: € 8.0 million). to the economic development of the long-cycle shipbuilding No additional impairment loss would have resulted for a fur­ industry. This is also documented in the market development ther cash-generating unit. studies from external sources we used, which contain forecasts for the next seven years. Correspondingly, we have selected a Before adjusting the peer group, an impairment loss of € 10.4 monitoring period of seven years instead of our commonly used million would have been incurred (Sensitivity 1: € 13.8 million, five-year period for impairment testing of this cash-generating Sensitivity 2: € 11.5 million, Sensitivity 3: € 11.4 million); this unit. would have primarily affected KSB Seil Co. Ltd. (South Korea). For the purposes of calculating the fair value less costs to sell As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment of the South Korean KSB Seil Co., Ltd., the input factors used losses on other intangible assets in the reporting year. for the discounted cash flow method are largely based on ob­ CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 119 No te s 2 Property, plant and equipment Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant Plant and operating and and assets under and equipment € thousands Land and buildings machinery office equipment construction Total Historical cost 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 372,075 344,473 583,604 551,208 215,203 212,750 31,049 53,791 1,201,931 1,162,222 Changes in consolidated Group 149 10 605 12 132 102 – – 886 124 Currency translation adjustments – 13,032 5,482 – 20,397 6,873 – 7,892 2,878 – 1,813 92 – 43,134 15,325 Other – 68 6 – 2,073 – 2,586 –8 – – 445 –2 Additions 18,226 10,888 29,041 21,113 21,762 16,599 20,402 23,554 89,431 72,154 Disposals 3,989 529 10,596 12,165 10,972 17,789 23 156 25,580 30,639 Reclassifications 8,226 19,651 12,970 23,921 4,284 1,874 – 25,544 – 46,232 – 64 – 786 Reclassification to assets held for sale – – 7,906 – – 7,358 – – 1,203 – – – – 16,467 Balance at 31 December 381,587 372,075 593,154 583,604 225,103 215,203 24,071 31,049 1,223,915 1,201,931 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 153,019 146,566 394,668 372,554 152,638 149,271 – – 700,325 668,391 Currency translation adjustments – 3,962 801 – 11,936 4,266 – 5,449 2,286 – – – 21,347 7,353 Other – 603 – – 2,161 2 2,641 – 40 – – – 123 – 38 Additions 10,466 8,832 31,910 34,178 18,547 18,657 – – 60,923 61,667 Disposals 2,132 273 9,581 11,201 10,364 16,600 – – 22,077 28,074 Reclassifications – 333 – – 796 – 1,129 – – – – – Reclassification to assets held for sale – – 2,907 – – 5,131 – – 936 – – – – 8,974 Balance at 31 December 156,455 153,019 402,104 394,668 159,142 152,638 – – 717,701 700,325 Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 225,132 219,056 191,050 188,936 65,961 62,565 24,071 31,049 506,214 501,606 Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed as­ In December 2017, 95 % of the interest in the Chinese company sets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial KSB Shanghai Precision Casting Co., Ltd., Shanghai (Pumps liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capital­ segment) was sold, with a remaining share of 5 %. ised assets amounts to € 1,382 thousand (previous year: € 2,022 thousand), of which € 429 thousand (previous year: € 918 The property of our Australian company classified as held for thousand) relate to land and buildings, € 13 thousand (previous sale in the previous year, which is assigned to the Pumps seg­ year: € 123 thousand) to plant and machinery and € 940 thou­ ment, was sold in the second half of 2017. sand (previous year: € 981 thousand) to other equipment, op­ erating and office equipment. 120 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS We also divested the valves business of the US company KSB Other investments are investments in non-consolidated affili­ AMRI, Inc., Houston, in late January 2017. ates that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact. Write-downs on other investments amounted to € 850 Income from the sale of assets and liabilities presented as held thousand (previous year: none). € 186 thousand of the loans for sale in the previous year totalled € 9.3 million and were are loans to equity investments (previous year: none). recognised in other income. Of that, € 1.3 million relate to KSB Shanghai Precision Casting Co., Ltd., Shanghai, € 5.3 million 4 Investments accounted for using the equity method to the property in Australia and € 2.7 million to the valves business of the US company KSB AMRI, Inc., Houston, Texas. The table below lists the KSB Group’s material joint ventures. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is per­ Disposals of intangible assets and items of property, plant and formed. All joint ventures and associates are accounted for us­ equipment resulted in book gains of € 12,319 thousand (previ­ ing the equity method and can also be found in the list of share­ ous year: € 1,478 thousand) and book losses of € 3,169 thou­ holdings in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial sand (previous year: € 1,270 thousand). The book gains and Statements. The share of capital corresponds to the share of losses are reported in the income statement under other income voting rights. and other expenses. M aterial joint ventures We did not recognise any impairment losses on property, plant Neither of the two joint ventures included in the table below and equipment (previous year: € 3.757 thousand). is listed on a stock market; there is therefore no available active market value. 3 Non-current financial assets Summarised financial information on the material joint ventures € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 of the KSB Group is provided below. Other investments 2,985 5,401 S ummarised balance sheet Non-current financial instruments 657 667 S ummarised statement of comprehensive income Loans 2,490 2,458  econciliation to carrying amount of group share in R 6,132 8,526 joint ventures S  ummarised information on joint ventures that are immaterial individually Material joint ventures Name and seat Capital share Nature of the entity’s relationship KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., 50.00 % KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, offers a wide range of services and activities for the energy marSaudi Arabia ket as well as in water, waste water and building services applications. The portfolio includes business development and marketing, supply chain management, production of pressure booster systems and pump sets, sale of pumps, valves and systems and technical service activities. KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. is important for the growth of the Group in the Saudi Arabian market. Shanghai Electric-KSB 45.00 % Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. in Shanghai, China, produces suitable auxiliary pumps Nuclear Pumps and Valves for the secondary coolant circuits and modern reactor coolant pumps for the primary cooling circuits of nuclear Co., Ltd., China power stations. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. is a strategic partnership on the part of the Group, through which KSB is participating in the expansion of energy capacity in China and other Asian markets. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 121 No te s Summarised balance sheet Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Non-current assets 9,958 4,051 79,251 90,404 Current assets 36,141 43,248 102,249 86,062 of which cash and cash equivalents 157 5,093 7,116 7,569 Non-current liabilities – 4,619 – 7,583 – 35,836 – 39,238 of which non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 3,334 – 6,336 – – Current liabilities – 26,193 – 20,779 – 116,777 – 107,448 of which current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 4,989 – 3,650 – 37,227 – 40,649 Net assets 15,287 18,937 28,887 29,780 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sales revenue 39,056 38,387 53,331 29,841 Depreciation / amortisation 590 290 4,223 3,758 Interest income 11 – 35 18 Interest expense – 608 – 418 – 2,617 – 2,833 Earnings from continuing operations 1,872 3,074 1,569 – 6,164 Taxes on income – 680 – 1,109 – 592 – 934 Earnings after taxes from continuing operations 1,192 1,965 977 – 7,098 Earnings after taxes from discontinued operations – – – – Other comprehensive income – 2,941 549 – 1,870 – 1,384 Comprehensive income – 1,749 2,514 – 893 – 8,482 Dividends received from joint ventures 951 1,969 – – Reconciliation to carrying amount of group share in joint ventures Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net carrying amount at 1 January 18,938 20,361 29,780 38,262 Earnings after income taxes 1,192 1,965 977 – 7,098 Distribution of dividends – 1,902 – 3,937 – – Other comprehensive income – 2,941 549 – 1,870 – 1,384 Net carrying amount at 31 December 15,287 18,938 28,887 29,780 Investment in joint venture (50 % / 45 %) 7,643 9,469 12,999 13,401 Elimination of intercompany profit and loss – – – 2,969 – 3,058 Goodwill – – – – Carrying amount at 31 December 7,643 9,469 10,030 10,343 122 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Summarised information on joint ventures that are immaterial individually Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total € thousands 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Group share of earnings from continuing operations 211 583 794 266 524 790 Group share of other comprehensive income – 460 – – 460 107 – 107 Group share of comprehensive income – 249 583 334 383 524 907 Total carrying amounts of Group shares in these companies 3,347 1,165 4,512 3,595 1,032 4,627 As in the previous year, there are no pro rata losses that have  6 Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial not been recognised from the consolidation at equity. and non-financial assets  rade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and T Inventories 5 non-financial assets € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 There were impairment losses on trade receivables from third Raw materials, consumables parties of € 33,995 thousand (previous year: € 34,530 thou­ and supplies 162,577 168,455 sand) and on receivables from other investments of € 839 thou­ Work in progress 161,394 179,859 sand (previous year: € 2,627 thousand). Impairment losses on Finished goods and goods purchased receivables from loans to other equity investments amounted and held for resale 121,421 100,534 to € 3,127 (previous year: € 3,656). There were no impairment Advance payments 16,485 18,589 losses on receivables from joint ventures or associates, as in the 461,877 467,437 previous year. Sales revenue under IAS 11 amounts to € 376,499 thousand € 51,933 thousand (previous year: € 52,336 thousand) of the (previous year: € 406,604 thousand). The balance of receivables inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment recognised by PoC (gross) carried as assets or liabilities includes losses recognised as an expense in the reporting period amount costs of € 131,097 thousand (previous year: € 114,911 thou­ to € 11,969 thousand (previous year: € 18,318 thousand). Due sand) and a share in profits of € 37,695 thousand (previous to new estimates, we reversed write-downs totalling € 1,303 year: € 32,167). thousand (previous year: € 7,856 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. In­ Other receivables and other current assets include hedges of ventories amounting to € 887,869 thousand (previous year: credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement arrange­ € 871,208 thousand) were recognised as an expense in the re­ ments and long-term working time accounts of the German porting period. Group companies in the amount of € 20,900 thousand (previ­ ous year: € 16,951 thousand). CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 123 No te s Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and non-financial assets € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Trade receivables and PoC 613,311 614,293 Trade receivables from third parties 480,928 504,595 Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures 32,341 33,576 thereof from other investments 3,524 6,480 thereof from associates 280 39 thereof from joint ventures 28,537 27,057 Receivables recognised by PoC, net 100,042 76,122 Receivables recognised by PoC, gross 130,021 107,144 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 29,979 – 31,022 Other financial assets 116,970 186,995 Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures 13,344 13,578 Currency forwards 5,074 2,170 Other receivables and other current assets 98,552 171,247 Other non-financial assets 37,402 24,923 Other tax assets 30,830 18,100 Deferred income 6,572 6,823 € 23,681 thousand (previous year: € 25,230 thousand) of all The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. from capital increases in previous years. Cash 7 and cash equivalents In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves include currency translation adjustments, consolidation Cash and cash equivalents are term deposits with short matur­ effects, remeasurements of defined benefit plans under IAS 19 ities and call deposits, and also current account balances. and changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax Equity 8 assets in the amount of € 70,477 thousand (previous year: € 75,663 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount There was no change in the share capital of KSB as against the of € 187 thousand (previous year: € 39 thousand). previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is composed A total of € 9,857 thousand (dividend of € 5.50 per ordinary of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. share and € 5.76 per preference share) was paid from equity by Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional amount resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumu­ company KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, on 10 May 2017. lative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional divi­ dend rights. All shares are no-par-value bearer shares. The in­ dividual shares have no par value. 124 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Non-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Provisions 9 Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our com­ C omposition of provisions panies in India and China. KSB SE & Co. KGaA holds a 51 % D evelopment of individual provision categories interest in PAB GmbH, while Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The pension obligations in the KSB Group include defined con­ Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling tribution and defined benefit plans and contain both obligations interests are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity. from current pensions and future pension benefit entitlements. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings For employees of Group companies in Germany there is a de­ of KSB SE & Co. KGaA calculated in accordance with HGB is fined contribution plan under the German statutory pension shown at the end of these Notes. insurance scheme into which the employer must pay the cur­ rently valid pension contribution rate. Contributions to state Capital disclosures pension insurance funds recognised in the income statement Sufficient financial independence is a key requirement for safe­ totalled € 25,989 thousand (previous year: € 25,676 thousand). guarding KSB’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining € 7,446 thousand (previous year: € 8,488 thousand) was spent the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also ex­ on defined contribution schemes for employees in other coun­ tremely important for us. A key management parameter for us tries in the year under review. is the net financial position, which is the balance of financial ­ liabilities and interest-bearing financial assets (current and The obligations for defined benefit pension plans for employees non-current financial instruments, interest-bearing loans, cash of the Group are mainly due to pension obligations in Germany, and cash equivalents, and receivables from cash deposits). Our as well as in France, the United States and Switzerland. long-term objective is to avoid net debt. We regularly monitor the development of this key performance indicator and manage More than 90 % of the defined benefit pension plans are attrib­ it through active working capital management and by constant­ utable to the German Group companies. These relate to direct ly optimising our financial structure, among other things. In the commitments by the companies to their employees. The com­ financial year we exceeded our original target of € 240 to 260 mitments are based on salary and length of service. Contribu­ million and achieved € 288 million, based on further successes tions from employees themselves are also considered. This pen­ in working capital management and a consistently focused in­ sion provision can be broken down into purely company-financed vestment policy. Our net financial position was already develop­ basic provision and the top-up provision from the employer. ing more positively in the previous year than originally planned The latter is based on the amount of own contributions and the (€ 260 million compared with a planned figure of € 200 to 210 generated return on sales before taxes on income. Both compo­ million). This can also be attributed to successes in working cap­ nents take account of the general pension contribution (the ital management and a focused investment policy. amount of which partially depends on company performance), personal income (the relationship between pensionable income and maximum income threshold) and the annuity conversion factor (based on age). Pension benefits are paid in annual in­ stalments of one tenth of the amount. However, under certain conditions it is also possible to make a capital payment or pay a monthly pension instead. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 125 No te s Pension schemes in France are governed by the provisions of international law ultimately result in a surplus of obligations the respective collective agreements. The obligations are basi­ in the Group. Upon retirement, the employees concerned re­ cally covered by assets that have been paid in to an external ceive a one-off payment from the fund. fund. At the beginning of the final quarter of each year, an ac­ tuarial report is prepared to calculate the current obligation. If The defined benefit pension plans in the United States are closed there is a shortfall, a compensation payment is made to the to new entrants. The pension benefit amount is derived from fund. Differences in the calculation parameters under local and the average salary and years of service before closure of the Composition of provisions 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 € thousands Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Employee benefits 688,347 606,875 81,472 676,456 605,540 70,916 Pensions and similar obligations 586,861 586,861 – 589,542 589,542 – Other employee benefits 101,486 20,014 81,472 86,914 15,998 70,916 Other provisions 99,804 1,397 98,407 99,566 1,406 98,160 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 51,275 – 51,275 50,257 – 50,257 Provisions for restructuring 2,750 – 2,750 5,294 – 5,294 Miscellaneous other provisions 45,779 1,397 44,382 44,015 1,406 42,609 788,151 608,272 179,879 776,022 606,946 169,076 Development of individual provision categories Changes in consolidated Group / CTA* / Utilisation / € thousands 1 Jan. 2017 Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2017 Employee benefits 676,456 – 613 – 71,179 – 3,532 87,215 688,347 Pensions and similar obligations 589,542 – 1,145 – 18,055 – 195 16,714 586,861 Other employee benefits 86,914 532 – 53,124 – 3,337 70,501 101,486 Other provisions 99,566 – 510 – 46,918 – 11,512 59,178 99,804 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 50,257 – 1,205 – 22,263 – 6,001 30,487 51,275 Provisions for restructuring 5,294 –3 – 3,827 – 30 1,316 2,750 Miscellaneous other provisions 44,015 698 – 20,828 – 5,481 27,375 45,779 776,022 – 1,123 – 118,097 – 15,044 146,393 788,151 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments 126 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS plan. The retirement age is 65 years; from this point a monthly The current and past service cost is recognised in staff costs payment is made to the beneficiaries. The pension benefits are under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in finan­ financed by external funds. cial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. Pension obligations in Switzerland are predominantly based on The expected contributions in the following year are anticipat­ statutory obligations. This also includes details on a minimum ed to be € 11,448 thousand (previous year: € 11,770 thousand). pension which all employees with uninterrupted contributions C  hanges in the fair value of the plan assets are entitled to by law. The employer is therefore required to pay in contributions which are high enough for the respective pen­ Interest income is recognised in financial income net of the DBO sion fund or insurance company to pay out these minimum interest expense under interest and similar expenses. amounts. As well as pension benefits, the plans encompass oth­ C  hanges to the net liability of the defined benefit obligations er benefits such as disability or survivors’ benefits. Both em­ C omposition of plan assets ployer and employee contributions are paid to the pension fund, with the company having to make contributions that at We allocate to the pension funds the amount of money needed least match the employee contributions specified in the terms to meet statutory minimum requirements. and conditions of the plan. The retirement benefits are paid out in monthly instalments, but all employees have the option to The actual income from plan assets amounted to € 5,109 receive a (partial) capital payment. thousand (previous year: € 4,843 thousand). A ctuarial assumptions In addition, employees in other countries are also entitled to a limited extent to retirement and partly to medical care benefits, A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to staff depending mainly on the length of service and salary. turnover for the German plans, as in the previous year. The biometric assumptions continue to be based on the 2005G mor­ These defined benefit plans impose actuarial risks on the Group, tality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck as in the previ­ such as the longevity risk and interest rate risk. The payments ous year, and the retirement age used for the calculations is linked to pension obligations are paid largely from our liquid based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsassets. Plan assets are also partially available for financing these gesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard obligations. Most of the plan assets are managed by insurers Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. who set their own appropriate investment policies. Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. The actuarial valuations of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation (and the related current service The discount rate and future mortality were identified as key cost and the past service cost) are measured and calculated actuarial assumptions. As in the previous year the basis for the annually on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected calculation of the sensitivities is the same method which was unit credit method (IAS 19). used for the calculation of the provisions for pensions and sim­ B alance sheet figures for defined benefit plans ilar obligations. C hange in cash value of defined benefit obligations CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 127 No te s Balance sheet figures for defined benefit plans Defined benefit Net liability Defined benefit Net liability obligations Fair value of from defined obligations Fair value of from defined (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 Germany 560,234 – 560,234 560,775 – 560,775 France 17,920 7,181 10,739 17,035 7,265 9,770 USA 14,217 12,066 2,151 15,936 12,180 3,756 Switzerland 17,253 15,769 1,484 17,998 16,493 1,505 Other countries 40,841 28,588 12,253 42,648 28,912 13,736 Balance sheet values 650,465 63,604 586,861 654,392 64,850 589,542 Change in cash value of defined benefit obligations € thousands 2017 2016 Opening balance of the defined benefit obligation (DBO ) – 1 Jan. 654,392 589,377 Current service cost 9,858 15,867 Interest cost 12,844 14,269 Employee contributions 4,409 5,520 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 1,206 – 215 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions – 5,340 52,479 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 2,091 – 2,481 Benefit payments – 18,614 – 19,054 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 218 445 Transfer of assets – 138 – 559 Currency translation adjustments – 5,613 – 1,141 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 230 – 115 Closing balance of the defined benefit obligation (DBO ) – 31 Dec. 650,465 654,392 128 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Changes in the fair value of the plan assets € thousands 2017 2016 Opening balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 1 Jan. 64,850 63,344 Interest income 2,008 2,329 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income 3,101 2,514 Contributions by the employer 1,655 2,216 Contributions by the beneficiary employees 223 279 Currency translation adjustments – 4,485 – 1,292 Changes in consolidated Group – – Paid benefits – 2,801 – 4,614 Other – 947 74 Closing balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 31 Dec. 63,604 64,850 Changes to the net liability of the defined benefit obligations € thousands 2017 2016 Opening balance of the net liability of the defined benefit obligations – 1 Jan. 589,542 526,033 Current service cost 9,858 15,867 Interest income – 2,008 – 2,329 Interest cost 12,844 14,269 Employee contributions 4,186 5,241 Contributions by the employer – 1,655 – 2,216 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – 3,101 – 2,514 – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 1,206 – 215 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions – 5,340 52,479 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 2,091 – 2,481 Benefit payments – 15,813 – 14,440 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 218 445 Transfer of assets – 138 – 559 Currency translation adjustments – 1,128 151 Changes in consolidated Group / Other 717 – 189 Closing balance of the net liability of the defined benefit obligations – 31 Dec. 586,861 589,542 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 129 No te s Composition of plan assets No quoted No quoted Quoted market market price in Quoted market market price in price in an an active price in an an active active market market Total active market market Total € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 Equity instruments (shares) 19,660 – 19,660 20,538 – 20,538 Debt instruments (loans) 16,782 – 16,782 22,469 – 22,469 Government bonds 8,817 – 8,817 8,602 – 8,602 Corporate bonds 7,965 – 7,965 13,867 – 13,867 Currency forwards – – – 20 – 20 Money market investments 7,611 – 7,611 373 – 373 Real estate 520 – 520 880 – 880 Insurance contracts – 16,319 16,319 – 17,295 17,295 Bank credit balances 1,482 – 1,482 2,115 – 2,115 Other investments 870 360 1,230 800 360 1,160 Total 46,925 16,679 63,604 47,195 17,655 64,850 Actuarial assumptions Assumed rate of Assumed rate of Discount rate salary increase pension increase in % 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Germany 1.9 1.9 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.9 France 1.35 2.0 3.0 3.0 – – USA 3.4 3.8 – 2.3 – 2.3 Switzerland 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.0 – 1.0 Other countries 0.75 – 10.4 0.75 – 9.9 1.0 – 11.0 1.0 – 10.5 1.5 – 3.0 1.5 – 3.1 Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutual­ DBO would fall by € 102 million (previous year: € 107 million). ly dependent, but these interdependencies are not taken into A 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would in­ account in the sensitivity analysis. crease the DBO by € 131 million (previous year: € 145 million). It should be noted that a change in the discount factor due to On 31 December 2017 the weighted average term of the DBO particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not was 24 years (previous year: 23 years). affect the development of the DBO on a straight-line basis. E xpected pension benefit payments Were life expectancy to increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 20 million (previous year: € 27 million). 130 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Expected pension benefit payments € millions at 31 Dec. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Expected payments 23,964 21,181 21,241 22,230 21,716 € millions at 31 Dec. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Expected payments 21,659 21,315 21,549 21,605 22,569 Other employee benefits vision are met (€ 5.3 million; previous year: € 9.2 million). These Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-­ are usually risks arising from legal disputes in relation to oper­ sharing, jubilee payments, partial retirement obligations and ations or, in rare cases, disputes with government agencies or severance payments. The provisions include € 15,770 thousand personnel matters. In order to determine the amount of the pro­ (previous year: € 12,234 thousand) created on account of the visions, the facts related to each case, the size of the claim, the Efficiency Improvement Programme. results of comparable proceedings and independent legal opin­ ions are considered in individual cases along with assumptions Other provisions regarding the probability of occurrence and the range of poten­ The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penal­ tial claims. In addition, there are contingent liabilities resulting ties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers from legal disputes in relation to the operative business in the and are based on estimates prepared using historical data for amount of € 56.7 million (previous year: € 71.8 million). There similar products and services. are no longer any insurance claims to be covered for 2017 (pre­ vious year: € 11.0 million). The miscellaneous other provisions include provisions for antici­ pated losses from the project business (€ 4,656 thousand for € 18,489 thousand (previous year: € 18,392 thousand) of the 2017 and € 1,667 thousand for 2016), customer bonuses and other provisions are expected to become cash-effective after environmental protection measures. They also cover risks of liti­ more than one year. gation and legal proceedings if the recognition criteria for a pro­ CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 131 No te s Liabilities 10 Non-current liabilities € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Financial liabilities 54,333 57,962 Loan against borrower’s note 47,964 47,918 Bank loans and overdrafts 5,468 9,229 Finance lease liabilities 574 693 Other 327 122 Current liabilities € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Financial liabilities 21,960 119,958 Loan against borrower’s note – 74,500 Bank loans and overdrafts 21,275 44,571 Finance lease liabilities 353 501 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 322 376 Other 10 10 Trade payables 212,029 210,813 Trade payables to third parties 210,819 208,774 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 1,210 2,039 Other financial liabilities 81,467 89,406 Advances received from customers PoC (net) 49,401 44,046 Advances received from customers PoC (gross) 88,172 83,980 Receivables recognised by PoC – 38,771 – 39,934 Currency forwards 1,883 11,203 Interest rate swaps – 435 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 30,183 33,722 Other non-financial liabilities 190,161 182,979 Advances received from customers 97,703 92,505 Social security and liabilities to employees 48,703 52,657 Tax liabilities (excluding income taxes) 28,171 22,022 Prepaid expenses 10,788 10,882 Investment grants and subsidies 4,796 4,913 Income tax liabilities 5,214 9,354 132 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS In 2012, to safeguard liquidity in the medium term, KSB SE & and conditions. Of these, none (as in the previous year) relate Co. KGaA took the precaution of placing a loan against bor­ to property, plant and equipment, € 1,522 thousand (previous rower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million. This loan is year: € 724 thousand) to inventories, none (as in the previous divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years. As the year) to receivables and € 4,576 thousand (previous year: different repayment tranches have different terms, different € 1,627 thousand) to other securities. rates of interest apply, some of which are fixed and some vari­ able. In the year under review, € 74.5 million was repaid; in the As in the previous year, no liabilities were secured by land previous year there were no repayments. charges or similar rights in the year under review. Further information on receivables recognised by PoC can be The reported investment grants and subsidies largely comprise found in Section IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures – Notes No. 6. funding from the European Union and German entities for new “Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and buildings and development aid projects. non-financial assets”. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and over­ € 27.5 million (unchanged on the previous year) of the liabili­ drafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against bor­ ties arising from the loan against borrower’s note are classified rower’s note) was 4.31 % (previous year: 3.44 %). Interest rate as bank loans and overdrafts, and € 20.5 million as other finan­ risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s cial liabilities (also unchanged). note mentioned above. Assets amounting to € 6,098 thousand (previous year: € 2,351 There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for review, as was the case in the previous year too. bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 133 No te s V. I NCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURES ernment grants for individual projects (for example, for research activities) amounted to € 3,065 thousand (previous year: € 2,564 Sales 11 revenue thousand). € thousands 2017 2016 13 Cost of materials Revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale 1,951,928 1,915,739 € thousands 2017 2016 Services sales revenue 253,030 249,913 Cost of raw materials, production supplies Sales revenue 2,204,958 2,165,652 and of goods purchased and held for resale 795,559 789,298 Cost of purchased services 92,261 84,858 887,820 874,156 The breakdown of sales revenue by pumps, valves and service is presented in the segment reporting. Staff 14 costs Other 12 income € thousands 2017 2016 € thousands 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 640,390 641,451 Income from disposal of assets 12,319 1,478 Social security contributions and Income from current assets 5,834 9,277 employee assistance costs 128,563 129,574 Currency translation gains 5,767 3,629 Pension costs 27,779 27,725 Income from the reversal of provisions 14,845 8,400 796,732 798,750 Miscellaneous other income 30,405 24,443 69,170 47,227 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provi­ sions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as Income from current assets is primarily from the reversal of im­ an interest cost in financial income / expense. pairment losses on receivables. Miscellaneous other income re­ Employees lates primarily to insurance compensation amounting to € 12,491 thousands (previous year: € 1,899 thousands). Grants The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies in Chi­ and subsidies, rental and lease income and commission income na and in the Philippines led to an increase of 43 in the average are also part of miscellaneous other income. Income from gov­ number of employees over the year and in the total number at the reporting date. Employees Average for the year At reporting date 2017 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Wage earners 6,998 7,311 6,954 7,091 Salaried employees 8,073 8,125 8,047 8,015 15,071 15,436 15,001 15,106 Apprentices 450 477 454 466 15,521 15,913 15,455 15,572 134 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Other 15 expenses 16 Financial income / expense F inancial income / expense € thousands 2017 2016 Losses from asset disposals 3,169 1,270 Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on pension Losses from current assets provisions amounting to € 10,836 thousand (previous year: (primarily impairment losses on receivables) 10,867 12,744 € 11,940 thousand). The change in the financial results is main­ Currency translation losses 5,508 2,222 ly due to the positive result from investments accounted for using Other staff costs 38,480 31,157 the equity method. Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 96,981 85,816 Selling expenses 66,083 73,835 17 Taxes on income Administrative expenses 84,232 83,657 Rents and leases 27,232 26,898 All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and de­ Miscellaneous other expenses 59,862 54,842 ferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported 392,414 372,441 in the income statement after other expenses. Taxes on income Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties and contractual penalties amounting to € 13.5 million (previ­ € thousands 2017 2016 ous year: € 14.0 million), as well as additions to provisions. Effective taxes 36,053 41,160 Other staff costs include expenses within the scope of the Effi­ Deferred taxes 16,023 – 14,296 ciency Improvement Programme of € 10.3 million (previous 52,076 26,864 year: € 12.2 million) Financial income / expense € thousands 2017 2016 Financial income 6,417 6,612 Income from equity investments 253 147 thereof from other investments (253) (147) Interest and similar income 6,139 6,357 thereof from other investments (36) (37) thereof from investments accounted for using the equity method (644) (20) Other financial income 25 108 Financial expense – 20,106 – 20,672 Interest and similar expenses – 19,204 – 19,885 thereof to other investments (0) (1) Write-downs on other investments – 853 – Write-downs on investments accounted for using the equity method – – Expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – 62 Other financial expense – 49 – 725 Income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method 1,514 – 1,342 Financial income / expense – 12,175 – 15,402 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 135 No te s € 425 thousand (previous year: € 875 thousand) of the effective As at the reporting date, deferred tax assets of € 80,111 thou­ taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax re­ sand (previous year: € 97,825 thousand) were recognised, aris­ funds and € 2,632 thousand (previous year: € 2,923 thousand) ing from companies posting a loss in the financial year or pre­ to tax arrears. vious year, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we Reconciliation of deferred taxes expect realisation to take place. € thousands 2017 2016 Income taxes included under equity Change in deferred tax assets 20,430 – 27,806 Change in deferred tax liabilities 2,328 – 664 € thousands 2017 2016 Change in deferred taxes recognised in Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 9,328 – 47,278 balance sheet 22,758 – 28,470 Taxes on income – 3,843 13,546 Currency translation differences – 54,238 20,223 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity – 6,100 13,999 Taxes on income – – Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other – 635 175 Changes in the fair value of Deferred taxes recognised in financial instruments 7,203 – 1,622 income statement 16,023 – 14,296 Taxes on income – 2,257 453 Other comprehensive income – 43,807 – 14,678 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments A llocation of deferred taxes Allocation of deferred taxes Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current assets 1,456 1,828 28,220 31,309 Intangible assets 739 1,152 105 279 Property, plant and equipment 717 612 28,060 30,964 Non-current financial assets – 64 55 66 Current assets 54,912 57,152 50,142 45,621 Inventories 49,356 48,516 143 1,924 Receivables and other current assets 5,556 7,096 49,999 43,554 Assets held for sale – 1,540 – 143 Non-current liabilities 93,504 96,462 88 25 Provisions 93,312 96,305 77 – Other liabilities 192 157 11 25 Current liabilities 15,806 20,949 11,438 8,573 Provisions 10,408 11,248 1,261 1,201 Other liabilities 5,398 9,701 10,177 7,372 Tax loss carryforwards 1,243 8,928 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 166,921 185,319 89,888 85,528 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 75,185 – 73,153 – 75,185 – 73,153 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 91,736 112,166 14,703 12,375 136 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The introduction of new local taxes had minor effects (previous We did not recognise deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards year: none) in the year under review. Changes in foreign tax rates amounting to € 78,748 thousand (previous year: € 41,720 led to a reduction in the total tax expense of € 2,386 thousand thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient (previous year: reduction of € 664 thousand). taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. They are largely available As far as net income from affiliates and other equity invest­ for an indefinite period. ments is concerned, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to assets had to be set up amounted to € 32.722 thousand (previ­ corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting ous year: € 9,145 thousand). them in the long term. No deferred tax liabilities were recog­ R econciliation of income taxes nised for temporary differences of € 108,394 thousand (previ­ ous year: € 130,581 thousand) in relation to affiliates and as­ The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate sociates as it is unlikely that these temporary differences will resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity be reversed in the foreseeable future. surcharge and trade tax rates. Reconciliation of income taxes € thousands 2017 2016 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 104,180 74,641 Calculated income taxes on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 % as in the previous year) 31,254 22,392 Differences in tax rates – 3,297 – 793 Unused tax loss carryforwards 4,229 – 108 Impairment losses on deferred taxes on tax loss carryforwards 7,012 – Impairment loss on goodwill 1,222 1,542 Impairment losses on deferred taxes for temporary differences 3,991 – Tax-exempt income – 2,381 – 1,184 Non-deductible expenses 7,548 1,231 Prior-period taxes 2,207 2,048 Non-deductible foreign income tax 2,406 3,396 Investments accounted for using the equity method – 408 662 Deferred taxes not recognised – – 273 Other – 1,707 – 2,049 Current taxes on income 52,076 26,864 Current tax rate 50 % 36 % CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 137 No te s  18 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interests The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 15,770 thousand (previous year: € 15,190 thou­ sand) and the net loss attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 847 thousand (previous year: € 356 thousand). They relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and Pakistan. 19 Earnings per share Earnings per share 2017 2016 Earnings after income taxes attributable to KSB SE & Co. KGaA shareholders € thousands 37,181 32,943 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.26 per preference share) € thousands – 225 – 225 € thousands 36,956 32,718 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 21.10 18.68 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 21.36 18.94 138 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS VI. A DDITIONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: Financial instruments by measurement categories – Assets MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value € thousands category measurement 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 Non-current assets Other investments n/a Amortised cost 2,985 – 5,401 – Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 657 657 667 667 Fair value / Loans LaR Amortised cost 2,490 2,490 2,458 2,458 Current assets Fair value / Trade receivables LaR Amortised cost 480,928 480,928 504,595 504,595 Trade receivables from other investments, Fair value / associates and joint ventures LaR Amortised cost 32,341 32,341 33,576 33,576 Receivables from loans to other investFair value / ments, associates and joint ventures LaR Amortised cost 13,344 13,344 13,578 13,578 Fair value / Receivables recognised by PoC, net LaR Amortised cost 100,042 100,042 76,122 76,122 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 5,074 5,074 2,170 2,170 Fair value / Other receivables and other current assets LaR Amortised cost 98,552 98,552 171,247 171,247 Fair value / Cash and cash equivalents LaR Amortised cost 289,535 289,535 288,883 288,883 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 139 No te s Financial instruments by measurement categories – Equity and liabilities MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value € thousands category measurement 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Fair value / excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 53,759 52,622 57,269 55,803 Finance lease liabilities n/a Under IAS 17 574 579 693 699 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Fair value / excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 21,607 21,607 119,457 119,457 Finance lease liabilities n/a Under IAS 17 353 359 501 561 Fair value / Trade payables FLAC Amortised cost 212,029 212,029 210,813 210,813 Fair value / Advances received from customers (PoC) FLAC Amortised cost 49,401 49,401 44,046 44,046 Interest rate swaps used as hedges n/a Fair value – – 435 435 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 1,883 1,883 11,203 11,203 Fair value / Other financial liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 30,183 30,183 33,722 33,722 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Fair value / Loans and receivables LaR Amortised cost 1,017,232 1,017,232 1,090,459 1,090,459 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 657 657 667 667 Financial liabilities Fair value / measured at amortised cost FLAC Amortised cost 366,979 365,842 465,307 463,841 140 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortised with an adequate interest rate. Future cash flows from interest cost, with the exception of non-current loans, approximates fair rate swaps are estimated on the basis of forward interest rates value. This is also the case for all financial liabilities shown on (observable interest structure curves on the reporting date) and the balance sheet, with the exception of non-current financial the contracted interest rates, and are discounted with an ade­ liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these quate interest rate. Level 3 includes financial instruments whose financial instruments. fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are meas­ The fair values of non-current financial liabilities and loans are ured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the determined as the present value of the cash flows associated fair value is determined through the discount rate of future with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to ar­ expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield rive at this present value. curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instru­ The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities, as ments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted well as loans and receivables, measured at fair value on a re­ in active markets (level 1). Fair values within level 2 are deter­ curring basis, broken down into measurement categories and mined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash the previously described hierarchy levels. There were no reclas­ flows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of sifications carried out during the year under review. forward exchange rates (observable rates on the reporting date) Hierarchy levels 2017 and the contracted forward exchange rates, and are discounted Hierarchy levels 2016 Hierarchy levels 2017 € thousands Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 657 – – 657 Currency forwards – 5,074 – 5,074 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 1,883 – 1,883 Interest rate swaps – – – – Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost Loans – 2,490 – 2,490 Trade receivables – 480,928 – 480,928 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures – 45,685 – 45,685 Receivables recognised by PoC (inc. advances received from customers PoC) – 100,042 – 100,042 Other receivables and other current assets – 98,552 – 98,552 Cash and cash equivalents – 289,535 – 289,535 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities – 74,229 – 74,229 Trade payables – 212,029 – 212,029 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 49,401 – 49,401 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities – 30,183 – 30,183 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 141 No te s The net gains and losses from financial instruments, after taking The amount of financial assets and liabilities subject to offset­ into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the follow­ ting agreements is not material. ing table: N et results by measurement category in 2017 Financial risks N et results by measurement category in 2016 We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three The interest shown is a component of financial income / expense. areas: The effect from the application of the effective interest rate method is immaterial here as the interest expenses are virtually For one thing, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit offset by the resulting interest income. The other gains and losses risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually are partly reported in other income and other expenses. agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we value of € 0 thousand (previous year: € – 4 thousand), which are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or inter­ was recognised directly in other comprehensive income and re­ est rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of ported under “Change in the fair value of financial instruments” the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of financial in equity. In the year under review, € 0 thousand (previous year: instruments are not material for us. € 0 thousand) was withdrawn from equity or realised. Hierarchy levels 2016 € thousands Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 667 – – 667 Currency forwards – 2,170 – 2,170 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 11,203 – 11,203 Interest rate swaps – 435 – 435 Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost Loans – 2,458 – 2,458 Trade receivables – 504,595 – 504,595 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures – 47,154 – 47,154 Receivables recognised by PoC (inc. advances received from customers PoC) – 76,122 – 76,122 Other receivables and other current assets – 171,247 – 171,247 Cash and cash equivalents – 288,883 – 288,883 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities – 175,260 – 175,260 Trade payables – 210,813 – 210,813 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 44,046 – 44,046 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities – 33,722 – 33,722 142 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Net results by measurement category in 2017 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment € thousands and dividends At fair value translation losses From disposal Net results LaR 6,164 – – 718 – 1,476 – 3,970 AfS 265 – – –2 – 263 FLAC – 9,542 – 228 – – – 9,314 – 3,113 – – 490 – 1,478 – – 5,081 Net results by measurement category in 2016 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment € thousands and dividends At fair value translation losses From disposal Net results LaR 6,357 – – 1,029 – 6,815 – – 1,487 AfS 161 – – – – 87 74 FLAC – 7,607 – 2,636 – – – 4,971 – 1,089 – 1,607 – 6,815 – 87 – 6,384 We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk manage­ take out trade credit insurance policies. As in the previous year, ment system, and define how these risks are addressed through these policies account for around 10 % of the Group’s trade re­ guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the ceivables in total. In exceptional cases we accept other securities current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily the information obtained in this way to the Managing Directors cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, we also take out and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports cover against political and commercial risks in the case of certain and individual analyses. customers in selected countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables manage­ Additional information is also provided in the group manage­ ment system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, per­ ment report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on form maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report sec­ an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major tions. projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These Credit risk also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the re­ The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receiv­ sidual risk remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly able, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. We minimise the extent to which individual receivables need to be written this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by are positive. Additionally, our European companies in particular providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 143 No te s experience. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonably cer­ The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corre­ tain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, sponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our Impairment losses on trade receivables are the only material im­ business means that we supply a considerable number of custom­ pairment losses in the KSB Group. ers in different sectors. Impairment losses from the “trade receivables” category Liquidity risk Our liquidity management ensures that we minimise this risk € thousands 2017 2016 in the Group and that our solvency is ensured at all times. There Opening balance at 1 January 34,530 35,560 are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a Additions 8,219 9,776 number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict cred­ Utilised – 3,004 – 4,614 itworthiness requirements. Reversals – 3,903 – 5,818 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other – 1,847 – 374 We generate our financial resources primarily from our operat­ Closing balance at 31 December 33,995 34,530 ing business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital require­ * CTA = Currency translation adjustments ments. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a Maturity structure for trade receivables standardised Group reporting system. € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of Receivables that are neither past due monthly rolling cash flow planning , that the Group’s central­ nor individually impaired 329,503 364,733 ised financial management is continuously informed about li­ Receivables that are past due but not quidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimal­ ­i ndividually impaired ly meet the needs of the Group as a whole and of the 1 to 30 days 62,517 49,802 individual companies. For selected companies we use a cash 31 to 90 days 31,251 29,827 pooling system to ensure that available cash is deployed opti­ 91 to 180 days 16,839 16,590 mally within the Group. We also apply a worldwide receivables > 180 days 35,091 30,716 netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise both Total 145,698 126,935 the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In order to be Receivables individually determined able to provide the necessary collateral in the project business, to be impaired 5,727 12,927 corresponding guarantee volumes are made available. Adequate Receivables individually determined proportions are confirmed for a period of more than one year. to be impaired at their principal amount 39,722 47,457 In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; Specific write-downs 33,995 34,530 we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity Carrying amount (net) 480,928 504,595 plans. In this way we can react to fluctuating liquidity require­ ments at all times. Our approved cash loans and credit lines total approximately € 893.5 million (previous year: approx. With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor € 968.7 million), of which € 620.2 million has not yet been individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting utilised (previous year: € 648.1 million). date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The same applies to all other financial instruments. 144 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The following tables show the contractually agreed non-dis­ We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the counted future cash flows of the financial liabilities (primary procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by financial instruments) and derivative financial instruments. In­ agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price terest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in our basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based sales price. on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions neither expected that the cash flows will take place significant­ in currencies that are not their functional currency. We mini­ ly earlier, nor that the amounts will differ significantly. mise this risk using currency forwards and, on rare occasions, Cash flows of financial liabilities 2017 options. You will find further information on this in the “De­ Cash flows of financial liabilities 2016 rivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. We use micro hedges with regard to both transactions already recog­ Market price risk nised and cash flows that are expected in the future with a high Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency degree of probability. The hedging instruments used share the and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect essential terms and conditions with the underlying transactions, fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to i.e. with regard to amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctu­ govern the use of financial instruments. Such transactions are ations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the also subject to ongoing risk control measures. The hedging in­ portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. struments used are exclusively currency forwards entered into Cash flows of financial liabilities 2017 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 82,888 24,827 57,504 557 Trade payables 212,029 212,029 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 30,184 30,176 8 – Derivative financial instruments – Incoming payments – 5,074 – 4,690 – 384 – Derivative financial instruments – Outgoing payments 1,883 1,489 375 19 321,910 263,831 57,503 576 Cash flows of financial liabilities 2016 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 190,914 127,826 39,477 23,611 Trade payables 210,813 210,813 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 33,722 29,801 3,921 – Derivative financial instruments – Incoming payments – 3,094 – 2,718 – 376 – Derivative financial instruments – Outgoing payments 12,562 11,000 1,493 69 444,917 376,722 44,515 23,680 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 145 No te s with prime-rated banks. In order to measure the effectiveness Changes in derivatives of our hedges, the market values of the underlying and the hedge transactions are compared. Changes in the market values € thousands 2017 2016 of the derivatives are almost completely offset by changes in the Opening balance at 1 January – 6,644 – 5,026 fair values of the cash flows from the underlyings (hypothetical Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other – 272 8 derivative method). As a rule, we do not hedge currency risks Disposals 8,179 948 from the translation of foreign operations into the Group cur­ Additions – 686 – 2,574 rency (€). Closing balance at 31 December 577 – 6,644 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 276,489 thousand (previous year: € 269,794 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate deriva­ The main currencies in the KSB Group are the Chinese yuan tives was € 0 thousand (previous year: € 39,500 thousand). The (CNY) and US dollar (USD). For the currency sensitivity analy­ contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards and sis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our interest rate derivatives are as follows: existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency Notional volumes 2017 receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analy­ Notional volumes 2016 sis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. In the reporting year, this would have amounted to approximately € 1.5 million for CNY (previous year: € 2.0 million) and € 1.2 million (previous year: € 1.2 million) for USD. Currency volumes Notional volumes 2017 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 276,489 261,560 14,819 110 Interest rate derivatives – – – – 276,489 261,560 14,819 110 Notional volumes 2016 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 269,794 203,390 670 65,704 Interest rate derivatives 39,500 39,500 – – 309,294 242,890 670 65,704 146 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Currency volumes CNY 31 Dec. 2017 CNY 31 Dec. 2016 USD 31 Dec. 2017 USD 31 Dec. 2016 Trade receivables € 57.5 million € 66.7 million € 22.3 million € 26.4 million Trade payables € 42.1 million € 46.6 million € 10.8 million € 14.9 million Balance € 15.4 million € 20.1 million € 11.5 million € 11.5 million Based on the measurement of derivatives, at the reporting date, relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group € 11.7 million lower (higher), with € 9.0 million resulting from on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. USD and € 2.7 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” sub­ would have been € 11.3 million lower (higher), with € 8.7 million total that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreci­ resulting from USD and € 2.6 million from the other currencies. ation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and We regularly monitor the interest rate risks associated with our non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest rate This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other oper­ fluctuations on the international capital markets, we conclude ating components of assets (including current financial instru­ interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necessary, gener­ ments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating ally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge activities. Only those changes that are recognised in the income floating rate loans against rising interest rates. No such transac­ statement are taken into account. tions were recognised in the financial year. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-­ As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 50 effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and ana­ assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current financial lyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2017, assets, and changes in term deposits with a maturity of more the net interest balance would have been € 1.7 million (€ 1.2 than 3 months, including commercial papers. million) (previous year: € 2.0 million (€ 2.0 million) higher (low­ er). There were no interest rate derivatives in the Group in the In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitali­ financial year. In the previous year, changes in the fair value of sation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financ­interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate liabilities in­ ­ing activities also comprise cash flows arising from changes in creased (decreased) equity by € 0.1 million (€ 0.1 million). financial liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is re­ VII. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS ported separately. Changes in cash flows from financing activities In the statement of cash flows, cash flows are classified by oper­ ating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 147 No te s Changes in cash flows from financing activities Cash-effective Non-cash Exchangerate-related € thousands 31 Dec. 2016 Acquisitions changes 31 Dec. 2017 Non-current liabilities 57,269 – 2,122 – – 1,388 53,759 Current liabilities 119,082 – 95,491 – – 2,306 21,285 Lease liabilities 1,193 – 223 – – 43 927 Total liabilities from financing activities 177,544 – 97,386 – – 3,737 75,971 Dividend payments – – 12,348 – – – Salary conversion (provisions for pensions) – 4,186 – – – Total cash flows from financing activities – – 105,998 – – – VIII. SEGMENT REPORTING The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and Segment reporting is prepared in accordance with IFRS 8 based control systems. Applications primarily include process engion the management approach and corresponds to our internal neering, building services, energy conversion and solids transorganisational and management structure as well as the reportport. ing lines to the Managing Directors as the chief operating decision-makers. In our matrix organisation, management decisions The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicastart-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of tors – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before pumps, related systems and valves for all applications; as well interest and taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete and Service segments. Reporting the relevant assets, number of systems. employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these segments is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of Our companies can be allocated to one or more segments based the segments, which are geared to product groups, have profit on their business activities. and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been current and future market requirements. They also proactively established in compliance with the accounting policies of the encourage the development of new products and improvements underlying consolidated financial statements. to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. The Pumps segment includes singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. There were no discontinued operations in the period under Applications include process engineering, building services, wareview, as in the comparative period of the previous year. ter and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. 148 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The order intake by segment presents order intake generated € 588,997 thousand (previous year: € 552,538 thousand) of the with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany, € 228,404 thousand (previous year: € 262,601 The external sales revenue by segment presents sales revenue thousand) by the companies based in France, € 167,274 thou­ generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group com­ sand (previous year: € 200,779 thousand) by the companies panies. based in the USA , and € 1,220,283 thousand (previous year: € 1,149,734 thousand) by the other Group companies. The table shows earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and consolidated earnings before income taxes (EBT) including There were no relationships with individual customers that ac­ non-controlling interests. counted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. Segment reporting At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB The EBIT of the Pumps segment includes depreciation and amor­ Group amounted to € 636,453 thousand (year-end figure in tisation expense of € 47.0 million (previous year: € 49.2 million), 2017: € 632,641 thousand), with 204,209 thousand (year-end the EBIT of the Valves segment includes depreciation and amor­ figure in 2017: € 199,272 thousand) being attributable to the tisation expense of € 9.6 million (previous year: € 11.1 million) companies based in Germany and € 432,244 thousand (year-end and the EBIT of the Service segment includes depreciation and figure in 2017: € 433,369 thousand) being attributable to the amortisation expense of € 14.9 million (previous year: € 12.3 other Group companies. They include intangible assets, proper­ million). ty, plant and equipment and investments accounted for using the equity method; non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. Segment reporting Order intake Sales revenue EBIT € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Pumps segment 1,473,628 1,386,617 1,444,392 1,428,491 79,891 60,876 Valves segment 343,505 331,182 338,849 360,794 51 8,794 Service segment 448,179 438,756 421,717 416,521 37,303 33,279 Reconciliation to PoC – – – – 40,154 – – 14,780 Total 2,265,312 2,156,555 2,204,958 2,165,652 117,245 88,169 Financial income – Interest and similar income 6,139 6,357 Financial expense – Interest and similar expenses – 19,204 – 19,885 Earnings before income taxes ( EBT ) 104,180 74,641 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 149 No te s IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES Operating leases Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Minimum lease payments € thousands 2017 2016 Contingent liabilities and collateral Due within 1 year 15,696 16,627 Due between 1 and 5 years 30,069 29,269 € thousands 2017 2016 Due after more than 5 years 3,941 7,001 Liabilities from guarantees 4,877 4,481 49,706 52,897 Liabilities from warranties 482 224 Liabilities from the granting of other ­s ecurity for third-party liabilities and In the year under review, € 16,627 thousand (previous year: other contingent liabilities 10,696 11,231 € 17,832 thousand) was spent. 16,055 15,936 Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. Finance leases Other contingent liabilities are expected to include up to € 1,599 thousand (previous year: € 7,380 thousand) for tax items (plus Finance leases relate mostly to real estate, as well as to other any interest). At present, there are no indications that any claims equipment, operating and office equipment. The term of the will be asserted under these obligations. contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The Group has contingent liabilities as a result of its investment The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to in associates and joint ventures of € 7,426 thousand (previous € 41,844 thousand (previous year: € 56,243 thousand) over a year: € 9,344 thousand). The reported amount is the Group’s term of one to five years. share of contingent liabilities from joint ventures. Contingent liabilities relating to other investments total € 963 thousand As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations (previous year: € 1,006 thousand). The extent to which these from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations will result in a cash outflow depends on the future business from capitalisation measures at Group companies. performance of the respective company. Finance leases Minimum lease payments Present values € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 Due within 1 year 359 561 353 501 Due between 1 and 5 years 579 587 574 584 Due after more than 5 years – 112 – 109 938 1,260 927 1,194 150 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (principally ties controlled or jointly controlled by the Managing Directors items of property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 12,249 of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH. thousand (previous year: € 17,854 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2018. In the reporting period, related parties also included the Super­ visory Board and the Board of Management of KSB , which Research and development costs operated under the legal form of a public limited company un­ Research and development costs in the year under review der German law [Aktiengesellschaft] until the end of the finan­ amounted to € 47,106 thousand (previous year: € 51,262 cial year. thousand). Some of these costs are contract costs under IAS 11. The following table shows services provided and used, as well Related party disclosures as pending receivables and liabilities owed from and to related Balances and transactions between KSB SE & Co. KGaA and parties: its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated  ervices, receivables and liabilities in dealings S during the consolidation process and are not explained in fur­ with related parties ther detail. Details regarding transactions between the KSB Group and other related parties are provided below. Further information on joint ventures and associates (related party disclosures) can be found in Section IV . Balance Sheet Other related parties include: Disclosures – Notes No. 4 “Investments accounted for under the equity method”, No. 6 “Trade receivables and PoC as well as Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsother financial and non-financial assets” and No. 10 “Liabili­ gesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foun­ ties”, and in Section IX. Other Disclosures – Contingent Liabil­ dation], Stuttgart, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting ities. interest in KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to The transactions in relation to the parent company Johannes 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the und Jacob Klein GmbH are based on a rental and services agree­ voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB ment. In addition, Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH received Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were dividend payments. attributable to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attrib­ Transactions with subsidiaries of Johannes und Jacob Klein uted to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Johannes und GmbH comprise transactions with Palatina Versicherungsservice Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal. In 2017 the voting interest of GmbH, Abacus alpha GmbH, Abacus Resale GmbH, Abacus Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH increased to 83.76 %. Experten GmbH and Salinnova GmbH (formerly AIM Separa­ tion GmbH). There were no transactions with associates or joint Related parties also include the subsidiary companies and joint ventures of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH in the financial ventures of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal, as year. well as the Kühborth Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation], Stuttgart, which holds 1 % of the shares in Johannes und Jacob A rental and services agreement for insurances is in place be­ Klein GmbH. In addition, related parties include the Managing tween Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH and KSB SE & Co. Directors of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, as well as enti­ KGaA. Abacus Experten GmbH concluded a number of service CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 151 No te s Services, receivables and liabilities in dealings with related parties Sales of goods Purchases of goods and services and services Receivables Liabilities € thousands 2017 2016 2017 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 KSB Stiftung and Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH – – – – – – – – Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (formerly: Klein Pumpen GmbH) 1,708 143 16 35 4 133 16 – Subsidiaries of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH 1,448 75 2,845 765 182 124 774 214 Associates / joint ventures of Johannes und Jabob Klein GmbH – 483 – 2,172 – – – 25 Other related parties (corporate b­ odies), excluding “Management ­r emuneration” 105 12 16 16 6 1 – – agreements with KSB SE & Co. KGaA; there is a framework advantages concluded with Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH as delivery and service agreement with Abacus Resale GmbH for well as related and other parties, amounting to € 2.5 million for the purchase of returns and the provision of additional associ­ rental and services transactions. They were recorded under other ated services. In addition, products were delivered to the com­ operating income. € 0.1 million of these relate to the period pany as part of the normal business activities. KSB SE & Co. from January to April 2017, € 2.1 million to the financial years KGaA and Abacus alpha GmbH have also concluded service from 2006 to 2016 and € 0.3 million to cost reimbursements in agreements. Our products were delivered to airinotec GmbH connection with tax issues. This resulted in tax liabilities includ­ and Salinnova GmbH as part of normal business activities. We ing interest amounting to a total of € 5.1 million for the financial purchased spare parts from Salinnova GmbH. In the financial years from 2007 to 2016, with a final settlement being agreed year, two Supervisory Board members held an immaterial share with the fiscal authorities. A major share of this amount was of interests in our company. already paid in the 2017 financial year. Within the scope of ongoing legal investigations commissioned by the company, fur­ Transactions with related parties are, as a rule, performed at ther claims of the company exceeding the volume covered by arm’s length. Transactions that initially were not performed at the agreements already made in financial years 2016 and 2017 arm’s length in the 2017 financial year were compensated in the are being reviewed by an external legal consultancy firm. financial year. Pending balances at the year end are unsecured, do not accrue Until the end of the 2017 financial year, the company was granted interest and are settled by means of payments. No guarantees reimbursements under agreements for the compensation of dis­ were given or received. The receivables presented here, as in the 152 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS previous year, are not subject to write-downs and no provisions sand) to former members of the Board of Management and have been created for this purpose. their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,422 thousand in the year under review (preDisclosures and information on affiliates and investments acvious year: € 2,244 thousand). counted for using the equity method provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products The short-term benefits paid to members of the Supervisory and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. Board amount to € 834 thousand for the 2017 financial year (previous year: € 716 thousand). Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management personnel of the Group must be disclosed. The following table conThe members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Mantains the relevant figures for the KSB Group with regard to the agement are listed before the presentation of the proposal on remuneration paid to members of the Board of Management of the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. KSB , which operated under the legal form of a public limited company under German law [Aktiengesellschaft] until the end Auditors of the financial year. PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell­ schaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in Mannheim, Management remuneration were appointed as auditors and group auditors for the 2017 financial year at the Annual General Meeting of KSB SE & Co. € thousands 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 KGaA on 10 May 2017. Overall, fees (including expenses) Short-term benefits (total remuneration) 1,858 1,250 amounting to € 1,334 thousand were recognised as expenses. Post-employment benefits 1,422 1,388 Of this, € 1,086 thousand relates to audit services, € 49 thouOther long-term benefits – – sand to other assurance services and € 199 thousand to other Termination benefits – – services. Share-based payments – – Total 3,280 2,638 KSB applied the IDW RS HFA 36 (new version) standard for the financial year ending on 31 December 2016, i.e. earlier than required. The audit fees include costs for the audit of the conBased on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General solidated financial statements and of the statutory annual finanMeeting on 6 May 2015 resolved not to disclose the remunercial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA and the German subation of the Board of Management separately for each member sidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements. The and classified by components. € 2,934 thousand (previous year: fees for other certification services primarily include attestation € 5,255 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations services outside of the audit of the annual financial statements. to active members of the Board of Management as at 31 Dec. The fees for other services mainly include fees for project-­ 2017, and € 42,202 thousand (previous year: € 39,309 thouspecific consultancy services. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 153 No te s Use of exemption option KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt and Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal, have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264(3) of the HGB. Events after the reporting period The Annual General Meeting of KSB SE & Co. KGaA adopted a resolution on 10 May 2017 on the announced change in the legal form of the company to a partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA]. An entry was made to that effect in the Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] on 17 January 2018. No further significant events occurred after the balance sheet date that would have a material effect on the company’s results of operations, financial position and net assets. German Corporate Governance Code The Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board of KSB SE & Co. KGa issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] on 21 March 2018. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. 154 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS LIST OF SHAREHOLDINGS Affiliates (national and international) No. Name and seat Country Capital share in % Held by No. National 1 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany 100.00 2 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany 100.00 3 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 4 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 5 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany 100.00 6 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 7 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany 100.00 8 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany 100.00 9 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany 100.00 International 10 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. ( AMVI ), Burgos Spain 100.00 27 11 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 12 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China 100.00 27 13 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands 100.00 26 14 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK ( PTY ) LTD , Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 49 15 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 17 16 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 100.00 17 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 6 10.03 57 18 KSB AMRI Inc., Houston / Texas USA 89.97 17 19 KSB Australia Pty Ltd, Bundamba QLD Australia 100.00 27 20 KSB Belgium S.A., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium 100.00 27 21 KSB BRASIL LTDA ., Várzea Paulista Brazil 100.00 27 22 KSB , Bombas e Válvulas, SA , Albarraque Portugal 95.00 23 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile 100.00 95.00 27 24 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina 5.00 25 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico 100.00 26 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 27 27 KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 100.00 28 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland 100.00 29 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 17 30 KSB , Inc. – Western Division, Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 17 31 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy 100.00 27 32 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain 100.00 27 33 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea 100.00 34 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China 100.00 35 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 27 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 155 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs No. Name and seat Country Capital share in % Held by No. 36 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam Malaysia 100.00 63 37 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. 100.00 27 49.00 54 38 KSB MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India 51.00 39 KSB Sverige Aktiebolag AB , Gothenburg Sweden 100.00 40 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 26 41 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand 100.00 19 42 KSB Norge AS , Ski Norway 100.00 43 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria 100.00 27 44 KSB PHILIPPINES , INC ., Makati City Philippines 100.00 63 45 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey 100.00 27 46 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d'Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco 100.00 57 47 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland 100.00 48 KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, Tianjin China 100.00 34 49 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 84.99 55 50 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d., Domžale Slovenia 100.00 51 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand 40.00 52 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan 58.89 53 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 27 54 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India 40.54 11 55 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 27 56 KSB -Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic 100.00 57 KSB S.A.S. , Gennevilliers (Paris) France 100.00 27 58 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea 100.00 59 KSB Service Belgium S.A./N.V., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium 100.00 20 60 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , Montfavet France 100.00 57 61 KSB Service Energie S.A.S. U., Rambervillers France 100.00 57 62 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 80.00 27 63 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100.00 64 KSB Szivattyú és Armatura Kft., Budapest Hungary 100.00 65 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan 100.00 66 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 67 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China 100.00 68 KSB Verwaltung (Schweiz) AG , Reinach Switzerland 100.00 27 69 KSB Vietnam Co., Ltd, Long Thanh District Vietnam 100.00 63 70 KSB (Schweiz) AG , Oftringen Switzerland 100.00 71 KSB SERVICE COTUMER S.A.S. , Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 61 72 OOO “ KSB “, Moscow Russia 100.00 3 94.10 27 73 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia 5.90 99.00 73 74 PT . KSB Sales Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia 1.00 156 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS No. Name and seat Country Capital share in % Held by No. 75 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden 100.00 39 76 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy 100.00 77 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 52.85 27 78 Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater United Kingdom 100.00 35 79 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle S.A.S. , Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 71 80 SPI Energie S.A.S. , La Ravoire France 100.00 57 81 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 17 82 VM Pumpar AB , Gothenburg Sweden 100.00 39 Joint ventures (national and international) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat Country in % No. € thousands € thousands National 83 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Pegnitz Germany 50.00 – 455 40 International 84 KSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET ANONİM ŞİRKETİ, Ankara Turkey 55.00 45 101 –5 85 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia 50.00 27 15,286 1,192 86 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. 49.00 6,715 437 87 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 45.00 28,886 977 Associates (national and international) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat Country in % No. € thousands € thousands International 88 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 4,661 2,333 * Data according to latest annual financial statements under IFRS Prior-period figures CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 157 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs Companies not consolidated because of immateriality – Affiliates (national and international) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat Country in % No. € thousands € thousands National 89 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany 51.00 327 –7 90 Pumpen Partner Netzwerk UG , Stein Germany 51.00 4 2 0 International 98.10 72 91 IOOO “ KSB BEL “, Minsk Belarus 481 171 1.90 3 92 KSB Algérie Eurl, Bordj el Kifane (Alger) Algeria 100.00 27 794 318 93 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia 100.00 332 5 94 KSB Colombia SAS , Funza (Cundinamarca) Colombia 100.00 27 584 7 95 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan 100.00 – 1,658 – 483 96 KSB Perú S.A., Lurin Peru 100.00 1,210 55 97 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade Serbia 100.00 50 56 –3 98 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Rakov Potok Croatia 100.00 50 150 42 99 KSB ZAMBIA LIMITED , Kitwe Zambia 60.00 55 2 4 100 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco 100.00 46 – 482 – 41 101 TOO “ KSB Kazakhstan“, Almaty Kazakhstan 100.00 72 137 87 102 TOV “ KSB Ukraine“, Kiev Ukraine 100.00 72 293 112 * Data according to latest annual financial statements under IFRS Prior-period figures 158 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS SUPERVISORY BOARD Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dipl.-Kfm., Großhesselohe 6) Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board Member of the Management / CFO of († 31 Jan. 2017) Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG (Member of the Supervisory Board until 14 April 2017) Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Dipl.-Kfm., Icking 1) Former Managing Director of OSRAM GmbH René Klotz, NC Programmer, Frankenthal (Chairman of the Supervisory Board until 28 Feb. 2017) Chairman of the General Works Council Dr. Bernd Flohr, Dipl.-Kfm., Dipl.-Soz., Geislingen Wolfgang Kormann, Hand Moulder, Pegnitz Former Executive Board Member of WMF AG Member of the European Works Council, (Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 22 March 2017) Chairman of the Group Works Council Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach 2) Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.Ing., Frankenthal Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Managing Director of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Monika Kühborth, Editor, Homburg Dr. Stella A. Ahlers, Kauffrau, Feusisberg, Switzerland 3) Managing Director of Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH Chairwoman of the Board of Management of Ahlers AG (Member of the Supervisory Board from 21 March 2017 to 31 Jan. 2018) (Member of the Supervisory Board from 11 May 2016 to 20 March 2017) Birgit Mohme, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Frankenthal 7) Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim 4) Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen-Frankenthal Head of Corporate Legal, Compliance, Procurement and Logistic Services MVV Energie AG Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg (Member of the Supervisory Board until 28 Feb. 2017) 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Freinsheim 5) Prof. Dr.-Ing. Corinna Salander, Stuttgart 8) Head of Corporate Unit Pumps Head of Railway Vehicle Technology, Stuttgart University (Member of the Supervisory Board until 14 Sept. 2017) (Member of the Supervisory Board since 26 Feb. 2018) Oswald Bubel, Dipl.-Betriebswirt, Saarbrücken Gabriele Sommer, Dipl.-Geol., Wörthsee 9) Managing Director of Hager Electro GmbH & Co. KG Global Head of Human Resources TÜV SÜD AG (Member of the Supervisory Board from 21 March 2017 to 31 Jan. 2018) Dr. Hans-Stefan Wiß, Ludwigshafen Klaus Burchards, Dipl.-Kfm., Stuttgart Head of Legal & Compliance, KSB SE & Co. KGaA Independent Auditor (Member of the Supervisory Board since 15 Sept. 2017) (Member of the Supervisory Board since 18 April 2017) Arturo Esquinca, Dipl.-Chemieing., Forch, Switzerland Coesia Group, Industrial Process Division, Zurich, Switzerland Head of Business Development (Member of the Supervisory Board since 26 Feb. 2018) CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 159 No te s S u pe rv i so ry B o ard Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members on the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies 1) Member of the Board of Trustees of WTS-Stiftung für Altersversorgung, Munich, Germany 2) BKK advita, Alzey, Germany 3) Adolf Ahlers AG, Zug, Switzerland 4) PALATINA Versicherungsservice GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany 5) Burckhardt Compression AG, Winterthur, Switzerland 6) Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG, Munich, Germany Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India FCS Holding Inc., Wilmington, USA Chem-Trend Holding LP, Wilmington, USA Externa Holding S.R.L., Milan, Italy 7) Deutsche Rentenversicherung Rheinland-Pfalz, Speyer, Germany 8) Supervisory Board, Bombardier Transportation GmbH Scientific Committee Shift2Rail Group of publishers of Eisenbahntechnische Rundschau (ETR) Scientific Advisory Council of ZEVrail University bodies Chair of the Doctoral Candidate Admissions Committee of Faculty 7 Spokesperson of the Centre for Transportation Research of Stuttgart University (FOVUS) Member of the Research / Young Scientists and Equal Opportunities senate committees Deputy Equal Opportunities Officer of Stuttgart University 9) TÜV SÜD Industrie Service GmbH, Munich, Germany TÜV SÜD Auto Service GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany 160 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES Managing Directors of KSB Management SE Mandates of the Managing Directors (from 17 January 2018, previously: Board of Management on the Board of Directors of KSB companies of KSB Aktiengesellschaft) 1) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa (until 31 May 2017) Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal 1) (until 31 Dec. 2017) KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa (until 31 May 2017) Human Resources Director 2) KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing, Human Resources KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, The Netherlands Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada and the Pumps and Valves segments KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Werner Stegmüller, Mannheim 2) (until 30 May 2017) Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Finance and Accounting, Controlling, KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Patents & Trademarks, KSB, Inc., Richmond / Virginia, USA Legal & Compliance, Internal Audits and the Service segment 3) KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, The Netherlands Dr. Matthias Schmitz, Frankenthal 3) (from 1 June 2017) Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA (from 7 July 2017) Finance, Controlling, Investor Relations, IT, Purchasing KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India (from 25 July 2017) KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Ralf Kannefass, Regensburg 4) (from 1 July 2017) GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA Sales, Service 4) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg (from 20 Feb. 2018) KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Dr. Stephan Bross, Freinsheim 5) (from 15 Sept. 2017) 5) KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India Technology, Products, Operations, Digital Transformation KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Gate Motor Teknolojileri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Turkey Dr. Stephan Jörg Timmermann, Augsburg (from 13 Nov. 2017) DP industries B.V., Alphen, The Netherlands (until 31 Dec. 2017) Sprecher [Chairman] Strategy, Human Resources, Communications, Legal & Compliance CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 161 No te s Le gal R e pre se n tati v e s Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs o f K S B S E & C o. K GaA PROPOSAL ON THE APPROPRIATION OF THE NET RETAINED EARNINGS OF KSB SE & Co. KGaA We will propose to the Annual General Meeting that the net retained earnings of € 13,359,777.62 of KSB SE & Co. KGaA be appropriated as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 7.50 per ordinary no-par-value share € 6,649,612.50 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 7.76 per preference no-par-value share € 6,710,165.12 Frankenthal, 21 March 2018 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors The annual financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA were prepared in accordance with German ­accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal ­Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. 162 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N GENERAL INFORMATION 164 Responsibility Statement 165 Independent Auditor’s Report 175 Glossary 176 Contacts G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 164 GENER A L INFORMAT ION RE SP ONSI BI L I TY STATEM ENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 21 March 2018 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 165 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t I n de pe n de n t Au di to r’s R e po rt INDEP END ENT AUDI TO R’ S REPO RT To KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT AUDIT OPINIONS We have audited the consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (formerly KSB Aktiengesellschaft), Frankenthal / Pfalz, and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2017, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, includ­ing a summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the group management report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2017. We have not audited the content of those parts of the group management report listed in the “Other Information” section of our auditor's report in accordance with the German legal requirements. In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit, the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § [Article] 315e Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code] and, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017, and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the group management report does not cover the content of those parts of the group management report listed in the “Other Information” section of our auditor’s report. Pursuant to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz [sentence] 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. BASIS FOR THE AUDIT OPINIONS We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537 / 2014, referred to subsequently as “EU Audit Regulation”) and in compliance with German Generally Accepted 166 GENER A L INFORMAT ION Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2017. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters. In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit were as follows: 1 Recoverability of goodwill 2 Accounting treatment for customer-specific construction contracts 3 Recognition and presentation of transactions with “related parties” Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured in each case as follows: 1 Matter and issue 2 Audit approach and findings 3 Reference to further information Hereinafter we present the key audit matters: 1 Recoverability of goodwill 1 I n the Company’s consolidated financial statements goodwill amounting in total to EUR 70.5 million is reported under the Intangible assets balance sheet item. Goodwill is tested for impairment by the Company once a year or when there are indications of impairment to determine any possible need for write-downs. Impairment testing is carried out at the level CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 167 I n de pe n de n t Au di to r’s R e po rt of the cash-generating units to which the relevant goodwill is allocated. The carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating unit, including goodwill, is compared with the corresponding recoverable amount in the context of the impairment test. The recoverable amount is generally calculated on the basis of the value in use, and in one case on the basis of the fair value less costs of disposal. The present value of the future cash flows from the respective cash-generating unit normally serves as the basis of valuation. The present values are calculated using discounted cash flow models. For this purpose, the adopted medium-term business plan of the Group forms the starting point which is extrapolated based on assumptions about long-term rates of growth. Expectations relating to future market developments and assumptions about the development of macroeconomic factors are also taken into account. The discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant cash-generating unit. The impairment test resulted in the recognition of a write-down amounting to a total of EUR 5.6 million with respect to the cash-generating unit KSB Seil Co. Ltd., Busan / South Korea. The outcome of this valuation is dependent to a large extent on the estimates made by the executive directors with respect to the future cash inflows from the respective cash-generating unit, on the discount rate used, the rate of growth as well as other assumptions, and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. Against this background and due to the complex nature of the valuation, this matter was of particular significance in the context of our audit. 2 As part of our audit, we assessed the methodology employed for the purposes of performing the impairment test, among other things. After matching the future cash inflows used for the calculation against the adopted medium-term business plan of the Group, we assessed the appropriateness of the calculation, in particular by reconciling it with general and sector-specific market expectations. We also assessed the appropriate consideration of the costs of Group functions. In the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount rate applied can have a material impact on the value of the entity calculated using this method, we focused our testing in particular on the parameters used to determine the discount rate applied, and assessed the calculation model. We evaluated the sensitivity analyses performed by the Company, in order to reflect the uncertainty inherent in the projections. We evaluated that the necessary disclosures were made in the notes relating to cashgenerating units for which a reasonably possible change in an assumption would result in the recoverable amount falling below the carrying amount of the cash-generating units including the allocated goodwill. Overall, the measurement parameters and assumptions used by the executive directors are in line with our expectations and are also within the ranges considered by us to be reasonable. 3 The Company’s disclosures on goodwill are contained in section IV. note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 168 GENER A L INFORMAT ION 2 Accounting treatment for customer-specific construction contracts 1 Revenue totaling EUR 376.5 million reported in the consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA is attributable to customer-specific construction contracts. Provided that the criteria of IAS 11 have been met, the revenue is recognized in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method, with the estimate of the stage of completion being based on the ratio of contract costs actually incurred to the planned total costs (“cost-to-cost method”). In particular, estimating the planned total costs and appropriately allocating the costs actually incurred to the contracts are based on the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors. Against this background and due to the resulting uncertainties and the complexity of the accounting treatment, this matter was of particular significance in the context of our audit. 2 During our audit we assessed the processes and controls established by the Group in relation to recognizing revenue from customer-specific construction contracts taking into account the stage of completion. In addition, we examined projects on a sample basis to determine whether they met the requirements for the recognition of revenue in accordance with the percentage of completion pursuant to IAS 11. Moreover, we evaluated the determination of the stage of completion of customer-specific contracts on the basis of the cost-to-cost method and the resulting proportion of revenue recognized, considering that a prospective loss must be recognized immediately. In this connection we assessed the calculation of not only the planned total costs but also the costs actually incurred. We assessed the stage of completion, among other things based on interviews with project managers and by inspecting project documentation. In addition, we assessed the consistency of the methods used to calculate the costs incurred. Furthermore, we addressed the inherent audit risk in this audit area by audit procedures that were consistently carried out throughout the Group. We were able to satisfy ourselves that overall the established systems and processes as well as controls in place are appropriate and that the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors concerning the recognition and measurement of revenue according to the stage of completion are appropriately documented. 3 The Company’s disclosures regarding revenue from customer-specific construction contracts are contained in sections III., IV. note 6 and section V. note 11 of the notes to the consoli­ dated financial statements. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 169 I n de pe n de n t Au di to r’s R e po rt 3 Recognition and presentation of transactions with “related parties” 1  the financial year 2017, the Group generated revenue from the sale of goods and services In with related parties and incurred expenses from the sale of goods and services. The definition of related parties pursuant to IAS 24 includes both entities and natural persons that are directly or indirectly controlled or significantly influenced by KSB SE & Co. KGaA, as well as entities and natural persons that directly or indirectly control, or exert significant influence over, KSB SE & Co. KGaA (hereinafter referred to as “related p ­ arties”). Legal transactions with related parties are generally executed at arm’s length. The Company has made disclosures in the consolidated financial statements on legal trans­actions that were not originally executed at arm’s length in the financial year 2017 but were compensated for in the course of the financial year. By the end of the financial year 2017, the Company had received reimbursements from agreements on compensation for disadvantages in the amount of EUR 2.5 million, which were recognized in “other operating income”. EUR 0.1 million of this amount relates to the period from January to April 2017, EUR 2.1 million relates to the financial years from 2006 to 2016 and EUR 0.3 million relates to cost reimbursements for tax processing. An external law firm was involved in the calculation of the compensation for disadvantages and the assertion of the claims. This resulted in tax obligations including interest in the total amount of EUR 5.1 million for the years from 2007 to 2016 that were agreed as part of an actual agreement with the tax authorities based on an expert opinion prepared by an external tax consultancy firm. As part of legal investigations commissioned by the Company which are still ongoing, other claims of the Company extending beyond the agreements already reached in the financial years 2016 and 2017 will be assessed by an external law firm. A  gainst this background and given the risk that not all transactions with related parties have been recognized by the Company, or that the disclosures on the related parties in the con­ solidated financial statements are incomplete or incorrect, this matter was of particular significance during our audit. 2 As  part of our audit, initially we conducted discussions with the executive directors and the legal department of KSB SE & Co. KGaA to obtain an understanding of the establishment of the organizational measures used to identify and approve the conclusion of agreements with related parties, as well as the controls established by the Company in this regard, and assessed these measures and controls. Furthermore, we obtained a full list of all agreements and business relationships with related parties from the executive directors of KSB SE & Co KGaA. We obtained letters of confirmation from the supervisory board members of KSB SE & Co. KGaA in office in the financial year 2017, the managing directors of KSB Management SE (as the former members of the Board of Management of KSB Aktienge170 GENER A L INFORMAT ION sellschaft as the Company’s legal predecessor) and KSB Stiftung, Kühborth Stiftungs GmbH and Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (formerly Klein Pumpen GmbH) as parent companies, in which they list the business relationships, both those in line with the arm’s length principle and those not in line with the arm’s length principle, with KSB SE & Co. KGaA in the financial year 2017. By comparing the full list of the agreements and business relationships with the related parties against the customer and vendor accounts set up in the financial accounting records of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, we examined whether there were any other business relationships with related parties not specified by the Company. We also examined that the new agreements concluded with the related parties in the financial year since May 2017 had been approved by the supervisory board. We also evaluated that agreements with related parties that were not concluded at arm’s length in the previous years and up until April 2017 were terminated or adjusted to reflect standard market conditions in the financial year 2017. We assessed the controls established by the Company to evaluate agreements with related parties for adherence to the arm’s length principle prior to a contract conclusion. We assessed the Company’s calculations on the disadvantages suffered by it, which were taken as a basis for the agreements on compensation for disadvantages. In addition, we compared the incoming payments at KSB SE & Co KGaA with these agreements. With regard to the recognition of possible risks resulting from legal disputes and tax risks, we also obtained confirmations from attorneys and tax consultants as at 31 December 2017. Based on our audit procedures, we were able to satisfy ourselves that the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors relating to the disclosures on transactions with related parties are substantiated and sufficiently documented. 3  The Company’s disclosures on transactions with related parties are contained in section IX. of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. OTHER INFORMATION The executive directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the following non-audited parts of the group management report: the statement on corporate governance pursuant to § 289f HGB and § 315d HGB included in section “Corporate Governance Statement” of the group management report the corporate governance report pursuant to No. 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code the separate non-financial report pursuant to § 289b Abs. 3 HGB and § 315b Abs. 3 HGB The other information comprises further the remaining parts of the annual report – excluding cross-references to external information – with the exception of the audited consolidated financial statements, the audited group management report and our auditor’s report. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 171 I n de pe n de n t Au di to r’s R e po rt Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other information, and consequently we do not express an audit opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB and that the con­ solidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and financial performance of the Group. In addition the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they have determined necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the executive directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group management report. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. 172 GENER A L INFORMAT ION AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this group management report. We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of these systems. Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and related disclosures. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 173 I n de pe n de n t Au di to r’s R e po rt Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective audit opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern. Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB. Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated finan­­ cial statements and on the group management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinions. Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides. Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions used by the executive directors as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective information and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoid­ able risk that future events will differ materially from the prospective information. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 174 GENER A L INFORMAT ION We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with the relevant independence requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, the related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU AUDIT REGULATION We were elected as group auditor by the annual general meeting on 10 May 2017. We were engaged by the supervisory board on 29 June 2017. We have been the group auditor of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz, without interruption since the financial year 2015. We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor’s report are consistent with the additional report to the audit committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form audit report). GERMAN PUBLIC AUDITOR RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ENGAGEMENT The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is Dr. Ulrich Störk. Mannheim, 21 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dr. Ulrich Störk ppa. Christina Pöpperl Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2017 DIGITAL TRANSF ORMATION GRO U P M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 175 I n de pe n de n t Au di to r’s R e po rt Gl o ssary GLOS SARY ABBREVIATIONS Business Innovation Lab setting and implementing internaA think tank where a KSB team tional labour and social standards. ANSI develops future-proof business American National Standards models for the age of digitalisation Make in India Institute Indian government campaign to CE marking boost India’s domestic economy API The CE marking documents that American Petroleum Institute goods are in conformity with the One Belt, One Road health and safety requirements of Chinese government project to API 610 the European Union. ­develop an intercontinental infraNew edition of a centrifugal pump structure network between China code for the petrochemical industry Downstream and countries in Asia, Europe and Activities in the oil and gas indusAfrica GDP try are categorised as upstream Gross domestic product or downstream. The term “downRapid prototyping stream” is used to describe the See additive manufacturing ISO 14001 processing of crude oil into petroInternational standard stipulating leum products. Retrofitting requirements for environmental Refurbishment of pumps as an management systems GHG Protocol ­alternative to buying new products (Greenhouse Gas Protocol) IMF Standard for measuring CO² and SAP C4C International Monetary Fund other greenhouse gas emissions Cloud-based IT solution for customer relationship management in VDMA IE5 synchronous Sales and Service Verband Deutscher Maschinenreluctance motor und Anlagenbau e. V. Highly energy-efficient motors Stakeholders [German ­Engineering Federation] whose specially designed rotor Groups of persons that are directly laminations guide the lines of or indirectly affected by the KEY CORPORATE ­magnetic flux. Rare earths are not ­activities of a company; KSB’s main AND TECHNICAL TERMS required to manufacture these stakeholders are our customers, ­motors. suppliers, investors, employees and Additive manufacturing the public. Previously referred to as rapid Installed Base ­prototyping; it describes a process KSB sales channel for expanding UN Global Compact which enables quick and cost-­ business in the area of spare parts United Nations initiative for reeffective production of patterns, and support services sponsible company management samples, prototypes, tools and based on ten universal principles final products. International Labour ­O rganisation (ILO) The specialised agency of the ­United Nations is responsible for 176 GENER A L INFORMAT ION CONTACTS EDITOR As a signatory to the United Nations Global KSB SE & Co. KGaA Compact , KSB is committed to endorsing the Johann-Klein-Str. 9 ten principles of the international community 67227 Frankenthal, Germany in the areas of human rights, labour standards, Tel. +49 6233 86-0 environmental protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 ONLINE NEWS You will find the latest news A print version of the KSB Group’s Annual Report is ­additionally available on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com in German. We also publish German and English versions online in PDF and HTML formats at http://annualreport2017.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: INVESTOR RELATIONS Dieter Pott Tel. +49 6233 86-2615 Fax +49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com COMMUNICATIONS Ullrich Bingenheimer Tel. +49 6233 86-2138 Fax +49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com CONCEPT AND DESIGN KSB Communications, Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PHOTOGRAPHY KSB Image Library Robert Kwiatek, Frankenthal (p. 4 / 5, 6, 27, 36 / 37, 40 / 41, 44 / 45, 48 / 49) Kenneth Dupuis, USA (p. 52 / 53) Kevin Brown, USA (title, p. 50) Habitat for Humanity (p. 22, top left) Egbert Schmitt, Halle (p. 27, top right) Vikas Shinde, India (p. 22, bottom right) Getty Images (p. 22, bottom left) PRINTING Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH, Ottweiler FI NA NCIAL CALE NDAR 28 MARCH 2018 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 29 MARCH 2018 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 27 APRIL 2018 Interim report January – March 2018 16 MAY 2018 Annual General Meeting 10:00, Frankenthal 14 AUGUST 2018 Half-year financial report January – June 2018 8 NOVEMBER 2018 Interim report January – September 2018 GLOBAL P RE SE NCE Backed up by production and assembly sites around the world, as well as a tight-knit sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand. KSB production / assembly sites KSB sales / service sites GGLLOOBA BALLE PPRREÄSSE ENNCZE EU R OP E M I DDL E EAST / A F R I C A A S I A / PA C I F I C A ME R I C A S Austria Norway Algeria Australia Argentina Belarus Poland Egypt China Brazil Belgium Portugal Ghana India Chile Croatia Russia Iran Indonesia Canada Czech Republic Serbia Kenya Japan Columbia Estonia Slovak Republic Morocco Kazakhstan Mexico Finland Slovenia Oman Malaysia Peru France Spain Qatar New Zealand U SA Germany Sweden Saudi Arabia Pakistan Hungary Switzerland South Africa Philippines Italy The Netherlands Turkey Singapore Latvia Ukraine United Arab Emirates South Korea Luxembourg United Kingdom Zambia Taiwan Thailand Vietnam KSB SE & Co. KGaA 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
