CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 TO THE READER In 2017, we focused especially on responsible materials, both in our own brand Contents garments as well as our shopping bags. Already 55% of Lindex garments are 3 Stockmann in brief made of sustainable materials and Stockmann’s own brands reached 10%, 4 CSR principles after piloting with the first sustainable garments only a year earlier. A significant 6 CSR strategy increase can already be foreseen for the year 2018. We set the course for reduc8 Reporting principles and ing plastic bags, and since then, our efforts have helped to reduce the use of hundreds of thousands of bags every month. materiality 9 Stakeholder engagement In this review, we share our targets and progress towards more responsible 10 Customers business and inspiring our customers with sustainable choices. Have a good 14 Personnel read, and please direct any questions and comments to csr@stockmann.com. 22 Products and Supply Chain 31 Environment Johanna Stenbäck 37 Finance and Governance CSR Manager 42 GRI Content Index READ MORE All reviews are available in Finnish, Swedish and English at year2017.stockmanngroup.com VUOSI 2017 TALOUSKATSAUS 2017 HALLINNOINTI 2017 Our Year 2017 Financial Review 2017 Corporate Governance 2017 ABOUT THE REPORT The Stockmann Group’s reporting consists of four reviews: ‘Our year 2017’ Business Review, Financial Review, Corporate Governance, and this Corporate Social Responsibility review, which presents our CSR themes, targets and progress in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. All the annual reviews are available in English, Finnish and Swedish at year2017.stockmanngroup.com. 3 STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 STOCKMANN IN BRIEF Stockmann, founded in 1862, is a Finnish listed company engaged in the retail trade. The Group has three business divisions: Lindex, Stockmann Retail and Real Estate, about 47 000 shareholders and about 7 000 employees. The company has 8 department stores, 490 fashion stores and 5 properties in a total of 18 countries. The head office is located in Helsinki, Finland. In addition, the company has purchasing offices in the most important production countries for its own brand garments: Bangladesh, India, China, Pakistan and Turkey. Stockmann offers the best selection of international brands, excellent customer service and experiences in modern and inspirational FROM THE CEO multichannel shopping environments. Our vision is to be the first source of inspiration for our customers for modern urban life. “Stockmann supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Accordingly, Stockmann promotes human rights, labour rights, environmental work and anti-corruption measures. This report is also the Stockmann Group’s Communication on Progress (COP) for Global Compact.” STORES IN 18 COUNTRIES Lauri Veijalainen CEO LINDEX STOCKMANN RETAIL The CEO’s review is available in the ‘Our Year 2017’ Business review. REAL ESTATE OWN STORES FRANCHISING STORES 4 CSR PRINCIPLES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 CSR PRINCIPLES Commitment to responsible operations is at the core of Stockmann’s values and daily ways of working. Our value proposition is to provide a premium shopping experience at department, fashion and online stores. In our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work this means commitment to sustainable development and offering our customers responsible shopping experiences. 5 CSR PRINCIPLES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 O ur CSR work covers the entire Key value chain in Stockmann’s commitoperations. Responsibility starts in the supply chain, ments from ensuring safe working conditions to minimizing environmental impacts. We want to offer our customers the • UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Convention on choice of responsibly produced products in the Rights of the Child our selections. We place the customer at the We are committed to contri• ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work core and pay close attention to employee buting to the United Nations • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Sustainable Development wellbeing as well as environmental aspects. • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Goals (SDGs). We have We guarantee the safety of our products and since 2018 identified four goals that are inspire our customers to make responsible most material to our core • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals since 2016 choices. business and that we can have • UN’s Global Compact initiative since 2011 the most effect on. Our responsibility work is guided by • amfori BSCI Code of Conduct (before Business Social Stockmann’s strategy and values, the CSR Compliance Initiative, BSCI) on group level since 2005 strategy, Stockmann’s Code of Conduct, RESPONSIBLE • Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh national laws and regulations, and internasince 2013 CONSUMPTION AND tional treaties, declarations and recommendaPRODUCTION tions. Our everyday work is also guided by numerous voluntary commitments and DECENT WORK initiatives, as well as other principles, AND ECONOMIC Stockmann’s Code of Conduct policies and practices, such as human Code defines the ways of working for GROWTH rights principles, anti-corruption policy, human resources policy, of all employees and management staff without exception. The CLIMATE environmental policy, and product Conduct principles of the Code of Conduct also apply to its ACTION guidelines. suppliers and partners and covers Stockmann operates in an ethical the following main themes: manner, complying with the international • Compliance with legislation PARTNERSHIPS and ethical operations FOR THE GOALS and national laws and regulations valid at any given time in the countries in which it oper• Free competition and consumer rights ates. In its business operations, Stockmann • Employees and working conditions aims to exceed the minimum requirements • Environment stipulated by laws, regulations or conventions. • Corruption and conflicts of interest. 6 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 CSR themes CSR and priorities STRATEGY CSR STR ATEGY // 20 16 –20 18 The CSR strategy for 2016-2018 defines CUSTOMER Inspiration for responsible choices Stockmann’s priorities and goals of its responsibility work. We set tangible PERSONNEL Motivated and engaged retail experts targets with concrete actions to further improve our status as a responsible PRODUCTS High-quality selection with sustainable choices and transparent supply chain corporate citizen. ENVIRONMENT Reduced impact on the environment FINANCE AND Profitability with a sustainable GOVERNANC business approach 7 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 T he CSR goals have been set to support the Group strategy and the aims of our business operations by enhancing customer focus and improving efficiency. The goals are grouped under five CSR themes material to Stockmann, and they cover the whole value chain. We work determinedly to meet these goals. Open dialogue and co-operation with our stakeholders, and communication and reporting about advancements in our responsibility work are an essential part of our work. The targets, action points, KPIs and progress in 2017 are presented in a table in connection with each relevant theme. Lindex’s ambition is to become one of the most sustainable, open and trusted companies in the fashion industry. Lindex seeks to drive change. Sustainability is considered from a lifecycle perspective, from initial design sales OUR CSR VISION // and use, continuing to reuse and finally recyWe offer our customers cling when the clothing is no longer wearable. responsible shopping experiences. Ambitious goals involve fibres, processes We are committed to working and manufacturing. By 2020, 80% of Lindex’s garments will be made from more sustainable for a more sustainable future. materials, with more sustainable processes and at more sustainable production facilities. 100% of cotton will be either organic cotton, BCI cotton (Better Cotton Initiative) or recycled cotton. 8 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 REPORTING STOCKMANN’S CSR THEME STOCKMANN’S MATERIAL TOPICS TOPIC BOUNDARY PRINCIPLES AND CUSTOMER Customer Satisfaction Own operations MATERIALITY Marketing and Labelling Customer Privacy PERSONNEL Employment Own operations This CSR review presents the focus areas and results of the StockLabour and Management Relations mann Group’s responsibility work according to Global Reporting Occupational Health and Safety Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This report has been prepared in Training and Education accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Diversity and Equal Opportunity T Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining he reporting period for this review describing personnel and the environment are Non-discrimination is the financial year (from 1 January reported only for Finland. These exceptions to 31 December 2017). The previand the measurement and accounting policies PRODUCTS Customer Health and Safety Own brands’ supply chain and ous report, CSR review 2016, was are described in connection with the relevant Materials own imports, published on 3rd March 2017. indicator. The goal is to gradually expand and Procurement Practices safety and The review covers all of the Stockmann unify our reporting to make it more compreprocurement Supplier Environmental and Social Assessment practices in own Group’s continuing operations. The Stockhensive. operations mann Delicatessen business, sold on 31 The report has not been reviewed in full December 2017, is classified as discontinued by a third party. Financial indicators, which are ENVIRONMENT Energy Own operations operations. The environmental figures cover presented in the financial statements, are Effluents and Waste Own operations and indirect CO2 the operations of our tenants in department audited by authorized public accountants. emissions for store properties. The supply chain is covered Stockmann’s subsidiary Lindex pubselected parts to the extent defined in the materiality analylishes a CSR report of its own, with more Anti-corruption Own operations sis. detailed information about its CSR work, at The GRI indicators have been selected lindex.com. FINANCE & Anti-competitive Behaviour Own operations according to materiality. Our goal is to report GOVERNANCE Human Rights Assessment Own operations and own brands’ the relevant indicators from our main operatMATERIALITY ASSESSMENT supply chain ing countries, which are Finland and Sweden, Korruptionvastaisuus Own operations based on the revenue and employee count. Our work focuses on those CSR topics and Due to reporting differences within the activities that are most important, or material, Kilpailun rajoittaminen Own operations Group’s divisions, some of the indicators to our business. Looking at materiality is an 9 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 STAKEHOLDER ongoing process at Stockmann. Our Stockmann engages in active and ongoing dialogue with its materiality assessment is based on a stakeholders to strengthen relations and better respond to the expectations and wishes placed on it. In our CSR strategy work, ENGAGEMENT broad stakeholder survey that was conducted over the years 2012-2013, on the we have identified five key stakeholder groups that most affect basis of which we have defined the and are affected by our business. Group’s key CSR themes and the topics and indicators to report. During the preparation of the Stockmann CSR strategy 2016-2018, the materiality analysis and CSR themes were revisited, re-evaluated and updated where needed. CUSTOMERS PERSONNEL SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS In 2017, the materiality assessment was Customers are an especially important We value our personnel and their commitStockmann aims to be an attractive and updated in accordance with the requirestakeholder group, and one of our values ment to the company. Our goal is to be a sought-after investment target on the ments of the GRI standards, identifying 22 is to inspire our customers. We are in sought-after employer on the labour capital market. We provide shareholder direct dialogue with customers in various market. We work continuously to improve and investor information, as is the requiretopics relevant to reporting. ways, including in stores, through custhe working atmosphere and dialogue ment for listed companies, through stock tomer service and social media, and use a with employees. We carry out dialogue in exchange announcements, financial variety of tools to allow stores to better many ways and measure organisational reports and the annual reporting, the understand customer needs and expectahealth and performance. Group’s website, audio webcasts, regular To address the aspects specific to its tions. investor relations meetings and the business, Lindex engages in a continuous Annual General Meeting of shareholders. materiality assessment of its own, to gain insight from its stakeholders and to complement the Group materiality assessment. In 2017, a new assessment was carried out at Lindex, based on GOODS SUPPLIERS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS AUTHORITIES AND ORGANISATIONS continuous stakeholder engagement and Long relationships with goods suppliers and service providers We engage in dialogue with authorities and organisations by a large stakeholder survey involving are key to our sustainability work and continuous improveutilizing networks, memberships in several organisations and employees, company management, the ment in production. All suppliers are expected to follow the in connection with development projects. We are in dialogue Board, selected NGOs and other organiStockmann Code of Conduct. We engage in active direct and cooperate with NGOs and participate in different types of dialogue, especially with the suppliers and producers of our charity projects. We provide information on our website, sations, media, students and suppliers. own brands, through our buyers and local purchasing offices, respond to specific information requests and take part in Along with the brand tracking results, e.g. through regular meetings and audits. seminars and meetings. materiality analysis guides Lindex’s CSR reporting and communication. Focus areas include, in particular, responsible production and materials, circular economy, working conditions, transparency and purchasing practices. 10 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 CUSTOMERS Customers are an especially important stakeholder group and one of the company’s values. Stockmann’s value ‘We inspire our customers’ strongly guides the company’s operations. We respect and listen to our customers and make every customer encounter special. We work actively on improving our dialogue with customers to better understand their needs and expectations regarding Stockmann. Stockmann complies with valid competition and privacy legislation in its operations and promotes free competition in its sector. 11 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 T he Stockmann department stores are known for their customerTARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) AND C SR THEME ACTION POINTS PROGRESS 2017 STATUS oriented service. Excellent, professional customer service is achieved through regular personnel training, CUSTOMER We build ongoing We continued active dialogue with all stakeholders. Our Net In process dialogue to raise Promoter Score (NPS) at department stores in Finland was starting from the comprehensive induction of customer satisfaction 41, which is not yet on the long-term target level of 60 (scale INSPIRATION new employees. We focus on providing a -100+100). 85% of Lindex’s customers in Sweden, Finland FOR RESPONand Norway said that they would be likely or very likely to best-in-class service that exceeds customer’s SIBLE CHOICES recommend Lindex’s store to friends or acquaintances. expectations. Customer satisfaction surveys and customer and employee feedback proWe share information We shared information in department stores, stores, On target vide valuable information that guides the about CSR work and through our personnel, in social media, through (press) sustainable choices releases and in our responses to customers, media, and Group’s divisions in developing their operaNGOs. Our target is to inspire our customers even more tions. Information concerning customer with sustainable choices. relationships is utilized in improving customer We engage in CSR and We donated sample products, materials and food through On target service and sales, in daily management of charity projects on a our charity partners and engaged in charity projects, such personnel, in developing the skills, regular basis as Lindex’s pink ribbon and round-up campaigns. remuneration and commitment and in the We ensure There were zero incidents of breaches of customer privacy, On target design of training programmes. Customer Privacy as targeted. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Stockmann and Lindex each use separate customer feedback channels. The quality of customer service and average response times mas and during the Crazy Days campaigns, for customer queries are followed closely with • All feedback gathered through encounters at during and after which the response times quick and easy thumbs up or down questions. the department stores, over the phone, via are longer than usual. Both business units monitor the development email and social media are gathered for • Customer experience is measured by regular of customer satisfaction and brand image in analysis. Everyone who has asked for a email inquiries sent to loyal customers. One numerous ways. response will be contacted. Customer of the survey metrics is the Net Promoter feedback is also made visible to people Score (NPS), which measures the likelihood working in support functions. that a customer will recommend a service, • The quality of the customer service and the and which is also one of our strategic Key average response time are measured with Performance Indicators. “thumbs up or down” questions. Peak times • Social media is an increasingly important for customer feedback occur before Christchannel for our customers to express their 12 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 opinions. We serve different target groups Tips for choosing and equipment, batteries, fluorescent lamps on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and taking care of clothing and energy saving bulbs and nail polish to LinkedIn Stockmann department stores. • Topics that collected the most customer • Electronic devices and batteries can also be feedback were the Crazy Days campaign, • As part of our excellent customer service, returned to the department stores in the the online store and its logistics, customer customers are offered information on how Stockmann departBaltics. service in general, the selection, shopping to use and wash products, and on recycling ment stores started • Various recycling campaigns are organized bags and the new shopping bag charge. alternatives, so that the lifecycle of the co-operation with the in co-operation with Stockmann’s suppliproduct can be extended, and environEmmy online shop ers. For example, a campaign to recycle mental impacts can be minimized. that sells secondfrying pans, cutlery and cookware was • Customer feedback is collected through • We also offer fashion consultant and organized with Hackman, and the hand brand clothing. regular customer inquiries both in stores sewing services to support the choice of Knowledge Cotton Apparel brand collects and online in nine operating countries. products that are tailored to the customer Lindex collected a second-hand clothes continuously. • Feedback is also collected through social total of 150 tonnes media, e-mails and phone calls to cusof textiles from its tomer service, through brand tracking, and • Lindex’s website and store materials procustomers. • Lindex piloted textile collection in Sweden through in-depth interviews with selected vide tips and product care instructions for back in 2014. Today, Lindex’s customers customer groups. washing, drying and repairing clothes can hand in used textiles and clothes for READ MORE • Most feedback concerned selection and aimed at reducing environmental impact. www.stockmanngroup.com/ recycling and reuse at all stores in Sweden, campaigns, the One Bag Habit campaign Sales personnel are trained to advise en/csr Norway and Finland, and the number of related to charging for shopping bags, customers on this subject. clothes collected multiplied from the sustainability topics, especially chemicals, previous year. In 2017, and the More at Lindex customer loyalty Opportunities to recycle Lindex collected a total of programme. 150 (27) tonnes of textiles, which are reused and • Stockmann department stores started recycled through partners. SERVICES TO SUPPORT A co-operation with the Emmy online shop The ‘Reuse and recycle’ RESPONSIBLE LIFESTYLE that sells second-hand brand clothing. An programme is a part of Emmy collection box can be found at each Lindex’s long term ambiWe provide our customers with responsible department store in Finland. Using the tion to close the material shopping experiences, and information on boxes, our customers can recycle their loop. sustainable choices and our CSR work. Our clothes using Emmy’s full service and even goal is to inspire our customers to make collect their sales profit in the form of a responsible choices and to provide services Stockmann gift card. that support this goal. • In Finland customers can return used electrical appliances and electronic 13 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 MARKETING customer magazine prompted lively debate in cled polyester. On the on customer privacy is included in the new AND LABELLING social media about the gender roles of chilother side of the hangemployee induction programme. dren. However, no formal complaint was filed. tag, there’s more In 2017 the Stockmann loyal customer Stockmann respects the rights of the conDuring the reporting period, Stockmann detailed information programme had approximately 1.1 million loyal sumer and engages in responsible marketing. received an exemption from the Finnish about the material. customers and More at Lindex 4.6 million This policy is included in the group-wide Code Advisory Council for Ethics concerning a • The Design From Finland members. The companies keep in touch with of Conduct. Our marketing communications complaint made in 2016 about mannequin label indicates that the product has been their loyal customers on a regular basis and offer are performed according to the Consolidated dolls in a Stockmann department store. designed in Finland, at Stockmann’s own them exclusive deals and benefits with a monICC Code on Advertising and Marketing In December, a complaint was made to fashion studio. etary value. The loyal customer systems’ data file Communication Practice, the Consumer the RO about a Lindex outdoor marketing descriptions can be found on the units’ respecProtection Act and our marketing strategy. campaign presenting women’s underwear . tive websites. Each of the loyal customer proThe ads were perceived as discriminating • The Sustainable Choice grammes has its own customer registers, comMarketing communications against female sex. Lindex received an exemplabel indicates that the piled in order to manage customer relationships Our marketing communications avoid all tion on the matter in February 2018. e. product is made with and for customer service and marketing purmisleading practices, such as false or decepmaterials with a poses. The personal data of Stockmann’s tive messages and omission of important Product information reduced environmental customers and of shareholders attending its information. Our marketing should never be We comply with statutory labelling, in addition impact and/or with more General Meetings is handled confidentially in inappropriate or offensive. These practices are to which voluntary labels that reflect product sustainable processes. In Lindex’s collecaccordance with the applicable legislation. known and followed by all of the company’s sustainability may be attached to products. If tions these are for example Better Cotton, During the year, Stockmann received marketing planners and are overseen by the fashion products are made from materials organic cotton, recycled cotton, lyocell, several queries from customers regarding the Marketing Director of each business. with reduced environmental impact, such as recycled polyamide, recycled polyester and use of personal data. These queries were dealt Lindex has its own brand strategy and organic cotton or recycled fibres, this is clearly recycled wool. with on a case-by-case basis, and appropriate marketing guidelines regarding images, marked using a hangtag, a print or on the • The Premium Quality label stands for measures were taken depending on the nature tonality, choice of models, retouch manageproduct packaging, as well as in the product premium fibres, such as wool or silk, being of the inquiry. In 2017 none of them led to ment etc. as well as social media guidelines. information in the online store. used in the product. follow-up measures. There were no complaints Lindex is a member of the self-regulatory We tell our customers about the origin • Most of the products’ neck labels are made or statements from the authorities on the loyal Swedish Advertising Ombudsman (RO) of the products. The country of origin is of recycled polyester. customer systems or the handling of the perorganisation, founded by the industry to marked on all of Stockmann’s own brand sonal data. review and maintain standards. RO receives garments and home textiles as well as on all CUSTOMER PRIVACY Stockmann is preparing for the entry into complaints about advertising and assesses Lindex’s garments. effect of the EU General Data Protection Regulawhether the advertising follows the ConsoliStockmann and its employees respect the tion, which is (designed to harmonize data dated ICC Code. RO also provides informaprivacy and inviolability of the rights of its cusprivacy laws across Europe. tion, guidance and training in the field of • Products with a Sustaintomers. We do not reveal or use customer ethical marketing. able DESIGN label are information other than in strict accordance with In December 2017, the children’s wear made with organic Stockmann’s customer privacy policy. Training on the cover page of the Stockmann’s loyal cotton, lyocell or recy14 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 PERSONNEL Motivated and engaged retail experts are the backbone of our business. We treat our employees fairly and equally according to the principle of equal opportunities. Employees are paid a fair level of remuneration for their work, and their personal and professional growth and development is encouraged. We encourage our employees to look after their wellbeing and we provide them with healthy and safe working conditions. Our aim is to be an attractive and well-liked employer in the labour market. 15 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 T he Stockmann Group’s Human Resources (HR) policies are based C SR TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) on the company’s values, HR THEMES ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2017 STATUS strategy and Code of Conduct, on top of which the divisions have PERSONNEL We increase wellbeing Stockmann’s Organisational Health Index (OHI) score was improved to 54 On target their own more detailed HR policies that at work (2016: 38) and reached our target of 50 (scale 0-100). Our ambitious further support the success of individuals and the MOTIVATED AND target is to reach 65 in the 2018 OHI survey, that measures employee wellbeing and the ability of our organisation to reach its full potential. wellbeing of the personnel. The implementaENGAGED RETAIL tion of good HR policies is monitored through EXPERTS We promote clear work Approximately 95% of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland had performance In progress personnel surveys, performance appraisal roles and targets and development discussions with their superiors, nearly our target, 100%. In addition, group development discussions were introduced in store operations discussions and other feedback channels. to increase inclusion. At Lindex, all permanent employees have annual Co-operation also takes place in local personemployee appraisal meetings with their manager. nel committees and the Group Employee We ensure safe working In Finland, 85 accidents were reported at workplace and 52 on the journey to On target Council. The Human Resources Director, who environment and from work (2016: 148+86). In Sweden, there was a total of 142 (132) reports to the CEO of Stockmann Group, is reported workplace accidents. The Group’s accident rate was 25 (32) accidents responsible for the HR of the company. per million working hours, as targeted. For 2018, the target is not more than 20. EMPLOYMENT The Stockmann Group is a significant employer in Finland and Sweden. In the case stores. With the deal, almost 700 employees As part of this, it will streamline operations of Finland, the development in the recent moved to the new employer as existing especially at the Gothenburg Headquarters years has not promoted employment, but has employees. The staff of the Finnish Delicatesand support functions in Sweden, Norway rather sought to safeguard the existing staff, sen and Central Kitchen are not included in and Finland. The changes are planned to lead Group while the company has focused on its core the staff figures reported for 2017. For the to the reduction of approximately 100 posidevelopment activities and has let go of non-core activities reference figures, the limitation is given on a tions, mainly during the first part of 2018. The discussions were and streamlined its operations. per-indicator basis. number of sales personnel will not be introduced in store In June, Stockmann and the S Group In the autumn of 2017, Riga’s warehouse reduced. agreed on a transaction where the Stockmann operations were moved to the distribution As part of the streamlining efforts, operations to Delicatessen business in Finland was sold to centre in Tuusula, southern Finland. As a Stockmann initiated co-operation negotiaincrease inclusion. the S Group’s cooperatives. The Finnish result, the work of 41 employees came to an tions in January 2018 which concerned about Competition and Consumer Authority issued end. All the employees that were laid off were 350 people in supply chain, finance and HR their approval for the sale in December, and offered alternative work in other positions in positions in Finland and may lead to the the transaction was completed on 31 Decemthe company. reduction of some 95 positions. ber 2017. Stockmann will continue its own Lindex launched an extensive profitabilDelicatessen business in its Baltic department ity and efficiency programme in October 2017. 16 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS EMPLOYEES BY DIVISION In retail the need for fixed-term employees is • Lindex offers internships both at the Head high, as the summer and Christmas seasons Office and in stores and it cooperates with STOCKMANN RETAIL 32% increase the need for seasonal employees. different universities regarding internship REAL ESTATE  2% Use of supervised workers or self-employed positions. GROUP’S SHARED workers is minimal at the Stockmann Group, • At the Head Office there are about 20 FUNCTTIONS  2% the former being limited to some cases in interns per year and most of them are LINDEX 63% marketing. placed in the Design and Purchasing PURCHASING OFFICES 2% Department. • At Lindex stores, extra workforce is needed • The number of fixed-term employees at around the summer and Christmas holiEMPLOYEES Stockmann has decreased, while seasonal days. This need is solved mainly by offering BY COUNTRY workers at the department stores for Crazy more hours to part-time employees and Days and Christmas are now recruited extra employees connected to the store. 39% 3 000 through a recruitment agency. Each year, Lindex employs about 20 sea30% 30% 2 500 • The Stockmann department stores and sonal employees to work at the Head 2 000 Lindex offer many young people an opporOffice during the summer and Christmas 1 500 tunity to become familiar with the retail holidays. 1 000 sector, e.g. in the form of the practical 500 training periods of various educational EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 0 FINLAND SWEDEN OTHER institutions. Stockmann employed 300 The Stockmann Group offers its personnel the (220) summer employees and 330 (360) benefits required by local legislation in each of MEN WOMEN interns during the reporting year. In 2017, the countries in which it operates. These we invested in our outreach efforts directed benefits may include occupational health at young people by cooperating with services, insurance against occupational FIXED-TERM / FULL-TIME / PERMANENT PART-TIME Laurea University of Applied Sciences, injuries and diseases, parental leave and participating in the Chamber of Comretirement benefits. Personnel benefits do not 7 000 6 000 merce’s 1000 Young Leaders project and vary between part-time and full-time employ82% 62% 6 000 5 000 offering trainee positions under the 100 ees. 5 000 4 000 Years of Work Available (Annetaan 100 In most countries, the employees are 4 000 38% 3 000 3 000 vuotta töitä) programme. offered benefits that clearly go beyond the 2 000 18% 2 000 • A number of people working in sales requirements set by legislation, such as health 1 000 1 000 positions at Stockmann department stores insurance and meal benefits. All employees 0 0 are employees of Stockmann’s tenants in, can purchase products using an employee FIXED-TERM PERMANENT FULL-TIME PART-TIME for example, restaurants and departments discount in stores belonging to the Group. In MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN of Stockmann’s partners. addition, employees can purchase e.g. sample 17 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 clothing at a budget price in personnel sales. LABOUR AND Two employee representatives particiFederation. Stockmann will continue to Long-serving employees are awarded with a MANAGEMENT pate in meetings of Stockmann’s Board of have a good dialogue with the shop stewmedal. In all units, employees are rewarded on Directors and they have the right to attend and ard of the senior salaried employees and their 50th birthday. Stockmann supports RELATIONS speak at Board meetings. One of these reprewith the association representing Stockrecreational and leisure activities for permaThe Stockmann Group monitors the implesentatives is elected by the employee repremann’s Senior salaried employees, SYT. nent employees, for instance by supporting mentation of good HR practices through sentatives of Stockmann’s Group Council and • Co-operation was developed on the initiasports possibilities and through various staff personnel surveys, performance appraisal the other by the association representing tive of elected representatives, by agreeing clubs. Stockmann employees are rewarded for discussions and other feedback channels. We Stockmann’s senior salaried employees. on co-operation and reforms in the field of 30 years of service with additional holiday and promote a culture of openness and strive to local co-operation meetings. The amendemployees are also remembered on their communicate about issues concerning our ments will be confirmed during spring 2018 60th birthday. Lindex employees in Sweden personnel as quickly as possible by going • It is our target that a performance and at Stockmann’s Group Council. are rewarded for 25 years of service. through Stockmann’s financial performance as development discussion is conducted at • Stockmann was the top riser of the year in well as by setting goals for our performance in least once a year with each Stockmann the employer image survey conducted by these areas. There is a need to continue employee. In executive and expert posiUniversum, a market research company. improving communication about structural tions, a development discussion is held Stockmann ranked 32nd in a survey that changes so that it reaches all personnel cattwice a year. Implementation is monitored: targeted professionals with a higher educaegories, including those who are absent. in 2017 about 95% of Stockmann’s persontion degree, up 15 places on the previous nel in Finland had performance and develyear’s rank of 47. opment discussions with their supervisors. • The incentive programme now covers Furthermore, in 2017 additional group every Stockmann employee, as the incendevelopment discussions were introduced tive schemes were renewed in 2017. Sales, in sales to increase inclusion. warehouse and support personnel and the • In Finland, the Stockmann Group’s divimanagement have their own designated sions have their own Employees’ Councils incentive schemes, which aim to encourthat convene four times a year. A similar age and motivate our employees to aim for model is followed in the Baltic countries. top results and to inspire customers. Human resources matters concerning Finland are handled at the Group Council, whose meetings are held twice annually. • All Lindex employees have an annual • In the spring of 2017, the Finnish Comdevelopment discussion with their superviFashion merce Federation and the organisation sor. The target discussions under the show for representing senior salaried employees, performance programme were held at the personnel YTN, agreed to promote co-operation Lindex headquarters and the distribution between the trade unions and companycentre in Sweden, every two months, as in Stockmann’s own employees and their children posed as models in a fashion show put together by a group of volunteers, to present the specific dialogue. YTN became a partner in the previous year. As part of the open fall 2017 collection of Stockmann’s own brands to the personnel. a future project by the Finnish Commerce communication, quarterly results and 18 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 strategy meetings are held for all employOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, included the renewal of guidance for sentative and the HR department. Different ees by the Lindex CEO. Along with the SAFETY AND WELLBEING remote work, allowing more personnel to modes of support for the return to work, Group and Lindex strategy, future developtake advantage of remote work. In Novemsuch as work in trial periods or part-time ment areas are presented in these meetOccupational health care is arranged in ber, we took part in the national ‘bring your sick leave, are actively used at Stockmann. ings and questions are answered. Each accordance with local laws and regulations in child to work’ day, a day dedicated to The company also has a drug abuse year after the summer holidays, an inspiraall countries of operation. Employee wellbeing introducing children to the everyday work programme to intervene in cases involving tional event with varied topics from the and occupational safety are discussed regulife of their closest adults, as well as making substance abuse. The principles of this management, related to the Lindex vision larly in the Employees’ Councils, which operuse of children’s fresh ideas at the workprogramme are updated regularly. and strategies, is held for all Lindex employate in accordance with the requirements of place. • As part of its normal operations, Stockees. local legislation and represent all personnel • Small events to boost wellbeing at work mann’s occupational health services take • Lindex conducts regular dialogue with groups. Employee wellbeing is measured included a ‘take the stairs’ theme week, the the working ability perspective into considtrade unions, to discuss for example wages, through employee surveys both at Stockmann ‘sports day of your dreams’ event at the eration with every appointment and advise organisational changes, and other issues and Lindex units. Takomotie office, wellbeing days at Itis, employees on severe work-related disraised by trade unions. voluntary eyesight inspections and a sports eases and any other risks associated with weekend lottery by Otium, a foundation work, and give recommendations where FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION • An Organisational Health Index (OHI) that supports employee wellbeing at necessary, for example for a more suitable AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING survey was carried out among Stockmann’s Stockmann. work station. Supportive management The Stockmann Group respects the basic employees for the fourth consecutive year • Stockmann announced to became a practices, a safe working environment and rights of its employees, such as freedom of to measure employee wellbeing and the smoke-free workplace in 2017. The decision the possibility of varied nutrition during the association and collective bargaining. In ability of our organisation to reach its full was based on the desire to increase equal work day are also considered part of the Finland, approximately 80 (76) % of the potential. The score had improved signifitreatment and to promote health and support for employees’ ability to work. Stockmann Group’s personnel are covered by cantly from one year ago to 54 (2016: 38) wellbeing at work. Occupational health Information on preventative action is also collective agreements. All Lindex employees in and reached our target of 50 (scale 0-100). provides support for reducing or quitting given out during the Group’s occupational Sweden, Norway and Finland, excluding However, the score still represents the smoking if needed. safety day event. senior salaried employees, are covered by a lowest quartile in international comparison. • Stockmann uses an early intervention collective bargaining agreement. The comOur ambitious further target is to reach 65 model to follow up and support employees pany does not monitor the extent of union in the 2018 OHI survey. at an early stage in order to promote their membership, but it does compile statistics on • The issues and concerns expressed by working ability and health. A working ability 81 % those employees in Finland whose trade Stockmann’s personnel were employee discussion is a tool for managers, for union membership fee is deducted from their wellbeing and workload, shift planning in confidential discussion, and is recomsalary. In 2017, these employees accounted for department stores, which was developed in mended for use when something has 30 (30)% of the Group’s personnel working in general and to take individual situations changed in an employee’s ability to work. of Lindex employee Finland. In other countries of operation, better into account, and the development Follow-up for sickness absences requires survey respondents felt statistics on union membership have not been of know-how. co-operation between the manager and that they are committed collected. • Efforts to support work and family life the occupational health services, and to Lindex and their work. balance as well as equal opportunity sometimes involves a personnel repre19 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 on the company intranet. Lindex conducts TRAINING The roll-out will continue in 2018, e.g. • A staff survey is conducted regularly, on close cooperation with the occupational AND EDUCATION among sales and logistics personnel. alternating groups of respondents, so that health services, Previa, in work-related Lindex can become an even better workdiseases and any other risks associated Systematic, continuous training is a core part place. In March 2017, the questionnaire was with work, and for giving recommendations of our HR practices and is carried out mostly • The average amount of training per person sent to 2 600 employees in all operating where necessary, for example for a more through various internal training events and at Lindex in all operating countries was 10.1 countries, expect for Finland and the Head suitable work station. sessions involving representatives of different hours (2016: 8.8 hours in Sweden, excludOffice in Sweden, which were included in business and personnel groups. ing the Head Office, 72% of which was the survey in 2016, and Norway, which will SICKNESS ABSENCES AND training and 28% of induction). be in included in 2018. Commitment, WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS • Continuous professional development is perceived availability of information and Sickness absences are reported in the ‘Staff • The average number of training hours in the promoted through various in-house trainidentification with Lindex as a workplace figures 2017’ table. In Sweden, most accidents Stockmann Retail and Real Estate Busiing courses and events. In addition, exterwere at a high level compared with other were due to slipping and falling over things as nesses in Finland was 8.4 hours per nal management training is offered. companies of the same size. 81% of well as dropping and lifting things. None of the employee. There were a total of 20 000 (35 Employees at the head office were offered, respondents felt that they are committed to accidents led to severe injury. 000) hours of training. This includes trainamong other things, training for goal Lindex and their work. In 2016, medical occupational health care ing for sales supervisors, sales and product orientation and mindfulness classes. The • Identified development areas included covered all employees in Finland whose training, training towards a professional design and purchasing organisation offered teamwork, competence development for employment had continued for more than 4 qualification and other training to increase a one-year Talent programme. Other teams and individuals alike, goal setting, months, i.e. 1 989 (2 358) persons at year-end. professional competence. training topics targeted at certain categories optimizing organisation of work, impleThe occupational health care services of the • Stockmann organizes a wide range of of staff were stress-free productivity and mentation of the anti-harassment policy. Group’s units in Finland are arranged via the coaching sessions in Finland, regarding team leadership without manager position. • To support employee wellbeing, mindfulcompany’s own occupational health clinics and product competence, sales and service, For the management, the training included, ness classes were offered to personnel outsourced services. The personnel at the induction for new employees, and coaching among others, coaching, leadership and working at the Head Office and Distribution Group’s own clinics mainly serve employees in activities related to raising staff and custraining related to interview techniques. centre in Sweden. the Helsinki region. In other locations and at the tomer experience among other things. At • Performance management is used at Finnish Lindex stores, occupational health the beginning of 2017, all sales staff received SKILLS MANAGEMENT Lindex to follow-up and support employees services are provided through outsourcing. In training in a new sales concept in the form AND JOB ROTATION at an early stage in order to promote their Finland, the costs of occupational health of a game. In addition, the development of Continuous development at work and an working ability and health. Different modes services totalled EUR 1.4 (1.7) million. The net sales management work was launched in active internal labour market are Stockmann’s of support for the return to work after a cost of occupational health services was the autumn of 2017. strengths. Providing employees with the sickness absence, such as work in trial approximately EUR 330 (230) per employee in • Stockmann supports the combining of work opportunity to switch duties between diviperiods or part-time sick leave, are actively Finland. Information on the distribution by and studies, for example by providing sions, functions and countries promotes used at Lindex. The company also has a gender is currently not available. opportunities for apprenticeship training. learning and the retention of competent drug abuse programme to intervene in The roll-out of the Stockmann Group’s personnel in the company’s service. Many cases involving substance abuse. The Code of Conduct e-learning continued in members of the Group’s management have principles of this programme are available support functions and sales management. 20 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 experience gained from various parts of the The realization of equality is promoted in EMPLOYEES BY GENDER company, including customer service duties. all employment categories. Mutual respect MEN/WOMEN 2017 2016 2015 At Lindex, employees are encouraged to and abiding by mutually set rules are part of Entire staff*, % 9/91 10/90 13/87 try new roles within Lindex, at stores and this. In recruitment, we are open-minded With Director title, % 50/50 44/56 41/59 offices as well as at country organisations and towards the various backgrounds of the Group Management Team, persons (%) 6/6 (50/50) 6/5 (55/45) 9/2(82/18) the Head Office to gain new experiences and candidates. Job descriptions are designed to Board of Directors, persons (%) 6/2 (75/25) 5/3 (63/37) 5/3 (63/37) perspective. This is considered a success suit both women and men. We ensure that the * 2016-2017 Does not include personnel in the Delicatessen business in Finland, which is reported as discontinued operation. factor in developing Lindex further, and a way tasks, qualifications and titles are gender 2015-2017 Does not include the Department store business in Russia, which is reported as discontinued operation. to retain competent personnel. Opportunities neutral. Age, sex or beliefs are only considered for a transfer within the company are provided if there is a justified reason based on the through Lindex’s internal labour market, position. Different age groups are well repreEMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 2017 including internship opportunities in another sented in the company. To balance the age under 25 25-34 35-44 45-54 55 years old role for shorter periods. In 2017, a new talent breakdown among sales persons, we place MEN/WOMEN years old years old years old years old and older Entire staff, % 20 (6/94) 27(9/91) 21(13/87) 17(11/89) 13(18/82) programme was successfully piloted at the emphasis on recruiting competent middleGroup Management Team, persons (%) 0/3 6/2 Head Office, upgrading purchase assistants to aged female and male personnel as sales new roles. persons for Stockmann department stores. Does not include personnel in the Delicatessen business in Finland, which is reported as discontinued operation. Personnel planning has been developed to DIVERSITY AND EQUAL ensure equal treatment, for example regarding THE RATIO OF BASIC REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN the offering of additional working hours, and BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, STOCKMANN FINLAND OPPORTUNITY & the division of days off and Sunday work, and INDEX 2017 2016 2015 NON-DISCRIMINATION by renewing the guidance for remote work, Sales persons (hourly salary) 99 98 100 allowing more personnel to take advantage of Warehouse personnel (hourly salary) 95 94 98 Stockmann treats all of its employees fairly remote work. HR Business Partners work Office personnel (monthly salary) 96 97 97 and equally, and it values the diversity of its actively in co-operation with supervisors to Senior salaried employees and management (monthly salary) 80 83 87 employees. Discrimination is strictly forbiddeal with and anticipate potential cases of 2017 Does not include personnel in Delicatessen business in Finland, which is reported as discontinued operation. den. harassment, discrimination, equal opportuThe index is only indicative, as it does not take into account the diversity of job roles and descriptions in each category. nity, atmosphere and workload. Stockmann has an equality plan, which is united in their passion for fashion, customers ees, which in turn increases the company’s regularly updated and approved in the comLindex has its own equality and diversity plan. and trade. Lindex values and develops competitiveness and profitability. The great pany’s Employees’ Council. With the aid of The policy on harassment and discrimination employees’ job performance and skills regardmajority of Lindex personnel are women and it statistics, the purpose of the plan is to point was renewed and enforced during the year, to less of age or ethnicity, and it wants to be is considered a challenge to get men to seek out structural issues in work duties and to set clarify how to act in such situations and how to perceived as an attractive company for both employment in Lindex stores and to some improvement targets for achieving a more prevent violations. Diversity is seen as a women and men. Active equality and diversity extent in office positions too. The gender equal working environment. competitive advantage for an international work within Lindex contributes to increased balance is better in the support functions, for fashion company, where all employees are motivation and satisfaction among employexample IT and similar. 21 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 DIVERSIT Y OF GOVERNANCE EQUAL REMUNERATION OF that compares women’s salaries to men’s religion and other beliefs, age or parental leave BODIES AND EMPLOYEES WOMEN AND MEN salaries (index 100) per employee category. are not acceptable. The collective agreement When choosing the members of the Board of Equal remuneration is one of the areas in the The latest update of the index was on sets the guidelines for the salary audit. Directors, diversity is taken into account, so equality plan. 31.12.2017. The causes of pay differentials that the persons represent different fields and include, for example, the difference between INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION professions, international backgrounds, and job roles, level of requirements and individual During the reporting year, no cases of sexual varying age and gender. Information on the Remuneration of women and men working at competences within the same level of difharassment or religious or political discriminaaverage age of the employees is presented in Stockmann in Finland is monitored with the ficulty, which the index does not take into tion were raised at Stockmann. The HR departthe ‘Staff Figures’ table. aid of an index of monthly or hourly salaries account. Men work relatively more in superviment dealt with one complaint regarding sor and IT positions, which explains some discriminating behaviour by a supervisor. differences. During the reporting year, one case of harassSTAFF FIGURES ment was reported at AB Lindex, which was 2017 2016 2015 solved in co-operation between the Lindex HR Number of personnel 31 December 7325 7572 9734 In 2016, Lindex started a salary review to department and the trade union. In addition, in Finland (men/women) 362/1850 430/2133 974/3481 monitor any differences in salaries between one of the complaints filed in 2016 was comin Sweden (men/women) 116/2118 128/2254 128/2422 women and men in the same job roles. The pleted: the complaint concerned discrimination Personnel on average 7360 8164 10762 foundation of Lindex personnel policy is that against an applicant at Lindex Norway, and the Personnel as full time equivalents, on average 5486 5960 7643 salaries are market related and competitive as Equality Ombudsman decided that the comPersonnel by employment contract well as connected to the responsibility of the plaint was unfounded. In other countries of 18 (6/94)/ 17 (7/93)/ 20 (8/92)/ fixed-term (men/women) / permanent (men/women) 82 (10/90) 83 (11/89) 80 (15/85) role and achieved results. Differences in salary operation, no cases of discrimination or harassfixed-term (men/women) / permanent (men/women) in 10 (14/86)/ 8 (10/90)/ 17 (16/84)/ because of sex, functional limitation, ethnicity, ment were made or addressed. Finland 90 (17/83) 92 (17/83) 83 (23/77) sex-transcendent identity, sexual orientation, fixed-term (men/women) / permanent (men/women) in 16 (4/96)/ 22 (5/95)/ 23 (3/97) / 77 Sweden 84 (5/95) 78 (6/94) (6/94) Share of full-time/part-time employees of personnel, % 38/62 40/60 39/61 46 (24/76)/ 52 (24/76)/ 2017 2016 2015 in Finland (men/women) 54 (10/90) 48 (10/90) 47/53 Average age of personnel 37 37 36 35 (15/85)/ 34 (17/83)/ abroad (men/women) 65 (2/98) 66 (2/98) 32/68 in Finland 39 40 38 Turnover of permanent employees, on average, % 19 21 17 abroad 38 37 37 in Finland 17 22 11 Sickness absences, % 4.1 4.7 4.5 in Sweden 6 6 5 in Finland 3.8 4.3 4.4 New permanent employee hires, % 18 14 11 in Sweden 4.6 5.1 4.9 in Finland 10 5 3 Reported workplace accidents at workplace + on the way to work in Finland, number 85+52 148+86 127+71 in Sweden 5 4 4 Reported workplace accidents at workplace in Sweden, number 142 132 113 Staff costs, EUR million 236.2 270.4 321.5 Staff training expenses in Finland (excluding direct wage costs), Staff costs, share of revenue % 22.4 23.0 22.4 EUR million 0.2 0.3 0.4 2016–2017 Does not include personnel in Delicatessen business in Finland, which is reported as discontinued operation. Includes personnel in Delicatessen business in Finland for all years. 2015–2017 Does not include Department store business in Russia, which is reported as discontinued operation. 2015–2017 Does not include Department store business in Russia, which is reported as discontinued operation. Restatements of information: Reported workplace accidents in Sweden in 2016. 22 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN We offer our customers a wide selection of safe, durable, quality products with sustainable choices. We promote sustainable brands and environmentally friendly products. We focus on the responsibility, transparency and traceability of our supply chains. We increase the use of sustainable materials in our own brand garments. 23 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 S tockmann’s department stores and Lindex’s fashion stores offer an TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2017 STATUS extensive range of products, consisting of hundreds of thousands of product titles. These PRODUCTS We offer a wide There was one public recall made of an own brand product, one pair of In process selection of safe Lindex’s socks, which did not comply with the company’s own chemical products sold in our stores must fulfil the and durable quality requirements. Our target is to have zero product recalls in own brand products quality, environmental and product safety HIGH-QUALITY products and own import products. requirements set for them at any given time. SELECTION WITH We promote We made the sustainable choices in our selection known to customers by On target Sustainable products as part SUSTAINABLE sustainable brands promoting them on the sales floor and in our communications channels. of department store selection CHOICES and environmentally Our target is to make the sustainable brands and environmentally friendly Our broad product selection offers consumers AND A friendly products products in our selection more well-known among our customers. The opportunities to make responsible purchase TRANSPARENT Sustainable DESIGN label was added to Stockmann’s own brand clothing to SUPPLY CHAIN provide information about the sustainable materials used in the product. At choices. In the areas of fashion, cosmetics Lindex such products are labelled with the Sustainable Choice label. and home products, the choice includes We increase the use of 10% of Stockmann’s own brand clothes were made of organic cotton or On target products made from organic and recycled sustainable materials lyocell, after piloting with the first garments made with sustainable materials materials and products with an eco-label, in our own brand only a year before. A significant increase can already be foreseen for the year such as the Swan Label, energy label or the garments 2018. Already 55% (51) of Lindex’s garments are made of sustainable materials Ökotex 100 label. Stockmann encourages its and 95% (91 of cotton is sustainable. sales personnel to find out about the We add transparency We published a comprehensive supplier and factory list for fashion own On target choice of eco-labelled prodin our own brands’ brands, as targeted. The home area is to be included for 2018. ucts in their areas of value chain responsibility and to offer them to the We co-operate to 100% of fashion own brand suppliers have signed the Stockmann Supplier In process improve working Code of Conduct, the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct or similar. In addition, our customers interconditions in our own target is to have all the own brand producers in risk countries to undergo an ested in such brands’ supplier amfori BSCI audit by the end of 2018. We continued our efforts towards our products. InforOur target is to make network goals. mation for sustainable choices personnel more well-known concerning the various labelling among our customers schemes regarding environmental 24 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 aspects, sustainability and origin is available use of products posing a serious risk to the significant increase can already be foreseen on the Stockmann intranet. The knowledge of health and safety of consumers. In Finland, for the year 2018. These garments were for sales personnel on eco-labels is surveyed Finnish Customs and the Finnish Safety and women, children and men. annually in connection with ISO 14001 audits. Chemicals Agency (Tukes) also promote and Our target is to make the sustainable brands supervise product safety. and environmentally friendly products in our Possible product recalls are handled in • Sustainability is part of Lindex’s long-term selection more well-known among our cusaccordance with Stockmann’s internal product strategy, with ambitious sustainability goals tomers. recall instructions, which specify responsibiliset for 2020 for fibres, processes and ties and the action required. One public recall production. By 2020, 80% of Lindex’s CUSTOMER HEALTH AND was made of an own brand product, one pair garments will be made from more sustainof Lindex’s 3-pair pack of socks, which did not able materials, with more sustainable SAFETY & PRODUCT comply with the company’s own chemical processes and more sustainable production COMPLIANCE requirements. Our target is to have zero facilities. product recalls in own brand products and • Already 55% (51) of Lindex garments were The Stockmann Group is responsible for the own import products. made of sustainable materials and 95% (91) safety of the products it sells, ensuring that of cotton is sustainably produced. In total, 33 they do not pose a risk to customers’ health or MATERIALS million garments from sustainable materials property. The company’s buying organisation were produced. 100% of Lindex’s assortment makes sure that products comply with the Responsibility is integral to the processes Stockmann fulfils the for newborn babies was made of sustainvalid requirements set in legislation, such as involved in clothing design and procurement requirements of REACH able materials. chemical and product safety legislation. of materials and products, and these proand actively works to • In March 2017, Lindex launched an upcycled Products are tested by their manufacturers cesses are part of the operations of the Stocklimit the use of harmful Re:Design collection that was redesigned and importers, and Stockmann tests its own mann Group. We are set to systematically chemicals in all of its from Better Denim garments from previous brand products and own imports, on the basis increase the amount of environmentally less products. seasons and made locally in Borås, Sweden. of regular sampling and risk analysis. Testing harmful, or sustainable, raw materials in the • 100% of Lindex’s denim products are ‘Better ensures that the products fulfil all quality and Group’s own brand fashion products, such as Denim’, made from sustainable materials safety requirements set by legislation or the organic cotton, lyocell and recycled fibres. We and with processes that use less water, stricter requirements set by Stockmann. In addition, Stockmann follows product notifications issued by the European Union in order to inform customers as quickly as define sustainable cotton as the use of organic cotton, Better cotton (BCI-cotton) or recycled cotton. 55 % of Lindex garments and energy and chemicals. In autumn 2017, Lindex once again launched new ‘Even Better Denim’ styles that use a new, more sustainablewashing process. This means possible about products that pose a risk. 10% of Stockmann’s own that the washing process of a pair of jeans RAPEX, the EU rapid alert system, facilitates • After piloting with the first garments made brand garments were only uses 2 litres of water, while the conventhe exchange of information between Memwith sustainable materials in 2016, 10% of made with sustainable tional process requires 50-70 litres. The ber States and the Commission on measures Stockmann’s own brands clothes were materials. styles are dyed in the cleanest indigo dye on taken to prevent or restrict the marketing or made of organic cotton or lyocell in 2017. A the market and more sustainable trims and 25 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 details, such as buttons, zips and pocket we monitor customer experience closely and by changing the smallest bag size from a linings, are used. The styles are made from aim to offer new solutions proactively. We make plastic to a paper bag. materials such as post-consumer recycled good use of the Finnish ‘Optikassi 2009’ • The cardboard boxes used for packaging cotton and recycled polyester. research on environmental impacts throughout the items purchased in the stockmann.com the life cycle of packaging materials. The online store are partially made of recycled USE OF CHEMICALS Stockmann Group reports on packaging fibres. When producing garments, chemicals are materials used, in accordance with the EU used in processes such as colouring, printing Packaging Directive. and washing. The Stockmann Group fulfils the • Lindex carrier bags are made with 60% requirements of REACH and actively works to post-consumer recycled plastic, 20% limit the use of harmful chemicals in all of its • Stockmann has made a commitment to post-industry recycled plastic and 20% products. As part of the Group’s efforts to reduce the consumption of plastic bags in renewable oyster shell chalk. reduce the use of hazardous chemicals, the the Society’s Commitment to Sustainable • Lindex started charging for carrier bags use of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) has Development. Accordingly, thin plastic starting in Sweden in June 2017, which been banned since 2014. The ban affects all bags are no longer available for our cusdecreased the use of bags considerably, outerwear at Lindex and children’s outerwear tomers on a self-service basis and we have and only around 30% of customers choose in Stockmann’s own brand products, and increased our in-store communications to buy a bag. these items are now treated with BionicWe renewed our about sustainable choices in shopping • The One Bag Habit initiative, a joint camfinish®ECO instead. Lindex participates in a bags. paign launched by Lindex and two other shopping bag cosmetic network, Dialogue Group, together • In Septembers 2017, we started charging Swedish fashion brands, to reduce the selection to be more with the Swedish Chemical Agency and customers for carrier bags and campaigned number of carrier bags consumed, several cosmetic brands. Lindex has adopted a sustainable and together with the WWF to lower their expanded to Finland, the Baltics and the voluntary ban on insoluble microbeads in campaigned together consumption. On monthly level, the use of UK in the beginning of 2018. The surplus rinse-off products. A voluntary ban on certain with WWF to reduce plastic bags decreased by hundreds of from the bags are donated to causes that fragrances and preservatives in cosmetic the consumption thousands of pieces, and during the Crazy drive sustainable development. products intended for children has also been of plastic bags Days campaign, it was halved. adopted. • Stockmann’s plastic carrier bags are 80% PROCUREMENT READ MORE recycled plastic. The paper bags are made PACKAGING MATERIALS www.stockmanngroup.com of FSC-certified paper, which is made with PRACTICES AND CARRIER BAGS trees from sustainably managed forests. Responsible, transparent and traceable supply Stockmann aims to bring to the market high• We recommend a re-usable bag as the chains form one of Stockmann’s CSR focus quality packaging, and to minimize the environbest option. Our selection of re-usable areas and are important for our stakeholders. mental burden of packaging materials and offer bags has been expanded, in connection Our reporting on the supply chain is based on customers material-efficient solutions. We with the renewal of our shopping bag risk assessment, and the ability to exert an actively monitor developments in the packagselection, to be more sustainable, including influence. As around 80% of the Group’s ing industry and legislative developments, and 26 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 The cornerstones of revenue comes from fashion, we focus espesupplier know-how and ability to deliver, In addition to audits and training, every cially on responsibility in the fashion supply quality and price, CSR with the focus on aspect of suppliers’ operations is rated our responsible chain and the development of Stockmann working conditions and environmental issues, according to a ‘supplier scorecard’, which purchasing Group’s own brands’ supply chain, which we and the potential for long-term relationships. forms the basis for development. Suppliers practices have the best possibility to exert an influence All factories need to fulfil the Stockmann are evaluated with the score card twice a year, on. Group’s starting requirements and commit to with the sustainability criteria and business Our stakeholders, including customers the common Code of Conduct and continuperformance being included as parameters. and governmental and non-governmental ous improvement. We aim for long relationBased on the evaluation, we grade our suppli• We have a common Code of organisations, are showing increasing interest ships with suppliers. ers, and the score plays a significant role in our Conduct in place in all our in our work in the supply chain. The questions supplier management. production countries to ensure raised include our buying practices, the counClose co-operation with suppliers the fulfilment of human and tries of manufacture, our Supplier Code of The Stockmann Group has six local purchasInstructions for suppliers labour rights Conduct, human rights, including living wages, ing offices in China (Shanghai and Hong The Stockmann Group has been a member of • We aim for long-term relationfreedom of association and traceability. Kong), Bangladesh, India, Turkey and Pakiamfori BSCI (formerly known as Business ships with suppliers and consoAll suppliers are expected to follow the stan. The offices play a key role in developing Social Compliance Initiative, BSCI) since lidate production whenever Stockmann Code of Conduct or demonstrate working conditions and identifying risks. In 2005. amfori BSCI is a business-driven initiapossible a similar commitment. The responsibility total 135 persons are employed by the offices tive for companies committed to improving issues are discussed during the purchasing and they are tasked with supervising purchasworking conditions in factories worldwide. The • We are in close contact with the negotiations and supplier agreements. ing and production. They review the proceamfori BSCI Code of Conduct sets out 11 core most important suppliers In the Stockmann department stores, dures of each factory that they use before any labour rights which the participating compathrough our local purchase the major part of merchandise is made up of orders are placed, and after which systematic nies and their business partners undertake to offices international brand products, but we also carry responsibility work continues. Around 90% of incorporate in their supply chain in a step-by• Compliance with our Code of a wide selection of own brand products in Lindex products and half of Stockmann’s own step development approach. Conduct is monitored through women’s, men’s and children’s wear designed brand products are bought via the Stockmann The requirements set out in the Code own audits and those made by by our own designers, and which cannot be Group’s purchasing offices. are freedom of association and collective a third party purchased anywhere else. In Lindex this Our local CSR specialists provide trainbargaining, fair remuneration, decent working applies to the majority of the products. ing and support to suppliers and factory hours, occupational health and safety, special • We aim for transparency: we owners, to help them make improvements in protection for young workers, protection of the share information about our BUYING PRACTICES FOR line with our Code of Conduct and environenvironment and ethical business behaviour. buying practices and countries OWN BRAND PRODUCTS mental requirements, and they also perform It also prohibits discrimination, child labour, of manufacture and we publish Stockmann does not own any factories or announced and unannounced audits. Our bonded labour and precarious employment. our suppliers and factories production facilities. Instead, our own brand local production and quality controllers also At Stockmann Group we actively communiproducts are made by contractors. When visit the production units on regular basis to cate about the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct choosing a supplier, we pay attention to a ensure that conditions meet our requirements, to our suppliers and producers, and we number of factors. The most important criteria and they report on any suspected violations of co-operate with them to ensure a better are: the fit with the Stockmann Group’s needs, the Code of Conduct. 27 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 chance of improving working conditions in our environment and ethical business behaviour. AMFORI-BSCI AUDITS boiler in the factory exploded during maintesupply chains. It also prohibits discrimination, child labour, 2016-2017 nance work. There was no production going Factories where Stockmann and Lindex bonded labour and precarious employment. on at the time of the accident, due to the own brand products are produced that are in At Stockmann Group we actively communiholiday season. 13 people were killed in the 100 countries classified as high-risk by the amfori cate about the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct accident and many people were injured. The 80 BSCI, are regularly audited by our own audits, to our suppliers and producers, and we factory had been audited with an amfori BSCI 60 conducted by our own local personnel, and by co-operate with them to ensure a better audit made in May 2016 with the rating ‘good’ amfori BSCI audits conducted by a third party. chance of improving working conditions in our 40 (B), and no significant deviations were found The SA8000 (Social Accountability 8000) supply chains. 20 in the audit. The plant had also been certificate is considered a best practice by the Factories where Stockmann and Lindex 0 inspected with Accord inspections, but boilers amfori BSCI initiative and as an alternative to own brand products are produced that are in 2017 2016 were not included within the scope of the the amfori BSCI audit. countries classified as high-risk by the amfori audit. Due to the accident, additional boiler A: OUTSTANDING 7% / 5% To improve audit quality, starting from BSCI, are regularly audited by our own audits, inspections and associated safety training in B: GOOD 11% / 11% the beginning of 2017, amfori BSCI audits have conducted by our own local personnel, and by C: ACCEPTABLE  67% / 60% the supply chain began in December 2017. been semi-announced by default, providing amfori BSCI audits conducted by a third party. D: INSUFFICIENT 16%/24% After the accident, we worked together with producers a four-week time frame during The SA8000 (Social Accountability 8000) E: UNACCEPTABLE 0% / 0% the factory and sought to support the factory which the audit will take place, instead of the certificate is considered a best practice by the 2017 / 2016 and its employees. We are still in communicaexact date of the audit. amfori BSCI initiative and as an alternative to tion with the factory and will provide support the amfori BSCI audit. result ‘unacceptable’ or were caught with where it is needed. Multifabs has compenAmfori BSCI co-operation To improve audit quality, starting from zero-tolerance issues. The main findings in the sated the families of the deceased workers in The Stockmann Group has been a member of the beginning of 2017, amfori BSCI audits have accordance with Bangladesh law together with Number of Audits (Full audit / Re-audit ) amfori BSCI (formerly known as Business been semi-announced by default, providing their own additional compensation. 2017 2016 2015 Social Compliance Initiative, BSCI) since producers a four-week time frame during 123 142 2005. amfori BSCI is a business-driven initiawhich the audit will take place, instead of the amfori BSCI 88 (80/28) (114/28) Improving fire and building safety tive for companies committed to improving exact date of the audit. 92 116 in Bangladesh working conditions in factories worldwide. The internal 119 (84/8) (90/26) Stockmann is committed to improving factory SA 8000 certificate 13 4 11 amfori BSCI Code of Conduct sets out 11 core Audits and findings safety in Bangladesh, which is one of our most labour rights which the participating compaAfter each audit, be it an amfori BSCI audit, important production countries. In 2013, we nies and their business partners undertake to own audit or Accord inspection, an audit report audits were non-compliance with the requirejoined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety incorporate in their supply chain in a step-bywith a corrective action plan is put together. ments on working hours or allowing one day in Bangladesh, due to the risk posed by step development approach. Each task on the corrective action plan is given off every seven days, and issues with health substandard factory buildings in the country. The requirements set out in the Code a deadline and progress is monitored. and safety, the management system and fair According to the agreement Stockmann is are freedom of association and collective The amfori BSCI audits are conducted remuneration. committed to having all of the factories probargaining, fair remuneration, decent working by internationally accredited independent On 3 July 2017, a serious accident ducing garments for the Group audited on the hours, occupational health and safety, special auditors. None of the factories producing for occurred at the Multifabs Ltd factory, one of basis of three different inspections, concernprotection for young workers, protection of the the Stockmann Group received the audit Stockmann’s Bangladeshi suppliers, when a ing fire safety, electricity and structural issues. 28 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 The first contract period comes to an end in ing offices. The suppliers and producers Syrian refugees in the supply chains the spring of 2018, and Stockmann has are in part the same as Lindex’s. WE WOMEN in Turkey committed to the transition Accord, with the In Turkey, refugees from Syria have been aim of finishing the detected improvements BY LINDEX PROJECT identified to be at risk of being abused due to needed in the factories within the original • In 2017, Lindex had around 142 (153) suppliSUPPORTS their vulnerable status. A standard operating Accord and to transfer the responsibility to the ers using 242 (258) factories. GENDER EQUALITY procedure is in place for Stockmann Group’s local government as soon as possible. The • Lindex has 40 suppliers that stand for 80% suppliers to follow if they identify Syrian situation will be monitored every 6 months of the production, considered Lindex’s key The project aims to strengthen gender refugees working in the supply chain. The until the local government is ready to take suppliers. Lindex has systematically consoliequality, create more equal and participasuppliers have been trained on the procedure, charge or until 2021. dated its supply chain to be able to focus on tory workplaces, and improve women’s for example regarding applying for work position in Lindex’s global goods supply By the end of 2017, 82% of all the issues fewer suppliers and improving co-operapermits and for paying the gross minimum chains. Suppliers are trained and supin all the factories within the Accord had been tion, working conditions and environmental ported in integrating gender equality to wage, until a work permit is obtained, in order remediated, and 89% of those found in work in the most important factories. the management systems of the factories. to compensate for the lack of social security factories producing for the Stockmann Group. • In addition to disclosing the suppliers and The three-year project will be implepayments. The work has been done in cofactories where the Lindex garments are mented jointly with GIZ, BSR and the local operation with ASAM, the Association for 2017 2016 being sewed, Lindex has also published it NGOs. WE Women by Lindex was started Solidarity with Asylum Seekers and Migrants. Accord inspections 221 144 in Bangladesh with 33 Lindex suppliers (fire & electricity/ structural) (185/36) (109/35) processing units making prints, embroidery and 10 others. The aim is to scale up the Stockmann Group’s and washes in Turkey and Bangladesh. The project in the future. Community projects in the remediation progress rate 89 71 aim is to expand to other production supply chain Accord remediation progress rate 82 countries as well. Our clothing orders create employment opportunities, particularly for women, in STOCKMANN’S OWN BRAND GARMENT Production countries PRODUCTION COUNTRIES 2017 developing countries. Local wellbeing and and factory lists environmental protection is also promoted by China 58% Our goal is to provide transparent communivarious projects to support the status and India 10% cations on issues that interest our stakeholdBangladesh 10% wellbeing of women, the education of chilers, and therefore we disclose our fashion EU countries 9% dren, and environmental protection in the suppliers and the factories producing own Other risk countries 8% manufacturing countries. We are involved in brands fashion products on the division’s Turkey 3% the School of Hope, the HERproject (Health websites. Enables Return) and most recently the WE LINDEX PRODUCTION COUNTRIES 2017 Women by Lindex project. We are also Bangladesh 44% involved in several projects to reduce water • In 2017 Stockmann’s own brand garments China 25% consumption and other environmental Turkey 7% were bought from around 86 (150) suppliimpacts. Read more about Supplier assessItaly 6% ers and made in around 120 (215) factories. ment for environmental practices. Myanmar 5% Around half of the garments were purVietnam 3% chased directly and half through purchasREAD MORE Other countries 6% www.lindex.com 29 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Management systems to engage in dialogue with the factory manfactory workers. For example, an increase in FOR LABOUR PRACTICES Problems with the management system may agement. These committees are in no way the buying price is not directly linked to the lead to poor control over procedures at the equivalent to a functioning trade union, and wages paid to the workers, and cannot be AND HUMAN RIGHTS factory or with subcontractors. There may be a are not seen as a replacement. Having the expected to benefit the workers without lack of people responsible for the manageopportunity to join a trade union and engage separate proof of this. We urge the supplier to A significant percentage of the own brand ment system or a lack of internal policies in in collective bargaining is the primary goal, but provide fair compensation and improve fashion products, 93%, are manufactured in the factory. We put emphasis on giving advice establishing trade unions remains the workers’ welfare through benefits such as child care, areas classified as risk countries by the amfori and assisting factories to improve their manown responsibility. Stockmann is responsible free lunches, transport, and the opportunity BSCI. We are aware that there is a risk of agement systems and on training factory for putting pressure on the supplier to ensure for education on health and finances – which violation of the Code of Conduct and we are managers to establish internal controls over that this right is not violated. Factory employwe implement through the HERproject actively working to ensure compliance. We are their supplier chain. ees are informed of their rights through the (Health Enables Return). looking into the possibility of better incorpoamfori BSCI policies. We encourage factory We work with the issue through amfori BSCI rating human rights and children’s rights into Documentation managers to take part in amfori BSCI training but also by benchmarking other initiatives. To our assessments. In February 2018, the StockShortcomings concerning copies of employrelated to the freedom of association and improve wage practices and pay systems to mann Board of Directors approved the ees’ ID cards, or wage lists, or other documencollective bargaining. work towards fair wages, Lindex piloted the Group’s Human rights policy. tation are a common problem. Lack of proper Fair Wage Methodology together with SolidariIn the case of a human rights violation, documentation hampers the verification of Wages and compensation dad and Fair Wage Network. The one-year we work together with the supplier to remedicompliance with the code, such as paying the In compliance with the Code of Conduct and pilot project in China was completed during ate the victim. No new orders are placed until correct wages, checking worker age and local law, suppliers must pay the country’s 2017 and resulted in improved working condithe violation has been corrected and the respecting overtime limits. If the documentastatutory minimum wage to their employees tions and wage practices. The project also victim has been compensated. tion is insufficient, the supplier is deemed as as a minimum requirement. Paying incorrect focused on our own purchasing practices and not having complied with the requirements. wages is a common problem, however, and on the impact they have on the working TEXTILE INDUSTRY We work to alert suppliers to the importance the minimum wage is seldom at a sufficient conditions of factory workers, such as overCHALLENGES AND RISKS of good documentation through seminars and level to cover basic needs and also provide time and pay. Areas of development were Challenges that concern the whole textile workshops, and by providing training for some discretionary income. We believe that identified, such as connecting wages to industry include, for example, the traceability responsible persons at the factories. raising the national minimum wage is the key performance and skills in a clearer way. In the and transparency of the supply chain, the to raising wage levels, as it also raises wages pilot, it was also identified that Lindex can realization of human and labour rights Trade union affiliation on higher pay grades. In Bangladesh, we have have a positive impact, by improving its throughout the chain, and the environmental The right to join a trade union and to engage co-operated with other companies in appeals production planning and sample handling and impacts of production and raw materials. in collective bargaining is a basic right that we to the Bangladeshi government to raise the increasing transparency during selection Our risk analysis shows five particular areas of uphold. Unfortunately, in many of our producminimum wage. planning. As a next step, we will explore risk for our Code of Conduct. tion countries the trade unions are weak and Stockmann does not own any factories or collaboration with other organisations in order the underlying causes are complex and often production facilities of its own, and is typically to find a collective scalable approach to the multifaceted. In many of the factories that we a minor buyer in the eyes of its suppliers and wage issue. use, there are functioning workers’ committheir factories. As a consequence, we cannot, tees that give the employees the opportunity only by our own efforts, raise the salaries of 30 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 Working hours Lindex co-operates with its denim proven to be an effective way to increase Overtime work that exceeds the limits in the suppliers to develop the production processes environmental awareness and improve proCode of Conduct is a widespread problem in so that they have less impact on the environcesses. We aim for as many suppliers as most of our production countries. Overtime ment. Lindex’s Better Denim journey started in possible to participate in these projects and to work is difficult to remedy as there are several 2014, and today, 100% of Lindex’s denim transition to more resource-efficient and reasons for it. Firstly, the employees in the products are ‘Better Denim’ products. In total, cleaner production. factories may say that they want to work the process uses up to 85% less water, 70% The water-related cooperation projects overtime in order to earn more money. In less energy and 45% less chemicals, with the include the Partnership for Cleaner Textiles in cases where the employees work far away chemicals used being better than those in Bangladesh (PaCT), and the Sweden Textile from home, they want to be able to work a lot conventional methods. The styles are dyed in Water Initiative (STWI). Lindex is also a over an intensive period and then return the cleanest indigo dye on the market and longterm partner to WaterAid and supports home. Secondly, it may be lucrative for the more sustainable trims and details, such as their work in improving access to safe water, supplier to organise overtime in order to buttons, zips and pocket linings, are used. improved hygiene and sanitation in the increase production. Stockmann’s, like other All of the cotton in our denim comes world’s poorest communities. More informafashion companies’, lead times represent a from more sustainable sources; Better Cotton, tion can be found on Lindex website. risk of overtime. In order to minimize the risk, organic or recycled cotton. In addition, recya production capacity assessment is concled polyester is used. ducted prior to placing orders. In the autumn of 2017, Lindex once again launched a new Even Better Denim Supplier assessment for collection that uses a new, more sustainable environmental practices washing process. This means that the washing Textile production is water-intensive. Water process of a pair of jeans only uses 2 litres of impacts our supply chain mostly through the water, while the conventional process requires irrigation of cotton fields and through the wet 50-70 litres. The jersey production process is processes of textile production, such as dyeing also being developed to make it more enviBetter Denim by Lindex: and washing. Water consumption and water ronmentally friendly. Avitera dye, which 85% less water treatment should therefore be as efficient as reduces water consumption by 30%, is used 70% less energy possible. for dyeing jersey fabrics for children’s basic Our suppliers are expected to follow the collections. 45% less chemicals applicable environmental legislation. In addiThrough Lindex, we have been involved tion, an environmental code, in use in our for years in sustainability projects in the purchasing offices, sets requirements for Group’s important production countries, such water treatment, chemicals handling, waste as Bangladesh and India, where there are treatment, emissions and continuous challenges with water scarcity and clean water. READ MORE improvement. During the last years, these projects have been www.lindex.com 31 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 ENVIRONMENT Our objective is to reduce the environmental impact of our business operations and to act in accordance with sustainable development. We acknowledge the environmental impacts of our operations and strive to reduce adverse effects by cutting emissions, increasing the efficiency of energy and water consumption, and carrying out waste sorting and recycling. To ensure continuous improvement, we monitor our compliance with Stockmann’s environmental system and the fulfilment of the environmental goals and objectives set. 32 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 S tockmann complies with valid TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) environmental legislation and C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2017 STATUS requires the same from its partners. Environmental work at ENVIRONMENT We continue to improve We complemented the energy monitoring of our properties by initiating In process Stockmann is based on the CSR our energy efficiency cooperation with ISS Energy Management solutions. We increased the use of REDUCED LED-lighting in our department stores and we updated some of the escalators strategy and on the environmental policy. The and lifts in the Helsinki department store to make them more energy efficient. management of environmental responsibility IMPACT ON THE Our target is to improve the energy efficiency of our properties by 4% by 2020. is part of the divisions’ day-to-day operations ENVIRONMENT We reduce the We continued to improve the efficiency of our domestic transportation of In process and it is coordinated by the Communications environmental impact goods through regular follow-ups and by route optimisation. The distribution and CSR function. The divisions indepenof our logistics centre has reduced the amount of domestic transportation and the distances, dently set specific environmental targets, especially in the Helsinki region. We continue our systematic work to achieve define indicators for monitoring the achievethe target of reducing domestic transport emissions by 10% by 2018. ment of these targets and establish We minimize waste and 70.4% of the waste generated in Stockmann department stores in Finland was On target appropriate management practices. find possibilities for directed to recycling, just exceeding the target level of 70%. We strengthened re-use and recycling our charity collaboration by regularly donating products, material samples and food from all department stores and service functions. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT An ISO 14001 certified environmental manastores mainly operate in leased premises in environmental targets, environmental issues gement system is in use for operations in shopping centres, which mean that in addition and targets are regularly discussed during the Finland. The operating methods and guidelito the stores’ energy-efficient concept, envicooperation. For example, the cleaning serviOver nes of Stockmann’s environmental management system have been adopted in the distribution centre and the department stores in the Baltic countries with the goal of seeking ronmental issues are taken into account to the extent possible within the property in question. Stockmann’s purchasing offices operate near production sites and the offices have ces have a significant role in achieving Stockmann’s ambitious recycling targets. RAISING INTERNAL AWARENESS 70% of the waste certification in the coming years. made efforts to assess and minimise the ON ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES generated in the An ISO 14001 certified environmental harmful environmental impacts of their suppEvery employee’s input is required for the department stores management system is in use for operations liers’ factories. achievement of our environmental goals and in Finland in Finland. The operating methods and guideStockmann considers environmental objectives. The personnel’s environmental was directed to lines of Stockmann’s environmental manageaspects when planning and managing operaawareness is maintained and enhanced recycling. ment system have been adopted in the tions and when procuring products and through training and regular internal commudistribution centre and the department stores services for the Group’s own use. Stockmann nication, e.g. through the intranet and through in the Baltic countries with the goal of seeking requires its service providers to commit to information screens and bulletin boards certification in the coming years. Stockmann’s operating principles during the placed in the personnel facilities. Lindex does not have a certified environcooperation. As the service providers have an Stockmann’s environmental specialist mental management system in use. Lindex important role in achieving Stockmann’s regularly visits the department stores and 33 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 service functions, and provides guidance to the ventilation, heating and cooling systems in the centralised the previous four warehouses in The Stockmann distribution centre has personnel and service providers with regard to stores, warehouses and offices, as well as by Finland to a single distribution centre. During been awarded the LEED Gold environmental environmental targets, and trains new tenants other equipment and machinery in these the reporting year, Stockmann continued to certificate. LEED (Leadership in Energy and in recycling practices and guidelines. facilities, including lifts, escalators, refrigeracentralise warehouse operations and closed Environmental Design) is an internationally During the reporting year several envition and IT equipment. the central warehouse in Latvia, which had recognised rating system to promote sustainronmental training sessions were organised, in Stockmann has focused on energy served the Baltic department stores. The able construction and design standards. The cooperation with Stockmann’s waste manageefficiency for almost fifteen years. In 2013, closure was carried out step by step during the LEED certificate has four levels: Certified, ment service provider, in the department Stockmann’s department store operations in reporting and by the end of 2017 Stockmann’s Silver, Gold and Platinum. During the planning stores in Helsinki, Turku and Tampere, and in Finland committed to the Finnish retail seclong-term goal of centralising all warehouse and construction of the building, sustainable the distribution centre. During the sessions, tor’s energy efficiency agreement, with the operations to the Tuusula distribution centre development and other environmental perthe focus was on waste management and aim of achieving a 9% reduction in energy had been realised. From the beginning of spectives, such as energy efficiency and sorting. The training sessions received good consumption during 2006-2016. This target 2018 the distribution centre in Tuusula has geothermal energy, were taken into account. feedback and the subject prompted positive was achieved during the given time period. served the online store in Finland and the LED lighting is in use and the geothermal discussion among the personnel. As part of Stockmann’s Real Estate division and the real Stockmann department stores in all operation system produces almost all the heating and the opening of Tapiola’s new department estate coordinators monitor the energy concountries. The distribution centre will reduce cooling energy needed in the building. District store, several environmental training sessions sumption of the department stores and internal transportation of goods and the heating generates the warm water needed in were organised for the department store’s service functions as part of their day-to-day maintenance of one distribution centre will the building, and in 2017 district heating was personnel. In addition, topical environmental operations. In 2017, Stockmann continued also increase the energy efficiency of warealso partly used during one month to heat the matters were also discussed in morning implementing the energy efficiency prohouse operations. building. The possibility for the use of solar briefings for department store personnel. gramme, by optimising the running hours of building systems and by optimising ventilation ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION 2015-2017 ENERGY and lighting control in all premises in order to reduce electricity consumption. 2017 2016 2015 The Group’s energy consumption mainly During the reporting year, Stockmann DIRECT CONSUMPTION consists of electricity, heating and district further complemented the energy monitoring Heating fuel (MWh) 432 430 434 heating. Energy is consumed by the lighting, of its properties by initiating cooperation with Natural gas (MWh) 17 764 19 443 16 677 INDIRECT CONSUMPTION ISS Energy Management solutions. The Electricity (MWh) 110 651 124 460 124 870 cooperation enables more efficient monitorDistrict heating and cooling (MWh) 73 321 80 550 80 218 ing of energy consumption and it makes it Water (m3) 210 607 218 110 234 807 possible to quickly address any divergences in We put effort consumption. As part of the energy efficiency The figures for heating and cooling for 2016 and 2015 have been restated due to calculation errors. The heating fuel and natural gas consumption is based on metered data for Stockmann and estimations for Lindex. The purchased electricity on energy work, Stockmann has conducted energy consumption covers all the Group’s functions. The purchased heating and cooling energy consumption covers all the Group’s efficiency reviews, which are also required in the energy functions, excluding the Group’s purchasing offices in Asia. The heating and cooling data for Stockmann is based on invoicing and data from service providers. Due to significant amount of estimations and extrapolation in heat consumption for Lindex, legislation that came into force in 2015. the data quality is considered fair. The reporting on water covers all the Stockmann’s functions and Lindex’s distribution centre Regarding logistics, Stockmann opened in Sweden. The reporting on energy and water excludes discontinued operations (central kitchen in Finland) and franchising a distribution centre in Tuusula in 2016 and operations. 34 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 energy as an energy source for the distribution prioritises energy from renewable sources and GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2015-2017 centre has also been investigated. Lindex’s long-term goal is to become energy tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e Change During the reporting year, as part of the neutral. 2017 2016 2015 2016-2017, % Comments department renovations on the 3rd and 4th DIRECT EMISSIONS 170 170 170 0% (SCOPE 1) floor in the Helsinki department store, the EMISSIONS Stationary 170 170 170 0% lighting was changed to LED-based lighting. combustion According to Stockmann’s lighting concept Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions INDIRECT 47 900 49 900 50 600 -4% Decrease in total scope 2 emissions EMISSIONS FROM was mainly caused by changes in the use of LED technology will be incorporated serves as a management tool in the StockPURCHASED Stockmann's reporting scope. more widely in conjunction with renovation mann Group, providing a basis for defining the ENERGY (SCOPE 2) and enlargement projects. The new Stockareas where emissions should be reduced and Purchased electricity 33 900 35 600 36 200 -5% Emissions of the renewable electricity (market-based) purchased by Lindex from LOS mann department store in Tapiola was for setting reduction targets. We are constantly Energy are zero. The reporting scope of Stockmann's emissions opened in March 2017. Adjustable LED lighting developing the way we calculate our carbon decreased. is utilised in the lighting of the department footprint. Heating and cooling 14 000 14 300 14 400 -2% Significant amount of estimation for store, and the cooling of the department store The calculation of Stockmann’s carbon Lindex, the quality of data is fair. Stockmann's heating consumption is accomplished with energy efficient district footprint in 2017 covers the functions of the decreased during 2017, while heating consumption at Lindex increased. cooling. During the reporting year, the energy Stockmann Retail, Real Estate, Lindex and OTHER INDIRECT 13 800 12 600 14 200 10% Increase in total scope 2 emissions is consumption of the department store was Group shared functions in all the countries of EMISSIONS caused by increased logistic closely monitored, for example by going operation, excluding the Central kitchen and (SCOPE 3) emissions. through and optimising the department store franchise operations. At Stockmann, the Internal logistics 2 800 2 800 3 400 0% External logistics 7 900 6 600 7 600 20% Increase in Lindex's logistics lighting control. In addition, during the reportfigures also cover the emissions of our tenants emissions, while Stockmann's ing year, some of the escalators and lifts in the in the department stores, who operate 49% of emissions in logistics decreased. Helsinki department store were updated to the gross leasable area of the properties Business travel 1 100 1 200 1 200 -8% Decrease in air travel miles more energy efficient ones. managed by Stockmann Real Estate. Waste 2 000 2 000 2 000 0% TOTAL 61 870 62 670 64 970 -1.30% Lindex’s stores have also focused on The Stockmann Group’s emissions are AVOIDED 270 1 100 1 700 Carbon emissions neutralized by minimising energy consumption, and all presented in the table ‘Greenhouse gas EMISSIONS certified climate projects by logistics stores follow an efficient energy consumption emissions 2015-2017’. This is the eighth time operator. checklist as a routine practice. An in-depth that Stockmann is reporting its greenhouse (NET EMISSIONS) 61 600 61 570 63 280 study about electricity consumption was made gas emissions, covering the whole Group. The in a representative sample of stores. Accordcomparison figures are presented for 2015 The reporting excludes discontinued operations (Central kitchen in Finland) and franchising operations. Scope 2 purchased electricity emissions are market-based reported. Emissions from purchased electricity in 2016 are ing to this, the areas of lighting, cooling and and 2016, and the changes in the scope of the restated due to calculation errors. The emissions from external logistics 2015 and 2016 are restated regarding one partner. ventilation and escalators account for approxicalculation are explained in the comments The figures presented in the table are rounded to the nearest hundred. mately 90% of the energy consumption, and column. hence energy reduction measures will focus Stockmann has updated its greenhouse on these, and especially regarding the lighting gas emissions calculation aligned to the GHG result, the use of LED lights will be increased. Protocol. According to the GHG Protocol, To reduce carbon dioxide emissions, Lindex companies are required to report the emis35 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 sions arising from indirect electricity consumpyears. Due to changes in the scope of operaOver utilised in meetings. Attention is paid to tion as market-based figures as well as location-based figures. The figures reported in the table are reported according to the marketbased calculation method, and the Stocktions, Stockmann’s emissions for refrigerants (scope 1) have been excluded from the reporting , and their share of the total emissions in previous years has been around 3-4%. 50% of Lindex emissions from business travel, and low emission options are preferred for such trips. The company travel guideline recommends travel via train or bus over the use of a private mann Group’s total emissions were 61 870 electricity is car, and leasing cars have maximum emistCO2e, while location-based emissions were REDUCING TRANSPORT produced sions. During the reporting year, Stockmann 53 170 tCO2e (54 770). In the table, figures for EMISSIONS from renewal renewed its remote work practices, enabling previous years have been adjusted to marketThe Group serves customers in a number of energysources. remote work to be done more widely within based figures, which allows comparability. In different countries and continents, and the the organisation. The remote work practice 2017 the highest emissions, around 75%, came distribution of goods to these various stores creates the opportunity for the personnel to from the generation of purchased energy involves transport emissions. Considerable Our CDP result reduce commuting emissions. (Scope 2), especially electricity, which slightly attention is paid to the efficient and less was on the good level CDP SCORE B. decreased from the previous year. environmentally harmful movement of goods A little over half of the electricity used by and we collaborate closely with our transport In addition to publishing its annual report, the Lindex is renewable energy purchased from partners. During the reporting year we have Stockmann Group also reports on its greenLOS Energy, for which the emissions are zero. reduced the number of partners and deephouse gas emissions in the international Scope 3 indirect emissions are presented ened the cooperation with the current ones. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey. In where relevant; the biggest such emissions Internal transport is continuously optimised 2017, Stockmann’s score was good, with the can be attributed to logistics. through route planning, choosing optimally score B. The score presents a company’s The Group’s adjusted market-based sized transport equipment, taking advantage progress using a four-step approach: the total reported emissions declined by 1.3%. This of return transport, new equipment with low completeness of the company’s response was mainly due to the differences in the emis¬sions, and systematic follow-up and (disclosure); the extent to which the company reporting scope of Stockmann’s operations, active engagement with transport suppliers. has assessed environmental issues, risks and and in relation to this the emissions in scope 2 Flows of goods from the Asian purchasing impacts in relation to its business (awaredecreased. However, the reduction of emisoffices to the distribution centres are usually ness); the extent to which the company has sions is not clearly visible when comparing it by sea. Lindex is an active member of the implemented actions, policies and strategies with previous years, due to several factors. Clean Shipping Network, which requires that to address environmental issues (manageDuring 2017, Lindex’s purchased energy shipping companies promote cleaner shipment); and particular steps the company has (scope 2) emissions increased mainly due to ping and register their vessels in the Clean taken which represent the best practices in annual changes in emission factors and due Shipping Index registry. the field of environmental management to changes in the scope of store networks. The (leadership). Score B means that the comemissions from business travel (scope 3) REDUCING BUSINESS TRAVEL pany has taken actions to address environdeclined by 8%. Emissions for waste (scope 3) EMISSIONS mental issues beyond initial screenings or and real estate fuel consumption (scope 1) To minimise travel, videoconferencing and assessments. remained on the same level as in previous teleconferencing equipment is increasingly 36 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE The total amount of waste decreased in 2017 During the reporting year, we were Most of the Group’s water consumption takes The waste generated by the divisions’ operain Finland by approximately 20% (11%). The contacted regarding our approach to unsold place in the department stores’ restaurant, tions is mainly packaging waste, such as target for the recycling rate was 70%. The clothing. At Stockmann, all products are kitchen and sanitary facilities. Water concardboard and plastic. Biodegradable waste recycling rate in department stores in Finsold, using discount prices or by selling them sumption is minimised by instructing personis also generated in the Real Estate division, land was 70.4%. to the personnel in the personnel shops, so nel and tenants, preventing and repairing due to the tenants’ operations that include Waste management systems differ that no products are left. Mildew or other even the smallest leaks and procuring more grocery stores, restaurants and cafés. We between Finland and the Baltic countries. spoilage of the products during transportaefficient water fittings to replace older ones. pay close attention to waste sorting and The differences concern, for example, waste tion is rare. However, in such cases the recycling by providing training for personnel legislation, the number of different waste products end up as waste and the process is REUSE THROUGH DONATIONS and tenants, developing the guidance and fractions and final disposal of waste. monitored by Customs. making sorting practices more convenient. Decreasing food wastage has been a Water consumption in Stockmann’s Stockmann department stores and the supThe waste sorting is managed in focus area in our environmental work in own operations is minimal, and the operaport functions work together to promote accordance with the ISO 14001 environmenrecent years and the progress has been tions take place in areas where there is recycling by donating unsold products, prodtal management system, and the results for good. The sale of Stockmann Delicatessen’s currently no scarcity of water. Measuring and uct samples, and leftover materials and the various business locations are monitored business operations in Finland was comminimising water consumption is nevertheproducts from the design studio to agreed on a monthly basis. Our goal in Stockmann’s pleted on 31 December 2017, and as a result less an important part of Stockmann’s local partners and charitable organisations operations in Finland is to reduce the of this, the responsibility for preventing food environmental responsibility. Stockmann’s and various recycling workshops. In Helsinki, amount of waste and to recycle as much as wastage is now with the tenant. water consumption is presented in the table we have for several years cooperated on a possible of the remaining waste as material. ‘Energy and water consumption 2015-2017’. continuous basis with the Reuse Centre and its Näprä unit, by donating Stockmann’s own WASTE 2015-2017 design studio material samples to them. In Stockmann, Finland Stockmann, Baltics Lindex Total addition, we regularly donate garment and Tons 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 product samples to Hope ry, a non-profit RECYCLABLE WASTE organisation that distributes the donations to Cardboard and paper 1 211 1 604 1 772 245 236 206 1 179 1 205 1 211 2 635 3 045 3 189 Finnish families with limited means. Combustile waste 798 996 1 075 52 0 0 35 25 94 886 1 021 1 169 Bio waste 964 1 356 1 601 131 172 174 1 1 1 096 1 529 1 775 Other waste (plastic, metal, glass) 94 129 132 18 20 23 0 78 0 112 227 155 Lindex regularly donates unsold products to Mixed waste 157 224 238 459 470 444 2 5 5 619 699 687 Landfill waste 0 0 41 0 0 0 0 41 different charity organisations in accordance Combustile waste 157 224 197 459 2 618 224 197 with its clothes recycling and donation policy. HAZARDOUS WASTE 8 13 11 14 16 13 1 1 0 23 30 24 At the Head Office, product samples are sold TOTAL 3 388 4 322 4 829 919 915 860 1 219 1 314 1 310 5 526 6 551 6 999 at a garment sale every month, and leftover WASTE UTILIZATION, % 100 100 99 100 48 48 100 100 100 100 93 93 garments are donated to different charities. RECYCLING, % 70 72 73 43 48 48 97 98 92 73 74 73 The purchase offices also donate garments to Figures for Stockmann cover all the functions in Finland and Baltics, excluding discontinued operations (central kitchen in Finland). The Lindex figures covers the distribution centre in Sweden. different charities. The figures are not entirely comparable between the countries. 37 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE Commitment to responsible operations forms a core part of our daily ways of working. In our decision-making, we follow principles of good corporate governance. We aim for long-term profitable operations and are taking several structural measures in order to turn our business back to profit. 38 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 ECONOMIC TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) PERFORMANCE C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2017 STATUS The Stockmann Group’s adjusted operating FINANCE & We strive for ethical and We continued the roll-out of our CoC e-learning programme. By the end of In process result in 2017 was positive but decreased to GOVERNANCE transparent operations 2017, 30% of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland and 94% of Stockmann through commitment support functions and department store supervisors had completed the EUR 12.3 million (EUR 30.9 million). The operating results of Stockmann Retail and PROFITABILITY to the Stockmann Code training. The target is for 100% of the Group’s personnel to have completed WITH A of Conduct (CoC), the the training by the end of 2018. Real Estate improved but Lindex’s profitability SUSTAINABLE UN Global Compact declined considerably. During the year, an BUSINESS and the amfori BSCI Our target is to get 100% of Stockmann’s suppliers to sign the Stockmann impairment charge of EUR 150 million was APPROACH Code of Conduct CoC. We continued our work to reach the target. made for Lindex’s goodwill, and as a result, the Group’s net profit for the year remained We provide economic The Group’s adjusted operating result in continuing operations was positive in Target negative. The objective of 2018 is to improve added value to all our 2017, EUR 12.3 million (EUR 30.9 million). The net profit for the year remained not met stakeholders negative, and the Board of Directors proposes that no dividend be paid to the the Group’s operating result and make Stockshareholders. Suppliers and personnel continue to be the stakeholders receimann Retail’s operating profit positive again. ving the most economical added value: purchases from suppliers were EUR 790.5 million and salaries and other employee benefit expenses totalled EUR 201.6 million in 2017. READ MORE in the Financial Review at We provide transparent We published integrated reviews of the business operations, financials, goverOn target year2017.stockmanngroup.com and reliable CSR nance and CSR. We published new CSR information in the Report by the communications with Board of Directors, according to the EU directive 2014/95/EU for non-finanan integrated view cial information. We published detailed information about our CSR strategy targets and their progress. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED We carry out a human In 2017 we started a due diligence project to study the fulfilment of human In process The Stockmann Group’s operations bring rights assessment with rights in Lindex’s sales countries. The work continues in 2018. Our goal is to economic added value to the company’s key stakeholders continue a human rights assessment with our key stakeholders. stakeholders, operating areas and market areas. The majority of the economic added value goes into personnel salaries and other remuneration, as well as to goods and materials suppliers and service providers. Stockmann plc shares are listed on half of the earnings from ordinary operations. Inquiries regarding CSR topics by invesNasdaq Helsinki. The company had 46 672 No dividend was paid on the 2016 result due tors and similar stakeholders have somewhat (49 813) registered shareholders at the yearto the loss. The Board of Directors proposes to increased over the years. The biggest concerns end. The dividend policy set by Stockmann’s the Annual General Meeting that no dividend are the ability to pay dividends and debt. Board of Directors is to distribute more than be paid on the 2017 result. 39 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 VALUE TO STAKEHOLDERS CHARIT Y CO-OPERATION As part of its corporate social responsibility, Impacts Stockmann may make donations to non-profit public benefit organisations that fund educaCUSTOMERS Resources Sales excluding VAT, other operating income, financial income tion, culture, research and other social projects in the countries where Stockmann operates. PROFESSIONAL STAFF Charity work is guided by the donation policy & ORGANISATION EMPLOYEES Salaries, wages, pension contributions that is available on the company’s website. In and other benefits addition, Stockmann’s business units may also BRAND support the non-profit projects of public benefit PRODUCTS STOCKMANN SOCIETY organisations as part of their commercial Social security payments & taxes GROUP campaigns and activities. OMNICHANNEL SUPPLIERS � OTHER PARTNERS SERVICES Cost of goods, materials & services FINANCIAL RESOURCES • We campaigned to reduce the use of � PROPERTIES INVESTORS � SHAREHOLDERS Financial expenses shopping bags together with WWF Finland, NATURAL RESOURCES donating EUR 21 254 towards Baltic Sea protection work. Also, department stores in the Baltics started charity co-operation with their local WWF. DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE TO DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS • In our Christmas season campaign, EUR million 2017* 2016* 2015* 2014* 2013 together with our customers, we fulfilled Producing added value the Christmas wishes of youngsters in Customers Sales excluding VAT, other operating income, financial families with limited means, with EUR 35 income 1 060,3 1 177,5 1 435,8 1 606,0 2 041,6 000, delivered by Hope ry, a non-profit Goods suppliers and service providers Costs of goods, materials and services purchased, includes capital goods and paid rents -790,5 -864,9 -1 147,6 -1 320,4 -1 567,3 organisation that supports Finnish families ADDED VALUE PRODUCED BY STOCKMANN 269,8 312,6 288,3 285,6 474,3 with limited means. In addition, we once Distribution of addedd value again took part in a campaign organized by Personnel Salaries, wages and pension contributions 201,6 233,0 281,9 315,5 353,5 Home Instead senior care, encouraging Shareholders Dividends 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 28,8 customers to buy Christmas flowers for Investors Financial expenses 31,8 23,9 22,1 23,8 32,1 lonely elderly people with limited means. Public sector Other social security payments, taxes 53,2 50,1 54,7 37,0 22,7 • We donated our website to the Red Cross DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS IN TOTAL 286,7 307,0 358,7 376,3 437,0 Hunger Day collection. Retained in the company to develop operations -16,9 5,6 -70,4 -90,7 37,2 • We donated a shop window to children’s * Continuing operations rights organisation Plan to showcase Stockmann Delicatessen operations in Finland has been reported as discontinued operations in 2017, the comparison year 2016 has been restated. The department store business in Russia has been reported as discontinued operations in 2016 and 2015, the comparison year 2014 has been restated. ”Maternity Clothing for 12-year-olds”. 40 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 corporate policies using the channel. Stockdirections and strategies at Lindex, working in • Lindex is one of the main partners of the mann’s employees also have the possibility to line with the Stockmann Group level strategy. Pink Ribbon project. In the 2017 campaign, report any suspicions to their supervisor, their The global sustainability team supports the Lindex, together with its clients, donated unit’s security manager, the company manageManagement Group in setting targets, strateEUR 900 000 to support cancer research. ment, the legal department, or the Group’s gies and overall directions. Each department Since 2003, Lindex’s campaigns have Internal Audit. All whistleblowing reports and and sales country organisation then aligns collected a total of EUR 13 million for the discussions are treated seriously and handled their sustainability work accordingly. Sustaincampaign. confidentially. All incidents are reported to the ability topics are discussed regularly at Lindex • In Lindex’s round-up campaigns, customDirector of Internal Audit and to the Director of Management Group meetings and are impleers were invited to round-up their purLegal Affairs. In 2017, no incidents were reported mented and followed up through the regular chases with an amount of their choice. through the channel. management systems. With the 2017 campaigns, a total of EUR Stockmann’s Communications and CSR 500 000 was donated for various causes, We campaigned to CSR ORGANISATION function is responsible for development, for example WaterAid. reduce the use of Stockmann’s CSR Steering Group, whose coordination and reporting of the Group’s • On the International Women’s Day, Lindex Chairwoman is Nora Malin, Director, Developcorporate social responsibility activities. shopping bags together campaigned to raise awareness of women ment, is responsible for steering, developing with WWF Finland. workers in the textile industry and donated and monitoring CSR within the Stockmann HUMAN RIGHTS 10% of the day’s earnings, EUR 114,000, to Group. The CSR Steering Group approves the HERHealth projects. READ MORE www.stockmanngroup.com/en/csr Group-level guidelines, sets goals for responASSESSMENT • Together with other Swedish fashion sibility and defines procedures which are The Stockmann Group respects and promotes retailers, Lindex campaigned to reduce the implemented with the help of normal manall human rights, as defined in the Code of use of plastic bags with the ’One Bag Habit’ CORPORATE agement systems. The Stockmann’s CSR Conduct and the supplementary Human campaign. During 2017, Lindex’s shops in GOVERNANCE strategy is agreed on and followed up in the Rights principles, which were approved by the Sweden generated EUR 280 000 in CSR Steering Group and approved by the Board of Directors in February 2018. Most of surplus for the bags, which was donated to The principles guiding Stockmann’s operaStockmann Management Team. the Stockmann Group’s own employees work causes that drive sustainable developtions are described at the beginning of this Separate working groups related to CSR in countries classified by the amfori BSCI as mentthe Swedish STEPS research project review, in the section ‘CSR principles’. targets and topical issues are set up as neceslow-risk countries for human rights violations. and WaterAid. The One Bag Habit camsary to prepare or implement the issues or In 2017 we started a due diligence project to paign will expand into new operating GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS decisions that have been dealt with by the study the fulfilment of human rights in Lindex countries during 2018. The company uses a group-wide whistleblowCSR Steering Group. sales countries. The work continues in 2018. ing reporting channel, which is provided by an In addition, Stockmann’s environmental Our goal is to continue a human rights assessexternal partner. The channel is a tool for management group convenes regularly, to ment with our key stakeholders. Human rights Stockmann’s own employees, as well as for follow-up on environmental management assessment in the supply chain are discussed business partners and other stakeholders, to issues as required for the ISO 14001 certificate. in chapter ‘Supplier Assessment for Labour anonymously report any suspected or detected The Lindex Management Group is Practices and Human Rights’ violations of the Code of Conduct or other responsible for the overall sustainability 41 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION operating in 90 countries that works to comanalysing business risks and evaluating COMMUNICATION AND AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE bat international bribery and corruption. actions, as a part of strategy planning. BusiTRAINING ON CODE OF CONDUCT ness risks are also analysed outside the Employees are trained in matters related to BEHAVIOUR CORRUPTION RISK ASSESSMENT strategic process, especially in connection with the Code of Conduct and encouraged to Stockmann strives to carry out transparent The Group’s international operations pose significant projects and investments, and are contact their supervisor if the best course of and responsible operations. Stockmann’s polichallenges for resolute anti-corruption action. reported to the Board of Directors as needed. action is unclear. The Group-wide Code of cies relating to anti-corruption and antiAnti-corruption policies are included in the Unethical business practices among Conduct is published on the Group website competitive behaviour are included in the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct and the StockStockmann’s employees or various stakeholdand communicated internally via the intranet. Stockmann Code of Conduct and further mann Supplier Code of Conduct, which are ers could cause reputational damage for Roll-out of the Stockmann Group’s specified in the Stockmann anti-corruption implemented in our own brands’ supply chain. Stockmann as well as a possible financial Code of Conduct e-learning programme policy, approved in 2014. Both are available on The Board of Directors has approved impact. In 2017, there were no confirmed continued during 2017. By the end of 2017, the Group website. the company’s risk management policies, cases of corruption and Stockmann was not 30% of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland and Stockmann’s employees and managewhich concern all of the Stockmann Group’s informed of any corruption-related lawsuits 94% of Stockmann support functions and ment must act in the best interests of the divisions and areas of business. An essential against the Group. department store supervisors had completed company and in a manner that avoids conpart of internal control is the Internal Audit, the training. The target is for 100% of the flicts of interest. For years already, Stockmann which operates as an independent unit under Group’s personnel to have completed the personnel has been instructed on Stockmann the CEO and reports its observations to the training by the end of 2018. policies regarding the acceptance of samples, Board of Directors. READ MORE During 2017, a revision was made to the The company’s risk management, risk gifts, travel expenses or other monetary Stockmann’s Board of Directors and the factors and internal control systems are Lindex Ethical policy and it was approved in benefits, especially from suppliers, through Group Management Team regularly evaluate explained in more detail in the Corporate the Lindex Management Group. The StockGovernance 2017, which is a part of the the Employee Discount Rules. the risk factors to which business operations Group’s yearly reporting at mann Code of Conduct, the Lindex Ethical Likewise, the Lindex Ethical Policy has are exposed and the sufficiency of risk manyear2017.stockmanngroup.com Policy, the Anti-corruption policy and the provided a foundation for counteracting all agement actions, as a part of the strategy incorporated whistleblowing system will be forms of corruption at Lindex. It has been process. Risk management is supported by developed into an e-learning programme for applied in all countries of operation and all internal control systems and guidelines. Risk all Lindex employees to complete. suppliers are informed of this before entering management guidelines have been drawn up into cooperation. For example, our suppliers separately for the following areas, among are not permitted to give any gifts, other than others: IT and information security, finance ordinary courtesy corporate gifts, or any other operations, environmental issues, misconbenefits to individual employees. duct, security and insurance. Stockmann is a founding member of The divisions’ respective management Transparency Suomi ry, the Finnish chapter of are responsible for making financial and Transparency International, an organisation strategic plans in their own units and for 42 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organisation 42-45, GRI index Stockmann Oyj Abp 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3,Stockmann in brief, The origin, production conditions and health impact of products are a topic of public discussion. Topics raised 22-30, Products and Supply Chain by our stakeholders are presented in the relevant section of this review. For example materials of animal orgin are dealt with in the Group's product guidelines http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/product-guidelines 102-3 Location of headquarters 3, Stockmann in brief 102-4 Location of operations 3, Stockmann in brief, 22-30, Product and Supply chain, GRI index: disclosure number 102-6 102-5 Ownership and legal form Our year 2017 Business Review, Financial Review 102-6 Markets served 3, Stockmann in brief Stockmann Retail: in total 8 department stores in Finland, Estonia and Latvia. Stockmann has made a licensing agreement concerning the use of the Stockmann brand in Russia until 2023. Reviva Holding Limited’s subsidiary AO Stockmann Reviva has been responsible for the Stockmann department stores’ operations in Russia since 1 February 2016. Stockmann Real Estate: in total 5 properties in Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Russia. Lindex: In 2017, Lindex had 490 stores. Own stores were located in 10 countries in Europe: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Czech, Slovakia, Poland, UK. 46 frachise stores were located in 8 countries: Saudi Arabia, Bosnia Herzegovina, Serbia, Iceland, Kosovo, Albania, Qatar, Tunisia. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Our year 2017 Business Review 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 14-21, Personnel 102-9 Supply chain 22-30, Products and Supply Chain Supplier and factory list for own fashion brands: http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/supplier-and-factorylist 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply Financial Review / Report by the Board of Stockmann and S Group signed an agreement in June on the sale of the Stockmann Delicatessen business chain Directors, 22-3+, Products and Supply Chain operations in Finland to S Group’s regional cooperatives. The transaction was concluded on 31 December 2017. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Review 102-12 External initiatives 4-9, CSR principles 102-13 Membership of associations stockmanngroup.com http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/activities-in-organisations 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our year 2017 Business Review 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 4-9, CSR principles, The Stockmann Group's values: http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/core-values 37,41, Finance and Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance review, 37-41, Finance and Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 9, Stakeholder engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 14-21, Personnel 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9, Stakeholder engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9, Stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Entire review Key topics raised in stakeholder engagement and Stockmann's response to them are presented in the relevant section of the review. 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial review, Notes to the Consolidated Financial All the annual reviews are available at year2017.stockmanngroup.com. statements Statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 8, Reporting principles and materiality 102-47 List of material topics 8, Reporting principles and materiality 102-48 Restatements of information 42-43, GRI index Changes reported in connection with relevant performance indicators. 102-49 Changes in reporting 8, Reporting principles and materiality No significant changes in the list of material topics or topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period 8, Reporting principles and materiality 102-51 Date of most recent report 8, Reporting principles and materiality 102-52 Reporting cycle 8, Reporting principles and materiality 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 42-43, GRI index csr@stockmann.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 8, Reporting principles and materiality, This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Standards 42-43, GRI index 102-55 GRI content index 42-43, GRI index 102-56 External assurance 8, Reporting principles and materiality Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, Reporting principles and materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components Entire review A more specific location is provided in the GRI index under the relevant topic. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42-43, GRI index Evaluation of the management approach is a continuous activity. Based on the evaluation, changes are made to practices in day-to-day management as well as part of annual and strategic planning. Changes have also been made to management methods, for example, in connection with organizational changes. TOPIC SPECIFIC CONTENT Topic specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material Economic impacts 201 Economic performance 37-41, Finance and Governance The management approach is described in the section 'Finance and Governance'. 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed F37-41, inance and Governance 204 Procurement practices 22-30, Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers The aspect is defined material but the suggested indicator is not suitable. Information on Procurement practices is provided in section 'Products and Supply Chain'. A list of the fashion own brands suppliers and producers is available at http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/supplier-and-factory-list 205 Anti-corruption 37-41, Finance and Governance The management approach is described in the section 'Finance and Governance'. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 37-41, Finance and Governance policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 37-41, Finance and Governance 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 37-41, Finance and Governance The management approach is described in the section 'Finance and Governance'. 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti42,43, GRI index There were no legal actions or fines for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices or their trust, and monopoly practices outcomes in 2017. Environmental impacts 301 Materials 22-30, Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 42-43, GRI index The aspect is defined material but the suggested indicator is not suitable. Information on the fulfillment of producer responsibility and regarding opportunities to recycle offered to customers is provided in section 'Customers', in the chapter 'Services to support sustainable lifestyles'. 44 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions 302 Energy 31-36, Environment The management approach is described in the section 'Environment'. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 31-36, Environment 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation 31-36, Environment A limited amount of data is collected on energy consumption outside the organisation for disclosure 305-3. 303 Water 42-43, GRI index, The aspect is not defined material. 31-36, Environment, Water Consumption in Own Activity 22-30, Products and Supply Chain, Waste water is covered in the section 'Environment' in the chapter 'Waste water and waste'. The wastewater 10-13, Customers from operations goes into the municipal sewer systems. The company has no emissions into the water system. Indirect Water Consumption Use of water in our supply chain is explained in the section 'Products and Supply Chain' in the chapter 'Suppliers Environmental Assessment'. Our indirect impacts also include water use in the usage phase, such as washing clothes at home. This topic is discussed in the section 'Customer' in the chapter 'Tips for choosing and taking care of clothing'. 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 31-36, Environment Water is not recycled or reused in the operations. 304 Biodiversity Not reported The aspect is not defined material. The company’s department stores and stores are located in areas zoned as commercial properties. As commercial functions are not located in conservation areas or other areas rich in terms of biodiversity, the Group’s impacts on biodiversity are low. 305 Emissions 31-36, Environment The management approach is described in the section 'Environment'. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 31-36, nvironment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 31-36, Environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 31-36, Environment Indirect scope 3 emissions are presented where relevant: the biggest such emissions can be attributed to logistics and waste. 306 Effluents and waste 31-36, Environment The management approach is described in the section 'Environment'. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 31-36, Environment Social impacts 401 Employment 14-21, Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 14-21, Personnel Not reported by gender or age group, information not available. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 14-21, Personnel Benefits exceeding the statutory level have not been reported in detail. provided to temporary or part-time employees Practices vary in different operating countries. 402 Labour/Management relations 14-21, Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 42-43, GRI index Stockmann operates according to the notice periods specified in local labour legislation in all its operating countries. In Finland, the notice period is between two weeks and six months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship. In Sweden, the minimum is between one week to several months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship and nature of changes. Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes have not been defined in retail sector collective bargaining agreements. 403 Occupational health and safety 14-21, Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 403-1 Workers' representation in in formal joint management 14-21, Personnel – worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 14-21, Personnel Information by gender is not available at the moment. Occupational diseases and lost days not reported. diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404 Training and education Personnel 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 14-21, Personnel Information on training by gender is not available. Information by employee category or other countries of operation is not collected in equal detail. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 14-21, Personnel transition assistance programmes 45 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 14-21, Personnel Information by gender or employee category is not available at the moment. and career development reviews 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 14-21, Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 14-21, Personnel Comparison figures are in part inadequate. Information on minority group membership is not collected, as this is not permitted under Finnish legislation. Employees according to employee category not reported. The aim is to report the information in the future. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 14-21, Personnel The reporting covers Stockmann’s operations in Finland. men 406 Non-discrimination 14-21, Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 14-21, Personnel 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 14-21, Personnel, The management approach is described in the sections 'Personnel' and 'Products and Supply Chain'. 22-30, Products and Supply Chain 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 22-30, Products and Supply Chain Most of the Stockmann Group’s own employees work in countries classified by the Amfori BSCI as low-risk of association and collective bargaining may be at risk countries for human rights violations. The fullfillment of freedom of association in the supply chain is monitored through own audits and those made by a third party 412 Human rights assessment 37-41, Finance and Governance, The management approach is described in the sections 'Finance and Governance' and 'Products and Supply 22-30, Products and Supply Chain Chain'. 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 37-41, Finance and Governance, reviews or impact assessments 22-3+, Products and Supply Chain 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or F37-41, inance and Governance procedures 414 Supplier social assessment 22-30, Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 22-30, Products and Supply Chain 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 22-30, Products and Supply Chain amfori BSCI audit results are reported for one comparison year, due to changes in audit protocol and audit taken scoring during 2015. 415 Public policy The aspect is not defined material. 415-1 Political contributions 42-45, GRI index Stockmann does not make political contributions or donations to any politicians, political parties or related organizations, either directly or indirectly. 416 Customer health and safety 22-30, Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 22-30, Products and Supply Chain, GRI index During the reporting year, there were no warnings, legal actions or fines associated with the health or safety safety impacts of products and services risks of own brand products sold in Stockmann department stores or Lindex stores. 417 Marketing and labelling 10-13, Customers The management approach is described in the section 'Customers'. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing GRI index There were no incidents of non-compliance with legislation or voluntary principles in 2016. communications 418 Customer privacy 10-13, Customers The management approach is described in the section 'Customers'. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 10-13, Customers customer privacy and losses of customer data * All standards: version 2016 Customer satisfaction 10-13, Customers This topic is material to Stockmann but it is not covered by an existing GRI Standard. The management approach is described in the section 'Customers'. Net promoter score (NPS), likelihood to recommend Customers service
