MAY 8, 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IMPLEMENTING UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN NATURE BY MARC BEYROUTHY KASLIK, LEBANON 1. INTRODUCTION “I am pleased to confirm that Nature by Marc Beyrouthy reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Marc Beyrouthy Chairman and CEO pg. 1 2. NATURE BY MARC BEYROUTHY “Our ultimate mission is to help our clients to make choices that preserve, restore and promote a green lifestyle. Each purchase is the buyer's own contribution to make the world a better place.” Our founder beliefs that a sustainable life is about making the everyday choices that are safe for every living being. Nature by Marc Beyrouthy has been determined to help change the way people live and enhance the way they are connected with the planet, by offering services and products which impact the world in a positive way. The company is called “Nature” because it’s simply powered by Nature. “Nature” it is an accessible gleaming shop combining the best variety of ecological products and services, to beautifully green people’s lives. It creates and provides a responsible various range of home goods; offering an assortment of environmentally friendly lifestyle products, services and home solutions that are all stylish, original and authentic, reclaimed, recycled, natural or organic, and made with the highest respect for the planet and its people. “Nature” has been dedicated to serving the local and surrounding communities and has been committed to a healthy and conscious lifestyle, presenting itself as a platform through which sustainability is transformed from a movement into a household feature. Its mission is to educate and inspire people to become personally involved and passionately committed to changing the world through products with purpose. Nature is not only a unique shop with exceptional products but even more. It is also a place that offers a great selection of services for a greener life too, like providing its customers with experts to help them in landscaping and garden maintenance; water management and irrigation services, plant nurseries & glass houses, green walls, vertical gardens and green roofs, eco-friendly decoration & upcycling. We believe that the best way to preserve our culture is to keep it alive; it serves as a platform to showcase “Mouneh” products prepared by local women thus empowering them and increasing their participation in economic growth are among our utmost goals. In addition to the role played in the local communities, Nature provides a space for local talented artists to shine and turn recycled and upcycled trash into decorative objects or gadgets. We offer services that help companies and households go green and through our activities, we offer our contribution to minimize climate change. We also want to be a responsible business that meets the highest standards of ethics and professionalism. We are committed to the following:  Respect the law  Honor its internal policies  Ensure that all its business operations are legitimate  Keep every partnership and collaboration open and transparent  Recycle pg. 2  Conserve energy  Organize reforestation excursions  Sponsor nature-related events  Favor work with affordable and clean energy  Promote nature friendly products within our company  Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies aiming to have sustainable cities and communities  Promote Life on land We’ll always conduct business with integrity and respect to the environment and to the community. We’ll promote:  Safety and fair dealing for decent work and economic growth  Respect toward the consumer  Anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices  Gender equality  Support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights (reduce inequality) and eliminate forced labor and child labor  Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation  Work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery  Good health and wellbeing of everyone related to the company. pg. 3 3. OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES In 2017 Nature by Marc Beyrouthy signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • People (employees, clients and suppliers) • Society (locally) • Environment In this connection we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages. The first stage would thus concentrate on implementing initiatives within the board of direction to ensure that all employees understood UNs basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organization. The second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the board of directors, first towards our members, then towards our clients and suppliers and later toward the society. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES GENDER EQUALITY CLIMATE ACTION LIFE ON LAND pg. 4 4. CONTENTS OF NATURE BY MARC BEYROUTHY CSR POLICY The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organization, has been initiatives concerning the environment: we trained the employees on where to throw each item and in which recycle big as well as the cleaning staff. We now have a zero waste company. We also are implementing initiatives to lower energy: we have changed all lights to LED lights and we have a timer for the outdoor sign lights. We have a list of initiatives we are working on to go further in elaborating and implementing Eco-friendly alternatives. In terms of our company, the employment is made equally between genders and they have the same salary for the same position. In addition, we tend to buy our food items, terroir products, directly from the farmer: mainly women working at home or in cooperative they organize. This is our contribution to the empowerment of women, helping them stay in their village and live in dignity. This is a way to promote gender equality in business relations too that we are proud of. Our products are thus sustainable apart from the business operations getting them in our boutique, the packages are eco-friendly, we don’t use plastic bags to take away products but paper bags and we are working of canvas tote bags. Furthermore, our company is contributing to making the world a better place to live by designing and planting gardens, managing indoor and terrace plants in households, institutions, and companies. We also help companies to become greener by making green studies to transform their institutions in ecofriendly environment. We are also promoting through our free workshops the green mentality. Twice per month, we have in our facilities sessions related to nature, environment, plants, natural products, etc. People are invited to gets lectures and hands on workshop in different field; we put them in touch with professionals in these fields of work. Finally, part of our social responsibility act and management, we organize fairs (farm fair, Christmas fairs etc.). Unique events aiming to social support Lebanese artisans and different associations to sustain and to pursue their mission and activities. We expose, ranges of local food products and artisanal, handcrafts obtained from local rural agro-food producers and social associations working with individuals and children with special needs and by Lebanese rural women cooperatives adopting traditional recipes. The market is usually shared by artisans, village women, farmers, and associations, etc. We have provided our location for free with 0 commissions on sales. pg. 5 5. FUTURE INITIATIVES We are planning to ratify the climate act and sign it. We are looking for alternatives in nylon bags and plastic containers we buy some the dried fruits in. We are also intensifying our events promoting changes in mentality through free session and fairs in our facilities. We will not miss a chance to communicate about nature in any occasion presented. This is part of our mission which we are proud of and we aim to really make changes in the minds of people in our society. pg. 6
