SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 reporting period 2017 according to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard INDEX INDEX STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY 5.7. Customer’s health and safety 1. Letter to Stakeholder 5.8. Privacy 1.1. Support for the United Nations Global Compact Suppliers 6. Procurement of products and services ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 6.1. Sustainable procurement of forestall 2. General Info products 2.1. Who we are 6.2. Suppliers 2.2. The Plants 6.3. Control of the suppliers’ sustainability 2.3. Our business lines requirements 2.4. Our brands 6.4. Our commitment on the conflict 2.5. Our history minerals 2.6. Activities e results 2017 6.5. Focus on biodiversity 6.6. Indigenous population rights GOVERNANCE 3. Corporate structure and Palladio Group STRATEGIC TARGETS 3.1. Management systems 7. The main strategic targets and results 3.2. Our principles and values 3.3. Ethic Code ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 8. Economic management MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODS AND 8.1. Sustainable Development RESULTS 8.2. Palladio’s retirees group 4. Identified material aspects and 8.3. Market presence boundaries 4.1. Identification and context of each material aspect ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9. Environmental responsibility DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 9.1. Emissions 5. Relations with Stakeholders 9.2. Carbon Footprint 5.1. Communication and dialogue 9.3. Energy initiatives with Stakeholder 9.4. Waste 5.2. Palladio Group News 9.5. Drains 5.3. Transparency e sharing with 9.6. Water Stakeholder 5.4. Stakeholder involvement 5.5. Customers 5.6. Customers’ satisfaction INDEX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 16. COMPLIANCE 10. Work practices and adequate working conditions 17. TABLES OF DATAS AND INDICATORS 10.1. Employment 10.2. Diversity and equal opportunities 18. ANNEXES 10.3. Industrial relations 18.1. Annex 1 Table of determination 10.4. Health and safety at work material aspects and boundaries 18.2. Annex 2 Table coefficients as 11. Training and education used for environmental 11.1. Professional development, careers calculations and human resources evaluation 18.3. Annex 3 Table of correlation of 11.2. Safety training the Report with the UN Global 11.3. Palladio Academy Compact 10 principle 11.4. Palladio Wiki 18.4. Annex 4 life cycle assessment 11.5. Ethics and anti-corruption training (LCA) 11.6. First aid BLSD courses 18.5. Annex 5 life cycle impact 11.7. Environmental and sustainability assessment (LCIA) training 11.8. Lean manufacturing meetings 19. CERTIFICATIONS 19.1. Financial statement 12. Human rights certification Palladio Group 12.1. Antidiscrimination 19.2. Financial statement certification 12.2. Freedom of association and Ireland collective bargaining 19.3. Financial statement certification 12.3. Child labour Palladio East 12.4. Forced labour 19.4. SGS certification Sustainability 12.5. Assessment Report 13. Society GRI CONTENT INDEX 13.1. Local Communities 20. Report’s explanatory contents table (GRI 13.2. Anticorruption STD) 13.3. Politic 21. Sustainability Report’s assessment 14. Marketing communication questionnaire 15. REPORT PROFILE 15.1. Link to the 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact INDEX MISSION We aim to make excellence our standard, paying great attention to innovation and to the full sustainability of our processes INDEX STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY 1. LETTER TO STAKEHOLDER (Rif. 102-14/15) Palladio Group, after the celebrations for the 70th anniversary of its history, which took place in December 2016, has experienced a year characterized by a renewed impetus towards the future, which has resulted in the implementation of important investments in Italy and abroad. Significant investments were made in the new P24 department at the Pontedera plant, which allows us to produce and deliver cartons, instructions and labels in 24 hours; at the Thiene plant the Assembled department was inaugurated, while in Dueville the area for the production of leaflets was doubled. Moving to our foreign offices in June, we successfully completed yet another phase of growth for the Group. In fact, on 8 June the new plant in Russia was inaugurated in the city of Obninsk. In the presence of the governor of the Kaluga region we cut the ribbon of this brand new factory whose production officially started in October. Palladio BNM is a green field investment deriving from a joint venture agreement signed in 2014 between the company Palladio Group and BNM International. The new company stands out for its flexibility of concept and potential for expansion, with the aim of reaching 12,500 m2 of surface area and about 200 employees. The Company's evolution, which took place over time through multiple acquisitions and the increase in the range of products and services for our customers, is evidence of an organic strategy of creating shared value, guaranteeing commitment to protection and compatible and ethical use of natural and human resources. In fact, what has never changed in these seventy years, and that has helped us to grow, has made excellence our standard, always paying great attention to innovation and the complete sustainability of our processes. The economic trend was positive again this year and with the start of new departments and with the increase in orders in the illustrative leaflets sector, the number of staff increased by 30 units. 2017 was also a year full of satisfactions for our company that has won prestigious awards such as: the 2017 Innovation Award from our client Bristol Myers Squibb, the Oscar winner of the Press as Best Cartotecnica, the Gold Prize from our Customer Janssen, the Confindustria Serbia Award for Palladio East in the Socially Responsible Entrepreneurship category. But as we say the past has passed and we must look to the future and even if the general economic trend seems to turn to the beautiful competition remains high and new challenges appear on the horizon. So, in line with the commitments made and pursued over the years for quality, the environment and for health and safety at work and ethics, we will continue to make sustainability the central element SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 1 of 101 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY of all business processes that contribute to the production of the product supplied to the market where the same work. The thinking of our company in this regard, can be summarized in the belief that sustainable development is the only form of development of society that does not compromise the ability of future generations to persist in development itself, preserving the quality and quantity of heritage and natural reserves. The respect and protection of Health and Safety at Work, the Environment and Human Rights constitute the foundation of the Company's operating strategies and concern the entire organization in relation to the relevant activities / processes planned and carried out for: Design and production of packaging materials and services for the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries . In compliance with the Legal Requirements in force in the countries in which we operate and in compliance with the principles defined in the Code of Ethics (revised during the year 2017), the Group is committed to respecting and promoting actions for the management of forest resources consistent with the respect of the values ethical and environmental and with the orientation to continuous improvement. In particular, the organization is committed to the major concerns of our time: sustainable development, respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and adherence to international accounting standards, as defined by the OECD and the UN, such as the Global Compact. The objective of the entire Palladio Group is to pursue, year after year, an economic development compatible with social equity and ecosystems, operating under an environmental balance. This means that the economic, social and environmental dimensions are closely interrelated, and any programming intervention will inevitably have to take into account mutual interrelations. Over the years we have always invested in human and economic resources to ensure well-being and satisfaction at the workplace. We have also confirmed our commitment to adhering to charitable activities that could help the next by making donations to non-profit foundations, local and international aware that our small gesture is a great help for them. We will continue to be active in supporting environmental projects, social and cultural activities in the local communities in which we operate especially by involving future generations. Specific targets were set in 2014 for the reduction of total greenhouse gas emissions for 2018 and 2020. The target for this target is a reduction of 15% by 2018 and by 20% by 2020, based on levels of 2012. Linked to this goal is the use of alternative sources such as photovoltaic, renewable energy purchase. It should be noted that since January 2017 a contract has been signed for the purchase of energy exclusively from renewable sources for all Italian plants, while the Irish plant has joined since July. The above led to a reduction of about 12% of CO 2. Other strategic objectives concerning sustainable procurement, human rights and resource management are reported in a specific paragraph. The Organization has also identified and included in its KPIs, in order to monitor it, a specific indicator for the assessment of its carbon price through the ratio between the economic value of carbon and the directly generated value. page 2 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY 1.1 Support for the United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) In May 2012 Palladio Group has formalized its adhesion to the Global Compact of the United Nations, a joint initiative between companies from around the world, United Nations agencies and groups representing the interests of labour and civil society. The aim of the initiative is to involve the business world in a new form of collaboration through the adherence to ten universal principles concerning human rights, labour protection, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. It also aims to make its principles an integral part of the business strategy and to promote collaborations in line with the objectives of the United Nations in order to achieve global growth that takes into account the interests and concerns of stakeholders. Palladio Group's motivation to join the UN Global Compact was based on the fact that many of its principles favour our business, while others are directly related to the Group's main activities and its competitiveness on the market. Treating employees fairly and respectfully is a natural thing for a well-managed company and contributes to the ability of Palladio Group to attract and retain the best talent. The maintenance of safeguards against corruption and violations of human rights as well as being the right thing to do protects the Company from legal responsibilities. Optimizing the environmental performance of our company's activities is a key business responsibility and helps reduce material and energy costs. In relation to these general rules of good business management, we therefore undertake to maintain the Global Compact (and its principles) as an integral part of our business strategy and our culture in all business activities that focus on the protection and compatible use of natural and human resources. In order to be able to provide our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders with information on our sustainability and performance objectives, we have based sustainability reporting on GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards in order to communicate the results obtained to our Stakeholders in complete transparency. The usual Communication On Progress (COP) to describe what has been implemented and implemented by Palladio Group to respect the principles promoted by the Global Compact has been integrated into this reporting. As a Managing Director, I cordially thank you, honoured in pursuing this path together with the United Nations Global Compact. Mauro Marchi Chief Executive Officer SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 3 of 101 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY page 4 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2. GENERAL INFO (Rif. 102-1/2/3/4/5/6/7) Palladio Group S.P.A was established in 1946 and thus has about 70 years of experience characterized by a progressive growth focused on the commitment to fulfil, in the respect of a sustainable and socially responsible industrial development, the expectations/ needs of its customers and all other Interested Parties. A growth that has enabled the company to transform itself from a small local business to an international company, technologically advanced, capable of imposing itself in the challenge against leading competitor in the national and international markets in which it operates. Our clients are leading multinational companies with whom we have established supply relationships and collaboration that are fundamental to innovation and continuous improvement of the products and services provided.Nowadays Palladio Group is a cutting edge Italian multinational operating in the production-delivery of goods and services for secondary and primary packaging, of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. Palladio Group’s main goal is to offer products, services and expertise in compliance with the requirements, while trying to anticipate and meet customer needs. The production is based on project, according to the information and technical specification provided by the customer, in compliance with the applicable requirements and mandatory laws. All the production activities are performed using machinery and facilities that are technologically highly advanced, this in order to guarantee safety, environmental protection and reduction of energy consumption. 2.1 Who we are Palladio Group, the parent company of the Group, is a public limited company under Italian law. The three foreign subsidiaries are limited liability companies. Our reference market is the pharmaceutical market and our core business is represented by the production of secondary packaging material for the most important multinational pharmaceutical companies.The object of the Group's activity is substantially homogeneous among the various Plants and can be referred to as design and production of packaging and services for the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries . SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 5 of 101 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.2 The Plants Palladio Group spa has its headquarter in Dueville (Vicenza) and several production plants located in Italy and abroad in line with the company's strategy to produce in countries where growth and / or market opportunities are expected. Obninsk, Russia Tullamore, Ireland Dueville (Headquarter), Italy Thiene, Italy Pontedera, Italy Prato, Italy Vrsac, Serbia Registered office and Italian plants Foreign plants Palladio Group spa Headquarter Via Cresole, 8 Dueville (Vicenza) Italy Palladio Ireland ltd Products: cartons, leaflets Sragh Industrial Estate Tullamore (Co. Offaly) – Ireland Area: 30.000 mq Products: cartons Area: 5.000 mq Via Campazzi, 10 Thiene (Vicenza) – Italy Products: cartons, blister Palladio East doo Area: 16.000 mq Beogradski put 26300 Vršac (Vojvodina) Serbija Via Maremmana (Z.I. Gello) – Pontedera (Pisa) Italy Products: cartons, leaflets, labels Products : cartons, leaflets, labels, aluminium foils Area: 15.000 mq Area: 38.000 mq Palladio Obninsk llc Kievskoe highway, km. 104 Pharma Partners 249032 Obninsk, Kaluga Region Russian Federation Via Ettore Strobino, 55/57 Prato Italy Products: cartons Packaging of medical devices Area: 20.000 mq page 6 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.3 Business lines 7 83 mln 700+ Plants Turnover Human Resources 1,7 bln 800 mln 600 mln 500 tons In the Group, at 31/12/2017, over 700 employees were employed, operating at the seven plants. The total production capacity of the Group is approximately: 1700 million cases, 800 million sheets of illustrations 600 million labels. 500 tons of aluminium 2.4 Our brands Secondary packaging products  Folding cartons (flat and glued)  Blister.  Leaflets on reels/folded/flat/booklet).  Flow pack (leaflets + alert card)  Self-adhesive labels  P24 (digital printing of cartons, leaflets and labels) Blister packs  Primary packaging products  Printed aluminium tapes Services  Over labelling.  Vendor Managed Inventory.  Artwork development  Packaging of medical devices for third parties SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 7 of 101 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.5 Our History This is the story of an Italian company founded in 1946, which has always been focused on results, evolving from a local dimension to national levels and that has been able to stand out against its international competitors. All this was possible because the company remained firmly attached to a business model that proved to be effective over the years, and that is now appreciated by all our customers as synonymous with quality and reliability. 1946 1980 Acquisition of the Società Tipolitografica Andrea Work is constantly increasing. The company moved to Palladio. the new factory in Dueville, which is still the Palladio During the 1950s, the company developed and changed headquarters. In the same year Mauro Marchi, Antonio's its name to Palladio Industria Tipolitografica S.p.A. The son, a third entrepreneurial generation, joined the specialization in the pharmaceutical sector began. company 1996 50 years after the foundation a second plant is opened in Thiene. The production capacity is doubled and at the same time the packaging market extends to the cosmetic industry . page 8 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2000 In October Palladio Zannini changes its corporate name Official start-up of the production of leaflets in Dueville’s and becomes Palladio Group S.p.A. Even the foreign plant; leading to the expansion of the range of products plants, located in Serbia and Ireland, Zannini East and of secondary-packaging supplied to our customers Zannini Ireland, take part in this evolution becoming respectively Palladio East and Palladio Ireland Packaging Solutions. 2004 The acquisition of Grafica Zannini is accomplished: the group is now enriched by two new plants in Tuscany, one in Ireland and one in Serbia. The Group is the 2016 absolute leader in Italy in the field of secondary packaging for the pharmaceutical sector. 2011 The fusion between Palladio and Grafica Zannini is formalized. Creation of the Palladio Zannini Industrie Grafiche Cartotecniche S.p.A. 2012 Palladio Group, together with its 600 employees, has The Serbian subsidiary Zannini East celebrates its 10th celebrated 70 years of commitment and passion, anniversary. marking this important anniversary with a ceremony in the prestigious setting of the Basilica Palladiana in 2013 Vicenza As part of the strategy of diversification of the industry in which it operates, Palladio Zannini takes control of the 2017 Officina Farmaceutica Pharma Partners, integrating it into a larger project of industrial growth. 2014 Expansion of about 2000 square meters of covered area of the plant located in Serbia. 2015 An important step has been added to our development Beginning construction of the new plant, at Obninsk in project: Palladio BNM. The grand opening ceremony the Kaluga Oblast (Russia), the company name is Palladio took place in the Obninsk production plant on 8 June Obninsk. 2017, in the presence of the Governor of the Kaluga region, national and international authorities, professional associations, business partners and the mass media. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 9 of 101 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.6 Activities and results in 2017 Our Group grows, expands and evolves. As announced in December 2015 during the big party to celebrate the first 70 years of Palladio Group, the project became a reality on June 8th 2016. On that date the new Obninsk production plant was inaugurated in the Kaluga region. of a joint venture stipulated in 2014 between Palladio Group and BNM International of Miograd Babic, a leading exponent in the Russian pharmaceutical market. The new Russian factory is the seventh industrial plant of Palladio Group. The decision to invest in the new Obninsk plant is linked to the development prospects of the Russian pharmaceutical market. In the Kaluga region there are the main pharmaceutical companies with a 37% production growth rate destined to increase even more with the Russia 2020 project to invest in internal production for the strategic sectors. The plant in Obninsk is currently dedicated to the production of high quality leaflets and cartons and, in the future, of printed aluminium. This new facility will offer a wide range of components and services for primary and secondary packaging, remaining mainly focused to the pharmaceutical industry, works in compliance with GMP regulations and standards and with the aim of continuous excellence, a constant vocation for innovation and the total sustainability of its process. Palladio Obninsk IS0 9001:2015 Certification In October, the Palladio Obninsk (Russia) plant reached an important milestone obtaining the certification according to ISO 9011: 2015. The certificate was issued by the SGS Board (Société Générale de Surveillance), a Swiss company that is a world leader in inspection, verification, analysis and certification services. The result was achieved thanks to the particular contribution of the Palladio East team that supported the demanding process of preparation and audit with great enthusiasm. This is recognition of excellence for the entire organization that rewards our work processes, customer orientation and, of course, the quality of our output. page 10 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE Palladio East celebrates 15 years in business During the usual Christmas dinner, dedicated to all the employees of Palladio East, in the presence of the Group high Management and the partner of BNM International (Miodrad Babic), the main stages of Palladio East’s development were reviewed through the words of Pera Todorovic, Director of the plant and Dr. Mauro Marchi, CEO of Palladio Group. The Serbian plant started in 2002 thanks to a forward-looking and innovative Joint Venture, in these 15 years has grown exponentially thanks to the commitment of the entire staff, aware of the ambitious project that was part of from the beginning. Awards for innovative products For several years Palladio Group has equipped itself with a Research and Development department not only to respond to the increasingly sophisticated needs emerging from the market, but also to try, if possible, to anticipate them with exclusive products and services. Over the last decade, through a strategy linked to innovation and articulated on several fronts, the Group has aimed to consolidate its leadership on the Italian domestic market by expanding its product range and above all by offering innovative services, such as for example VMI (Vendor Management Inventory) and InFact (daily delivery procedure on demand). Palladio Group and the interactive packaging as aid to the therapy Palladio Group is conducting specific research in this field in collaboration with national research institutes and international partners. The program called PhutureMed, conceived with the main goal of creating innovative packaging solutions for the medicine of the future. This has led to the development of projects with a high rate of innovation in the field of so-called intelligent packaging and telemedicine, like cases able to dialogue with electronic devices, such as smartphones, to monitor the correct intake of drugs and provide useful information on the dosage and on the state of conservation of same SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 11 of 101 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE Press Oscar: Palladio Group awarded as Best Cartotecnica 2017 During the XXVI edition of the Press Oscar Award 2017, whose goal is to reward excellent companies that represent the best of Print by Italy, Palladio Group has been awarded Best Cartotecnica 2017 . This prestigious recognition as an excellent company was obtained thanks to the unanimous vote of a jury made up of experts in the printing industry from the world of media, training, institutions in the sector, and communication buyers. The Press Oscars are not an award based on an evaluation of a printed work but take into consideration the value of the company as a whole and Palladio Group has fully responded to the various evaluation parameters such as ethical profile, budget results, investments technology, attention to the environment / sustainability, certification, internationalization, training. Palladio East awarded as a Socially Responsible Company by Confindustria Serbia Confindustria Serbia, on the occasion of the celebration of the fifth anniversary of its activity in Serbia, has conferred the Award for Socially Responsible Entrepreneurship to Palladio East. The price, awarded to Palladio East by the Ministry of the Environment, was based on the following parameters: investments in the field of environmental protection, in the fields of protection of health and safety at work, in the field of energy efficiency, support for the local community. page 12 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE Innovation award conferred by Bristol Myers Squibb With the following motivation: “Successfully achieving lead time reduction through Fast Cycle Time product delivery initiative. Set benchmark and enable Speed to Patient”, Bristol Myers Squibb has awarded this prestigious and well-deserved award to Palladio Group for its commitment to innovation in relation to the increasingly diversified demands of the market that, in this case through the implementation of new and specific processes, has allowed the reduction of the packaging delivery time. Performance Excellence Award by the customer Janssen For the eighth consecutive year our client Johnson & Johnson has rewarded Palladio Group with the Supplier Performance Excellence Award in recognition of the commitment in the process of suppliers ‘excellence. This award is given to suppliers who, constantly and consistently exceeding customer expectations, reach and maintain the Gold level for two years or more. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 13 of 101 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE page 14 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 3. ASSETTO SOCIETARIO DI PALLADIO GROUP (Rif. 102-18) The Governance model in use is the “traditional” type, which means that it is characterised by the dichotomy between the management body (Board of Directors) and the supervisory body (Union Board); the activities of statutory audit are entrusted to an Audit firm. The mechanisms of corporate governance adopted by Palladio Group, in line with the statutory provisions, intend to ensure an efficient and transparent functioning of the Company’s organs of government and control systems. The members of the Board of Directors are appointed according to integrity, professionalism and competence criteria defined by the Statute, they shall hold office for a period not exceeding three financial years and they end the mandate at the date of the Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the last year of their term. The directors are re-elected in accordance with art. 2383 of the Italian Civil Code. Palladio Group shareholders assembly, by resolution dated 17/06/2016, has appointed the new Company Board of Directors which will remain in office until approval of the financial statements 2018. In line with the provisions of the D.L. 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted by L. 7 August 2012 n.135, The Palladio Group’s Board of Directors is composed of seven members: President, CEO and five Councillors. More specific details about the members (i.e.: age, gender) can be found on public record available, upon request at one of the Group Companies, at the Register of Enterprises of the relevant Chamber of Commerce(C.I.A.A.). Palladio Group pursues the aim of good governance through the implementation of a set of values, rules and procedures, stated in the Ethic Code, which outlines the commitments and responsibilities that the company and those who work there, are taking in the management of each business activity. SHAREHOLDERS' ASSEMBLY Approves the financial statements, appoints the Board of Directors, the Board of Statutory Auditors, the Independent Auditors and changes the Bylaws BOARD OF BOARD OF AUDITING FIRM DIRECTORS AUDITORS Monitors on the compliance with the law and It ensures that the Company's the statute, on the observance of the Performs the audit of the financial management is carried out in principles for a proper administration, on the statements and carries out a periodical accordance with the corporate adequacy of the organizational, verification of the accounting. mission and purpose. administrative and accounting assets and their operational level SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 15 of 101 GOVERNANCE 3.1 The management systems (Rif. 102-11/12/13) The adoption of specific procedures for change management, analysis of the associated risks, the use of advanced technologies facilitates the achievement of the targets set in our respect for the Environment and Policy Health and Safety at Work. In recent years, thanks to effective technological processes, there have been reductions and (in some cases) elimination of substances harmful to the environment as well as health and safety in the workplace. The above has allowed greater protection for our employees and the reduction of emissions (waste production, air emissions, discharges, etc.) of hazardous substances. The precautionary approach of Palladio Group can be found in the adoption of the certifications listed below and in the financial statements of the Risk Fund, the Bad Debt Fund and the product RC. From the point of view of continuous improvement and in order to ensure all customers and consumers the quality and safety of our products, Palladio Group adopted, for some time, a Company Management Systems conforming to the requirements of the following voluntary frameworks: ISO 9001 (Quality Management Systems) G.M.P. (Good Manufacturing Practice) applicable to Pharmaceutical Packaging ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) CoC FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council ® Chain of Custody) CoC PEFCTM (Chain of Custody of Forest Base Products) ISO/IEC 27001 (Information Security Management System) Active Certifications Other Plant G.M.P. ISO 27001 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 CoC FSC® CoC PEFCTM Dueville X X X X X X X Thiene X X X X X X X Pontedera X X X X X X X Tullamore X X X Vršac X X X X X X X Obninsk X X X The Quality Management System is developed and maintained considering the GMP requirements applicable to pharmaceutical packaging. page 16 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE The organisation has also obtained the voluntary and independent certifications of traceability (chain of custody CoC) of products derived from forests certified FSC or PEFC. Because of this the Organisation is also committed to not be involved, directly or indirectly, in activities that are inconsistent with their policies of quality, environment and safety. In 2017 our management systems have been aligned with the regulations ISO\IEC 27001 (Information Security Management System). It is also noted that in the Palladio Ireland and Palladio Obninsk plant, although there are no certified Environmental and Safety systems, compliance with the binding legislation applicable in this matter is in force. We also adhere to initiatives promoted by:  COMIECO Consortium  LEGAMBIENTE Palladio Group is also a member of the following national and international trade associations:  AFI (Associazione Farmaceutici Industria)  ASSOGRAFICI  ATIF (Italian Technical Association for the development of Flexography)  CIAL (Aluminium Packaging Consortium)  COMIECO (National Consortium Recovery and Recycling of cellulose packaging)  CONAI (Packaging National Consortium)  ECMA (European Carton Makers Association)  ENIPG (Ente Nazionale Istruzione Professionale Grafica)  GIFASP (Italian Group Carton box Manufacturers)  GIPEA (Italian Group of Auto adhesive Labels Manufacturers)  HCPC Europe (Healthcare Compliance Packaging Council)  Italian Institute of Packaging)  INDUSTRIAL UNION (for the plants in Vicenza, Pisa and Serbia) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 17 of 101 GOVERNANCE 3.2 Our Principles and Values of Reference (Rif. 102-16) Consistently with our Mission Palladio Group has always invested in cutting-edge technologies and equipment, often developed in preview thanks to the close relationship established with customers and suppliers. All this has contributed and contributes to provide measurable added value in terms of logistics, productivity and lead time. The parameters within which our ethical conduct is positioned are represented by our values and the contents of the Code of Ethics. In fact, Palladio Group pursues its economic objectives by giving priority to social factors, health and safety and the defence of the environment in the awareness that our entrepreneurial action must be in line with the interests of society. Our commitment to Ethics, Social Responsibility and respect for the 10 principles of U.N. Global Compact, is expressed in a set of documents necessary to define the behaviour of each participant in the Organization, i.e.:  Ethic code  Chart of Values  Ethical Trading Initiative Code (ETI)  Chart of Principles for Environmental Sustainability  Sustainability Report  Supplier Code of Conduct page 18 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 3.3 The Ethic Code (Rif. 102-17) The Code of Ethics contains the values and principles that inspire and characterize the actions of Palladio Group in relations with its Stakeholders. The Code of Ethics has been subject to some specific changes to adapt to the changes that have occurred in legislation and was approved by the Palladio Group spa Executive Committee on May 25, 2017. The Code is an integral part of the employment relationship: all employees commit themselves to behave in line with the code itself. Consequently, Palladio Group undertakes to monitor compliance with the provisions of its Code of Ethics by all its Employees and Collaborators working on its behalf. Palladio Group, also exercising its control over the companies with which it establishes collaborations for work and / or service, also undertakes not to be complicit in the abuse of human rights. It has also been formally requested to the Group's suppliers of good and services to comply with our Code of Ethics and the Social Responsibility Policy” by signing the Supplier Code of Conduct , in order to respect the same ethical principles as Palladio group. The Code of Ethics and the Social Responsibility Policy can be downloaded from our website http://www.palladiogroup.com and are available in the languages of the countries where Palladio Group is present. The Code of Ethics has been delivered to all employees, signed by each one, and made available on the company intranet site. Training, in compliance with the Code of Ethics’ provisions, was given to all our employees during the year 2017 on the occasion of the new issue of the Code of Ethics. For Palladio Group there is no tolerance for corruption. The value that drives our choices is based on meritocracy and ethics, and we reward our employees only on this basis. This principle is also taken into account in the management of our Customers, Suppliers and any Authority with which Palladio Group has relations. Consistently with our Code of Ethics, it is possible to implement the Whistle-blowing procedure in order to report any unethical or illegal behaviour. The Whistle-blowing procedure can be activated both from the inside and from the outside through the exchange and communication platforms with our Stakeholders. In the course of 2017 there have been no reports to the Ethics Committee. In 2017 no reports were recorded to the Ethics Committee. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 19 of 101 GOVERNANCE page 20 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS 4. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES (Rif. 102-45/46) Palladio Group is part of the Holding Group Marchi, according to the structure shown in the following organizational chart. With the view of reporting homogeneity, in relation to the type of materials produced in the various plants of the Group, it has been determined that the scope of the reporting will be limited to the plant operating in the Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic sectors and producing primary and secondary packaging materials, such as: Palladio Group spa: plants in Dueville-Vicenza (Italia), Thiene-Vicenza (Italia), Pontedera-Pisa (Italia) Palladio East doo: plant in Vršac-Vojvodina (Serbia) Palladio Ireland ltd: plant in Tullamore-County Offaly (Ireland) Note: the Palladio Obninsk (Russia) plant has not been included in the perimeter as it is not yet fully operational. Pharma Partners is not included in the reporting scope as it operates in a different area. Therefore, when the report will quote Palladio Group or the Group, all the plants above shall be considered. HOLDING GRUPPO MARCHI SPA PALLADIO GROUP SPA Plants :Dueville, Thiene, Pontedera BURGO GROUP SPA (Italia) PALLADIO EAST DOO Vrsac Plant (Serbia) PALLADIO IRELAND LTD Tullamore Plant (Irlanda) PALLADIO OBNINSK LLC Obninsk Plant (Russia) PHARMA PARTNERS SRL Prato (Italia) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 21 of 101 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS 4.1 Identification and framework of each material aspect (Rif. 102-47/48/49 – 103-1) The Palladio Group's STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 REPOR management of the IDENTIFIC Sustainability VALIDATI T Materiality Completeness environmental, economic and Context social material aspects Stakeholder Inclusiveness complies with the GRI Sustainability Reporting STEP 4 Standards, These, in order to REVIEW Sustainability Context Stakeholder Inclusiveness determine the material aspects and their relevant perimeters, outline a process divided into the following four stages: 1. Identification 2. Prioritization 3. Validation 4. Review As shown in the picture, each of the four phases covers specific • The set of topics elements of the process • The performances contained and • Identification which aspects can be • Involvement of the subjects presented in the budget must give a treated in the defining what is relevant and clear idea of the report must be defined Materials interested in a such as to reflect where it is relevant “. Stakeholder Inclusiveness. through the significant way and integration of the organization in the the entire parameters: that will reasonably context of sustainability • Significance influence the ability performance and Sustainability Context considering the of the same sustainable development must allow strength of the organization to respecting the stakeholders to economic, implement their environmental and evaluate it. environmental and own strategies and social impact; achieve their social limits and demands expressed In order to ensure the quality of goals , during the Completeness • Degree of influence at sectoral, local, on the assessments whole phase of the regional and Materiality and decisions of the report stakeholders the information and the international levels. compliance to the principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, timeliness, comparability and during the first phase of identification, the potential material aspects were selected through the analysis of different sources: Corporate Documents and Policies, Code of Ethics, Consultation with various Stakeholders, Standards, GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. During the second phase of the evaluation of the priorities, the material aspects identified in the previous phase were examined, giving priority to the individual economic, environmental and social issues of the organization both on the basis of the impacts for the Group and on the basis of stakeholder interest, Including external (and / or internal) boundaries in which the major significant impacts may occur page 22 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS This universally recognized reporting technique use specific indicators, depending on the levels of application, bringing the company to:  Perform a complete monitoring of its performance.  Draw up a final balance of the main environmental impacts of the Group ‘s production activities.  Communicate the progress in relation of the UN Global Compact Principles.  Ensure that a measurable progress has been achieved. In the third phase Validation the Palladio Group’s various department managers, according to their roles and tasks across the Group were involved in the activities and they have been centrally coordinated by the Quality and Sustainability department manager. The results of the Validation activities were then finally approved by the Executive Committee of Palladio Group S.p.A. During the fourth and final review phase, which takes place after the publication of the report, the organization focuses on the identified Relevant Aspects considering the Stakeholders' feedback in order to identify new Aspects that could be examined in the next Sustainability Report. Based on the various consultations, assessments and observations made in the first phase, the Materials Aspects have been identified and are listed below, according to the following categories: Environmental Economic Social In order to identify the potentially materials aspects, the following elements of Palladio Group S.p.A. were taken into consideration: Environmental aspects most significant for Palladio Group S.p.A., according to the Environmental Management System. Economic aspects that best meet the needs of an increasingly competitive market. Most significant Social aspects according to: the Company Policy and in respect of health and safety at work the Occupational Health and Safety Management System and the binding laws. the Code of Ethics of Palladio Group and in compliance with fundamental human rights, as established by the International Conventions on the subject Compliance aspects to international standards related to the product in relation to the relationship with the consumer. The application of the identification and prioritization phases, according to the objective methodology indicated above, has allowed the determination of the material aspects and boundaries) which are shown in the table in Annex 1 and in the following matrix. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 23 of 101 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS The reporting data refer to the last three years (2015, 2016, 2017) and are indicated for each individual production plant and for the whole Group. Some data may have been revised, if compared with previous years, due to changes in the coefficients, basic errors and homogeneity in the reporting, in order to allow comparisons without distortions The table (Annex 2) shows the coefficients used for the environmental calculations, during the three years During the reporting period there were no significant changes regarding the scope, reporting limits or measurement methods. If, in some case, a new method of measurement has been used, same will be highlighted under the relevant indicator. It should be noted that during 2017 there were several significant changes regarding the introduction of new machines, the size of the buildings and the expansion of services that led to an increase in the consumption of energy resources. page 24 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER 5. STAKEHOLDERS (Ref. 102-40/42/43/44) Palladio Group achieved its success on the domestic and international markets because it kept in mind that its activities are directed primarily to Stakeholders, therefore its development was built prioritising the satisfaction of the needs of all stakeholders, including rights as defined by national laws and applicable international standards. The drafting and publication of the Sustainability Report and other report on the assessment of our Corporate Social Responsibility (such as Ecovadis e Carbon Disclosure Project) was the first step in sharing and disclosing that has led us to focus on important aspects on which our efforts must be addressed as response to our stakeholders' needs and expectations. In fact, our Sustainability Principles and Values are the result of both material subjects arising from the involvement of the various functions and the results of various forms of dialogue and discussion with the Group Stakeholders During the year 2017, there were no criticalities emerged from the activities of stakeholder engagement. Stakeholders are those bodies who have interests in place with our business such as: The Shareholders, The Employees The Collaborators, The Customers, The Suppliers, The Business Partners We also consider Stakeholders all those individuals or groups, as well as the Organizations and Institutions that represent them, whose interests are influenced by the direct and indirect effects of the activities of Palladio Group, in particular, the local communities in which we operate, environmental associations, future generations. 5.1 Initiatives of communication and dialogue with stakeholders The sustainability approach used, in order to ensure the achievement of the objectives, the quality of information and the adequacy of the presentation of the principles towards stakeholders is to use the principle of inclusiveness and materiality. Palladio Group wanted to encourage information and relationships with the various stakeholders by promoting transversal initiatives involving different stakeholders through integrated external and internal communication platforms that stakeholders can use without any particular constraints, such as: • Website (www.palladiogroup.com) • Intranet • E-mail (info@palladiogroup.com) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 25 of 101 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER • Facebook (www.facebook.com/pages/Amici-di-Palladiogroup) • LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com/company/palladiogroup) • Yammer (www.yammer.com/palladiogroup.com) • Vimeo(vimeo.com/user44390006) It is our intention to use these media more and more, in particular social networks, as dynamic platforms where we can intercept any requests, have more ways of sharing, understand the new requirements, needs and duties. For the preparation of this report, specific groups of internal stakeholders were involved. 5.2 Palladio Group News (The company magazine) Since 2014, our company newspaper has been restored with the main purpose of telling everything about the company starting from the internal organization, going to the main events, up to the news on the products, but also with the very important goal of favouring and increasing the sense of belonging of the employees, the spirit of collaboration and teamwork, improving the climate in the company. With this additional communication tool, we want to stimulate the participation and involvement of employees, keeping them updated about the activities that are being carried out and promoting the circulation of information between the various departments. The structure of the publication includes an editorial signed by the CEO, the focus on a relevant topic or of particular interest for the company, then various columns that tell the news from our operational offices, then some pages dedicated to events, to business life and to our people. page 26 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER 5.3 Transparency and sharing with Stakeholders For the second consecutive year, Palladio Group participated in the CDP Climate Change Report, which measures, releases and shares environmental information. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a nonprofit organization that offers companies and cities a system to measure, detect, manage and share information on climate change globally. Every year the biggest companies are invited to fill out a very detailed questionnaire, which shows their commitment and the policies adopted towards this topic. Palladio Group for the sixth consecutive year has subjected its CSR by Ecovadis’ evaluation obtaining once again the medal “Gold Label” (level advanced). EcoVadis provides the leading solution for monitoring sustainability in global supply chains. Using innovative technologies and CSR skills, EcoVadis aims to help buyers and suppliers to adopt more sustainable practices. The methodology is based on sustainable development standards: Global Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000. Palladio East was evaluated for the third time by Sedex according to Smeta. Sedex it is a non-profit organization committed to increasing the spread of ethical principles along global supply chains and is the largest platform in Europe that collects and processes data on the ethical behaviour of supply chains. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 27 of 101 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER 5.4 Stakeholder engagement Today I'm in the company too In July, as part of a day dedicated to employees and families, we requested the collaboration of Legambiente to involve children in educational activities dedicated to solar and windv power. With the Ecoquiz on Renewable Energies and the relay race of the mini-generators, we played and discussed with the children of a future based on clean energy. Clean up the world 2017 As confirmation of our environmental commitment and consistently with the path taken in the previous years, also in 2017, we participated to “Clean Up the World initiative promoted by Legambiente The event, linked to Clean Up the World , is a global environmental campaign held in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP). Legambiente and Palladio East, with the participation of the school children from the Municipality of Vršac, on the day of November 24th carried out a full cleaning of the city park (Gradski Park) di Vršac (Serbia). International Happiness Day page 28 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER Ricicloaperto “Open recycling” For over 15 years, Palladio has joined the national initiative of the paper industry COMIECO (the Italian consortium for the recovery and recycling of packaging based on cellulose) called Ricicloaperto because it is aware of its importance and of the action of ecological education and awareness of future generations. Ricicloaperto is a major communication campaign on waste sorting and recycling of paper and cardboard, to raise awareness and show “live” the different phases of the cycle of recycling and educate the young generations to a conscious use of resources. The aim is to discover the industrial value of recycling, the professionalism and the technology of the sector and to show how recycled paper and cardboard are actually being recycled, to reassure citizens about the usefulness of their daily efforts in making recycling. Our sites, annually, open the doors for two days in order to accommodate groups of children and adults that illustrate the processes and methods of recycling. On April 26 and 27, eight classes from different primary and secondary schools in the province visited our factories in Dueville and Pontedera to study on what principles paper recycling is based and how it is used in a paper processing company for the production of packaging. The enthusiasm shown by the youngsters during the event was remarkable, both for the teachings offered by Comieco in relation to good practices for waste management and for the opportunity to visit a real production facility, discovering its operation and daily management. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 29 of 101 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER 5.5 Customers (Rif. 103-2/3) Customer care is of strategic importance for the companies. This concept is widespread at all levels of the organization so that there is awareness of having to pay due attention to the requests and expectations of the customer whose satisfaction is periodically verified through constant meetings and questionnaires. For Palladio Group, high quality standards mean meeting the needs of customers in terms of functionality, reliability and safety. The Quality Management System, in line with the applicable requirements of the GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) required by our customers, is responsible for ensuring compliance with the procedures while promoting a culture of quality throughout the company through the involvement of all the employees. 5.6 La Customer’s satisfaction The customer satisfaction has a key role in the strategic vision of the Palladio Group that is committed to developing its own products and services according to a customer-driven approach to business. The ability to constantly be able to respond to the customer’s actual needs and expectations constitutes a prerequisite for creating and maintaining the confidence needed for longlasting relationships. To know the needs and the degree of satisfaction with products and services provided, we organise periodically numerous initiatives of dialogue with customers. The management of customer relationships and the ability to provide specific services plays a key role for the implementation of business strategies. The Group therefore it prepares for sales force specific training courses, weekly meetings and provides appropriate support and behavioural guidelines for carrying out the activity. Contractual relationships and communications with customers are based on principles of fairness and honesty, professionalism, transparency and cooperation in the search for the best solutions to their needs. Over the years, our offer has been enriched and diversified, offering the full range of products and services to cover a variety of solutions for the pharmaceutical and cosmetic packaging. By investing in new technologies, research and development, and introducing ourselves to the customers as reliable partners it has been possible to achieve all these results, and we managed to be closer to our customers and focused on their satisfaction while still guaranteeing the compatible use and protection of natural and human resources. page 30 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER Relationships with our clients are managed through a team of commercial accounts divided by geographical areas operating as specialised consultants. Alongside the commercial account team, we have also a Marketing and Innovation function which, through various communication channels (meetings at the offices, fairs, website) allows us to offer a specialized consultancy service to understand the client's needs and develop solutions to -hoc according to the different needs of the market. The customer service function has also been strengthened in order to continue offering an accurate, reliable and timely service to our customers. Customer satisfaction analyses are also carried out to measure the satisfaction of our customers and receive valuable suggestions from them to improve products and services. During 2016, the company Cerved supported us in order to detect customer satisfaction. This survey resulted in a total Customer Satisfaction Index of 97.3 points / 100. Product quality, wide range and preparation of the technical sales office are elements of excellence in the offer. 5.7 Customer’s health and safety (Rif. 416-1) In general terms, due to the nature of products delivered by the Palladio Group ‘s companies, there is not a significant risks to customers in terms of health and safety. Nevertheless, we have decided to consider the possible repercussions on the community; therefore, we have catalogued the life cycle of our product, and analysing and evaluating all aspects, in order to improve its manufacturing. Labelling is not required for the type of product provided. The Group shall provide appropriate documentation to its customers in relation to each batch produced through appropriate statements issued by the Quality Office in which is stated the type of raw material used for the production In addition to the above, although we did not have direct contact with the end user, we have offered innovative solutions to our customers, such as the PhutureMed program. A program conceived with the fundamental goal of creating innovative packaging solutions for the medicine of the future. It is indeed an intelligent packaging system designed to support patients in monitoring and adherence to their prescribed therapy. From this program originated proposals such as: Memo Solution and Phill Solution 5.8 Privacy (Rif. 418-1) The awareness of the importance of properly generating, using and storing the information has led Palladio Group to implement, during the course of 2016, the Information Security Management System in accordance with ISO / IEC 27001. Adherence to this voluntary standard has allowed us to pursue and maintain over time a level of confidentiality, integrity and availability of information complying with the requirements established by: a) Legislation in force (in particular protection of privacy and intellectual property); b) Customer Contractual Requirements; c) Requirements of other stakeholders; d) Any additional requirement independently set by Palladio Group. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 31 of 101 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDER c) Any additional requirements independently set by Palladio Group. page 32 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUPPLIERS 6 PROCUREMENT OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES (Rif. 103-2/3, 102-9/10, 204-1, 301-1/2/3, 308-1, 412-3, 414-1/2) Palladio Group works on a contract basis, therefore it is the customer to specify the type of raw material and supplier to be used and we must strictly comply with these requests, this limits our possibility to purchase recycled raw materials. Being unable to act directly on the finished product, we promote the concept of sustainable consumption with our Customers through initiatives aimed to raise the customer’s awareness to use recycled cardboard or to reduce the board grammage, thus giving a contribution to: A positive effect on the environment A reduction of cardboard waste An economic benefit for the customer A rationalisation of the supplier's stock Greater flexibility in the orders production. Our initiatives have still originated positive results. In fact, also in 2017 the request for use of recycled material by our customers was over 25%. 25.65% use of recycled materials Our company is subjected to the market demand with regard to the requirements of our customers required product but not with regard to the requirements of the outer boxes used for packing the supplied products. As a result of this we have adopted a policy of using packaging produced from recycled cardboard for packing the products sold. Unfortunately, due to the criteria adopted by the pharmaceutical industry in accordance with the FDA (Food & Drug Administration) regulations, such packaging cannot be returned. The use of such packaging it is only allowed once to avoid cross-contamination issues. 66.89% used products sent for recycling SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 33 of 101 SUPPLIERS Our activities, for the type of material used and in relation to the life cycle of the product, provide for a recycling system that stands at very high percentages. All the materials used in production, which can be reused or recycled at the end of their life cycle, are appropriately separated and collected for the purpose of their following treatment. 6.1 Sustainable procurement of forest-based products In October 2010, the European Union adopted a regulation to prevent illegal timber trade in Europe. Since March 3, 2013, the law (EU) 995/2010, better known as EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) have come into force; this applies to wood and to all products originated from it, including paper. “For companies that introduce in Europe products made from wood fibres, the EU Timber Regulation prohibits the placing and trade of illegal products and requires the Regulation (EUTR) adoption of a system of internal “Due Diligence”. Palladio Group, through compliance with PEFC and FSC certifications, purchase only certified raw materials and / or materials not originating from controversial sources. Our sourcing policy is to guarantee the origin and legality of wood products (paper and cardboard) in our chain of custody, paying particular attention to suppliers of forest raw materials. Hence, detailed information is gathered to assess legality, traceability, third-party certification status, global policy compliance, and compliance with EUTR 995/2010 “Timber Regulation” and with Due Diligence System. In 2017, all Palladio Group’s suppliers of forest based raw material have confirmed the origin of the material and they all hold a valid certification. Therefore, we can say that also in the year 2017 100% of the raw materials used from wood (paper and board) come from controlled resources. 100% of the raw materials used from wood (paper and board) come from controlled resources 6.2 Suppliers The Group’s suppliers operate in different sectors including: raw materials, ancillary materials for the production of pharmaceutical packaging such as inks and varnishes, services (in particular third parties). From a geographical point of view, The Group favours domestic suppliers and, in particular, companies that can provide goods and / or services in the markets in which the Palladio group plants operate. page 34 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUPPLIERS The raw material used for production is defined by the customer, and generally produced / manufactured by multinational paper mills. 6.3 Control of supplier sustainability requirements Palladio Group refuses to be an accomplice, even indirectly, in the abuse of human rights. For this reason, the organisation exercises its control over companies with which establish collaborations for work performance and / or service. Our procedure of selection and qualification of suppliers, since 2016, provides that these are aware and share the principles and values set out in our Code of Ethics and that comply with the following standards: Safety and health in the workplace, Working conditions, Freedom association and not retaliation, forced and compulsory Labour, child Labour, non-discrimination, compliance with environmental legislation, Abuse of office and corruption. During the reference year, the twenty-six (26) new suppliers included in the vendor list were selected and qualified on the basis of social and environmental criteria and impacts on the company. We have also begun to consolidate the sustainability management monitoring activity by previously qualified suppliers. This activity will continue over In the selection of Suppliers we value the Quality, the next few years so that the evaluation Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility is extended to all our suppliers. Management Systems Through this activity we intend to encourage our Suppliers to understand and respect our Code of Conduct to allow, through compliance with the criteria set forth in it, the continuation of the Supply relationships according to clear and transparent criteria. It is in fact our intention to favour not only a responsible attitude towards Palladio Group, but also a profound commitment to respect the same issues within the supplier's company. In terms of health & safety in the workplace we ask the supplier/service provider to have full knowledge of local regulations on this subject and to follow the indications as per documentation provided which must be signed for acceptance by the same (DUVRI). We require, as per our procedures, that all the suppliers (contractors), selected to carry out work within our premises, and must demonstrate to be in possession of documentation certifying compliance with legislative and contractual obligations towards their employees. They also have to be in compliance with the corporate’s social responsibility and the good practice standards lay down by the Environmental and health & safety management system of Palladio Group. Any negative environmental impacts and possible complaints related to those impacts are handled through the documented nonconformity management. During the reporting period, no contracts were rejected, no performance conditions were imposed, and in any case no action was taken as a result of the assessment of respect for human rights and practices of work with major suppliers, contractors and other business partners. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 35 of 101 SUPPLIERS 6.4 Our commitment on the Conflict Minerals issue In July 2010, the US Congress brought as part of human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighbouring countries (collectively, the DRC”) the mining and trading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold ( minerals coming from conflict areas ). The president of the United States of America has approved a new regulation, called Dodd-Frank Act, which requires companies, American or otherwise, to make public the possible use of the so-called Conflict Minerals mined in the mines of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and related countries. For all the above, having signed the commitment to monitor human rights in our supply chain and in compliance with the requests of some customers, in 2015, we started by launching a survey with some of our suppliers to discuss the topic conflict minerals And receive confirmation that materials extracted from the conflict zones are not used in the respective production processes. 6.5 Focus on Biodiversity (Rif. 304-1/2/3/4) One of the environmental factors on which Palladio Group puts focuses is biodiversity despite all the Group's plants are located in technological / industrial areas, away from protected areas and areas of high biodiversity or areas where the Species listed in the red UINC list have their habitat. The above is done through the adherence to Forest Management Systems such as the FSC and PEFC Custodies chains to support the protection of forests and their fauna and in order to contrast the illegal trading in the wood sector; buying only forest products that come exclusively from controlled sources. In relation to the prevalence of the raw material used which consists of paper and cardboard and the awareness of the role that forests play for the protection of the global environment and the maintenance and enrichment of biodiversity, the Group favours the purchase of raw materials of origin forests that come from forests managed in a sustainable manner from an environmental, social and economic point of view, choosing and directing our Suppliers, which we select and monitor in a documented way, towards a full ecological and social responsibility aimed at safeguarding and conserving the planet's forest biodiversity. 6.6 Indigenous population’s Rights (Rif. 411-1) In Palladio Group there were no incidents involving the rights of the communities in which it operates. We do not operate in countries where there are indigenous communities. As Confirmation of our adhesion to the principle of non-complicity in abuse of human rights, we are also committed through obtaining FSC certification, to buy our raw material in accordance with the principles promoted by the Organisation, including the recognition and protection of rights of indigenous peoples and other minorities forest-dependent (such as local communities. page 36 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC TARGETS AND RESULTS 7. MAIN STRATEGIC TARGETS AND RESULTS Minimize any waste of water resources Target: maximum consumption per capita 15m3 per year During 2017 8.436 m3 of water have been consumed, with a per capita consumption of 13.18 m3. Reduction of specific CO2 emissions Target: 15% by 2018 20% by 2020 The agreements signed in 2017 for the purchase of energy produced exclusively through renewable sources, led to a reduction in CO2 emissions, at Group level, of 11.94%. Sustainable supply of forest products Annual target: 100% 100% of raw materials from forest products come from sustainable sources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 37 of 101 STRATEGIC TARGETS AND RESULTS To consolidate a culture of safety, through training and continuous prevention Target to aim for: zero accidents The specific training hours on workplace safety in 2016 (4,238) and in 2017 (2,858) resulted in a reduction in the injury severity index of 68.24% and in the accident frequency index of 31.79%. 100% of the new suppliers included in the vendor list (26 in 2017) were selected and qualified on the basis of social and environmental criteria and impacts on the company The Group's Corporate Social Responsibility commitments have been emphasized through the issuing of a specific Policy that has gone to support the Ethic Code and the Charter of Values Through specific training for skills development and performance evaluation we have enhanced and developed the know-how of human resources, in line with the Company's strategy page 38 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 8. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT (Ref. 103-2/3, 201-1, 203-1/2) In recent years Palladio Group has reorganised its structure to better meet the needs of an increasingly competitive market by making many investments aimed to make our production more efficient and to improve the organisation by introducing innovative concepts such as the lean thinking. In addition to the closure of important projects we have also increased our services to customers, strengthening our leadership in the market in which we operate. In addition to strengthening our plant in Serbia, we completed the construction of a further facility in Russia, together with a foreign partner. This project follows the established strategy with our other foreign plants to produce directly in the countries where the market is expected to grow allowing an expansion of our multinational. We also support projects in favour of the community such as social, cultural and artistic activities which are fundamental values for civil society, contributing to the improvement of the quality of life of the local communities in which we operate. Donations, financial contributions and pro bono activities were carried out during the year of reference in relation to a preliminary analysis on the needs of local communities or on the general public interest. In addition to the various activities undertaken by the Group, as every year Palladio Group’s employees, together with the company, have contributed to support, through the proceeds of the annual lottery, various associations of humanitarian and social nature of their own choice. Palladio Group’s Investments in the community 2017: € 55.601 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 39 of 101 RESPONSABILITÀ ECONOMICA 8.1 Sustainable development (201-2/3) As we are aware of the importance of ensuring a sustainable development of our activities and a more efficient use of energy and materials, Palladio Group pursues continuous improvement of its environmental performance and energy, applying best practices which will improve the environmental management in a cost-effective way. To achieve these goals, the Company adopted a management model based on the preventive analysis of the environmental impacts of its activities and the constant monitoring of consumption and waste and on the evaluation by third parties (Ecovadis) of the performance of its CSR. Palladio riceives the EcoVadis Gold rating For the sixth year in a row Palladio Group has been awarded of the “Gold” Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by EcoVadis, one of the main evaluators of global supply chains. Palladio, receiving a total score of 75, was placed among the companies with the higher rating out of the 40,000 companies analysed by the organization that act proactively and responsibly in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility. This certification, as well as being a reward for our vision and efforts in the field of CSR, is also an aid to our customers to achieve their sustainability and environmental goals. This approach has allowed us to identify the areas which need our intervention to achieve an environmental improvement; we acted in this direction with targeted activities that led to progressive reductions in CO2 emissions. To promote the company's sustainability culture, awareness-raising initiatives were also promoted to reduce energy consumption and facilitate the waste recycling at the Palladio Group plants. On this regard, in 2017, costs for environmental management and protection amounted to over € 236,000, these were mainly invested in the installation of cleaner and more efficient technologies, training courses for staff directly involved in environmental management, external services, Purchases of green products, waste disposal. Palladio Group is aware of the risks due to physical transformations in relation to climate change but, at present, we believe that will not affect the operations of its plants and business decisions in the medium and long term. The company has, however, signed insurance contracts to protect itself in case of unexpected weather events and has put into procedures a Business Continuity and a Disaster Recovery plan to ensure continuity of its activities. page 40 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 8.2 Palladio’s Pensioners Palladio Group, totally in line with the regulations in force, provides a pension plan to its employees as provided by the countries where it operates. Palladio Group assists its employees in the transition from employment to retirement, which sometimes causes problems. In the last few years it also created the “Palladio Pensioners Group to give the opportunity to the retired employees to meet and, together refresh the binding of a long working life spent within the company. In this context, the company has taken charge of organising tours, plant visits, theatre performances and other initiatives to involve former colleagues. The same are increasingly called to participate in the exchange of Christmas greetings and to the delivery of the Christmas hampers, along with all the staff still in the force. Also this year, for our retirees and their families, it has been organized: a convivial meeting with the company management in April 2017 the usual annual free trip that this year consisted in a visit to the city of Trieste and to the Miramare castle. 8.3 Presence on the market (Ref. 202-1/2) The most important operational sites (based on the high number of employees) are located in Italy and Serbia. The salary of new employees in all locations of the group is on average higher than the minimum wage required by law without any distinction between genres and backgrounds. Palladio Group doesn’t have a specific policy regarding the global recruitment of staff residing in the vicinity of the plants; recruitment practices however priority is given to people living in the vicinity where the activity takes place. Generally speaking the managers and the employees of both the foreign subsidiaries and the various Italian plants have their habitual residence nearby the relevant local communities. Senior managers are the top-level functions and the local community is intended as the country in which the plant operates. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 41 of 101 RESPONSABILITÀ ECONOMICA page 42 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY (Ref. 103-2/3) In relation to our activities, products and services we identify our direct and indirect environmental aspects and the related impact factors. According to their significance we determine the most important ones, this is in order to keep them under control and prevent any risk for the environment. Our Register of Impact Factors” provides an overview of the most significant activities. In this context, the applicable legal requirements and other requirements subscribed by the Organisation are taken into account in the definition, implementation and maintenance of the Environmental Management System. Specific targets of improvement are defined on an annual basis in order to improve our performance and reduce consumption resulting from any waste. Targets that over the years have brought significant benefits as it emerges from the data reported in this section. Several studies, aimed to define and modify the procedural methodology and the structural measures, have led to a reduction in consumption resulting from waste. The implementation of these interventions, such as: home automation management of air conditioning, lights and various utilities supplying the production, use of LED lights, have resulted in significant energy efficiencies and reductions in energy requirements. Another important step in the policy of reducing waste is the management of waste arising from our raw material (paper and cardboard). Most of this material is in fact handled as a by-product. This material is therefore collected to be reused or recycled at the end of its life cycle. The organisation, in order to improve the efficiency in the use of materials and resources, also separates the various packaging materials (such as wooden pallets, some types of plastic, iron, etc.) in order to help improve efficiency in the use of materials and resources. Since 2009 Palladio Group has analysed its LCI monitoring their emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) resulting in particular from: Consumption of natural gas (direct emissions of greenhouse gases) Consumption of electricity (indirect emissions of greenhouse gases) Verification of indirect impacts arising from our own production activities: Consumption paper raw materials Transport resulting from the purchase of paper raw materials Transport resulting from the sale of finished products. Following the evaluation of environmental impacts (LCIA), in relation to the annual production, our consumptions were monitored to intervene significantly by establishing targets aimed to: reduce natural resources waste reduce our contribution to Global Warming. The extent of reduction was determined through the evaluation of the Carbon Foot Print for the years taken as reference. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 43 of 101 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.1 Emissions (Ref. 305-1/2/3/4/5) Palladio Group does not have significant emissions in the atmosphere or emissions for which the competent authorities have prescribed monitoring, so the emissions of ozone depleting substances are not measured. In any case the following environmental aspects have been identified and taken into account: Scope 1) Emissions of greenhouse gases due to the combustion of natural gas and diesel fuel in the plants for premises heating (direct and controllable emissions); For each plant, the consumption of natural gas and diesel (invoices) for the last three years has been used. Scope 2) Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of electricity in the plants (indirect emissions); The energy consumption data (invoices), issued the last three years, have been used. In 2016, we introduced the Scope 2 emission calculation methodology in line with the new requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. In consequence of this the Scope 2 emissions are accounted in two different ways respectively called location-based method and a market-based method; the emission factors used for the two methods are shown in the table in the Annex 2. For the Market based methodology the following emission factors were used, where available, in the following order of preference: Certificate of Guarantee of Origin (Italy) Specific emission factor made available by the supplier (Ireland) Residual mix (Ireland) Emission factor used in the Location based methodology (Serbia) Scope 3) Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of raw materials incoming to the production cycle and from the transportation of raw materials and finished products (other indirect emissions); The data for the last three years containing the quantities of raw materials incoming to each plant have been used. In detail, there are the following incoming materials: Cardboard boxes for processing in the line; Paper for leaflets in line processes; Self-adhesive Labels for stickers production; Inbound Travel (for the supply of raw materials of paper and cardboard) and output (for delivery of finished products) from all plants of the Group. _____________________________ Scope1 refers to direct greenhouse gas emissions and absorption, Scope 2 is reported to greenhouse gas indirect emissions associated with the use of energy, Scope 3 is other indirect emissions; For further details refer to the definitions of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) page 44 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.2 Carbon Footprint In recent years, thanks to a series of activities aimed to define and modify the procedural methods and the structural intervention that would allow a reduction in consumption resulting from any energy waste, we avoided to increase the Greenhouse Gas emission. The above despite the enlargements of the plants, the implementation of additional production lines, the production differentiation and the increase of the business that have led to an increase in energy consumption. The strategic targets on greenhouse gas emissions have been determined as the sum of Scope 1 emissions and Scope 2 emissions Market Based (ref. CDP Climate Change CC3.1b). As for Scope 2, the agreements signed in 2017 concerning the purchase of energy produced exclusively through renewable sources, led to a reduction in CO2 emissions, at Group level of about 12% (-54.24% in relation to the electricity consumption). -11,94% CO2 In addition to the above, we also constantly monitor the indirect impacts arising from our productive activity such as: Consumption of paper raw materials Transport resulting from the purchase of paper raw materials Transport deriving from the sale of finished products. Thanks to the adoption of Lean Manufacturing, we were able to reduce the absolute environmental impact of the Group, managing to limit the increase of CO2 associated with an increased production, to reach the set targets In fact, in order to mitigate the environmental impacts associated with the transport of products, the Organization constantly ensures the optimization of outbound and inbound journeys. The above through the procurement and subsequent production of the finished product in the factories located closest to the customer to whom the material is delivered. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 45 of 101 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY We also account for the different types of emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3) transforming them even in an economic value. To do so we use the latest available carbon price value obtained from the latest issue of the Report of Word Bank Group State and Trends of Carbon Pricing. Based on this information was considered the value below the carbon price in different countries: Ireland: 24$ / ton (Carbon Taxation mechanism Ireland) Italy: 6$ / ton (EU ETS) Serbia: 6$ / ton (EU ETS) The company has identified a specific carbon price indicator as a ratio between the economic value and carbon revenues. This indicator is included in the monitored company key indicators. page 46 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.3 Energy (Ref. 302-1/3/4/5) Currently Palladio Group does not produce energy, this is only purchased. The energy consumption for heating production floors and offices during winter time is exclusively attributable by the use of natural gas (Italian plants and plant Serbia) or oil fuel (Irish plant)). The consumption of electrical energy is significant as it has the greater environmental impact. This type of consumption derives from both the normal production and the use of compressors for air conditioning Purchase of electricity from renewable sources In line with our Sustainability Policies, in January 2017, Palladio Group signed an agreement for the purchase of energy produced exclusively through renewable energy plants to cover the electricity needs of all Italian plants. Our plant located in green Ireland has said goodbye to fossil fuels since July 1 starting to use only energy from renewable sources. These agreements have made it possible to reduce the CO2 emissions associated with our activities by around 12%. the energy is covered by a product brand BeECO absolutely pure , this guarantees its origin. Specific interventions have enabled a reduction in consumption at comparative level (KPI). This reduction was achieved through a series of specific procedural and structural interventions, or through acts to sensitize all employees to for greater awareness. The structural interventions targeted a modernization of the production equipment such as the replacement of bulbs neon lamps with high energy efficiency (LED), the use of domotic (home automation) equipment for the management of services subservient to the production and to air-conditioning the building and the replacement of the heating systems with high efficiency boilers In 2017, agreements were signed regarding the purchase of energy produced exclusively through renewable sources for Italian plants and for the Irish plant. This choice is positively reflected in the significant reduction in emissions associated with electricity consumption calculated according to the Market Based methodology of the Guideline Scope 2 of the GHG protocol. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 47 of 101 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.4 Waste (Ref. 306-2/3/4) Palladio Group follows a clear strategy for waste management. The objective is to prevent and reduce the amount of waste so that the global environmental impact related to the waste remains minimal. Palladio Group is just a waste producer, not a dealer. All waste is collected from our premises and delivered to local authorized waste disposal companies where it will be disposed of and/or recycled. No significant waste spills were recorded during the three-year period. 9.5 Drains (Ref. 306-1/5) The production cycle does not include drains of water; the only planned discharges are those resulting from the use of sanitation and therefore similar to domestic sewage. Our offices and manufacturing plants in are located in technological / industrial areas, away from protected areas and areas of high biodiversity or areas where the Species listed in the red UINC list, which includes all the 197 Italian Policy Species (species included in the annexes of Directive 92/43 / EEC Habitat and of the Berne Convention, both ratified by the Italian Government and in fact constituting national laws), have their habitat. For this reason, there are no measurements in this regard 9.6 Water (Ref. 303-1/2/3) We believe that water is an important resource, and we try to use it sparingly at all sites of the Group. Almost all the water consumed comes from municipal water while about 3% of consumption consists of ground water, used only at the plant in Dueville. The Group’s plants use only enough water not to significantly damage the water sources. This because in all the premises of the Group water is mainly used for sanitary purposes. There are no recycling / reuse methods in place The use of water in the production process is generally limited to the offset printing process for the plates washing. Consequently, its Annual pe capite consumption is also closely linked to the quantity of processed product. consumption To reduce water consumption, flow reducers were installed to the taps 3 in the toilets of our sites, simple devices that mix air with water and 13,18 m double buttons for draining water sanitation so as to minimise the waste of this resource. During the year 2017, 8.436 m3 were consumed with a per capita consumption of 13.18 m3. The expected target was met page 48 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY despite the occurrence of hidden leaks in the Thiene and Pontedera plants. Despite the reduced water impacts on our activities, in 2017, we provided complete information on water problems by compiling the CDP Supply Chain Water questionnaire , dedicated to the management of water resources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 49 of 101 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY page 50 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 10. WORK PRACTICES AND FAIR WORK CONDITIONS (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group supports the implementation of adequate work practices, in both the workplace and in all areas of its sphere of influence. The adoption of appropriate working practices is for us a moral commitment and we are sure that this, together with a strongly widespread business ethic, helps the performance of our company. Palladio Group always places people” first ensuring respect for human rights and denouncing any form of abuse towards their workers. In developing our policy of respect and promotion of human rights, we have taken into consideration the factors that contribute to comply with these principles: The protection of human resources which are the core capital for the company’s development and success. Sharing policies and business objectives The involvement of employees in training activities to increase their skills. The promotion of activities aimed to the integration of personnel. The assessment of our suppliers on their compliance to the requirements and to the principles of ethical work management. Since 2012, we are part of the Global Compact; which joins businesses, UN agencies, work organisations and civil society, encouraging corporate social responsibility through the respect and promotion of nine fundamental principles concerning human rights, work and the environment. They are universally shared principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration of International Labour on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development The letter of intent signed by the CEO highlights our commitment and defines the objectives that Palladio Group follows at group level, with profuse commitment by all, for achieving these principles. Our Code of Ethics together with the Chart of Values emphasises that Palladio Group adopted practices of respect and gratification to its employees, enabling them to co-operate within the company system. This is thanks to all the form of protections guaranteed by the company, such as: The application of the Workers National Contract, applicable to our sector, allows the protection of our employees and the respect of laws relating to protection of labour. The free membership to trade union groups Compliance with the Health and Safety At Work The growth of professionalism to our employees, through targeted training programs, implemented at all levels, providing know-how aimed to prepare them to deal with the customers which will benefit of an exceptional experience with the company. The breakdown of employees by gender, age, minority group Equality of pay between men and women, in accordance with the job categories of membership. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 51 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our personnel, on annual bases, receive a performance bonus to encourage active participation in the work of the company and to reward those that contribute to the excellent results of Palladio Group. Through a reward mechanism, based on meritocracy, employees are guaranteed a super minimum (or equivalent) higher than the legal minimum wage. Also the new employees’ salaries, in all sites of the group and especially in Serbia, are on average higher than the minimum wage required by law. In May 2017, at the Serbian site of Palladio East, an independent audit was carried out by the company Intertek conducted in compliance with SMETA. This is the third audit carried out with the 4 pillar method (the first was carried out in 2014) successfully passed to demonstrate the commitment of Palladio also in its foreign sites. Palladio is close to its collaborators BENEFIT 2017 71.995 € LOANS 2017 ADVANCE ON 38.500 € TFR 2017 108.740 € 10.1 Employment (Rif. 102-8/41, 401-1/2/3, 402-1) Within Palladio Group the Labour National Collective Agreements (working act) are regularly applied and consequently all employees are covered by such contracts. The company recognizes all employees the right to join trade unions as they wish, this does not imply any advantage or disadvantage attitude towards its employees. In this regard, the trade unions have the freedom to carry on their activities without any pressure or interference by the Executive Board. The Human Resources Department is always willing to listen and address any issues of workers seeking satisfactory solutions for complainants while respecting corporate ethics and confidentiality. Our employees through a voting system, which guarantees the confidentiality and anonymity, elect their WSR (Workers Safety Representatives) and TUR (Trade Union Representatives). The temporary employees enjoy the same benefits as those in a permanent contract. Some example of our benefits: page 52 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  Provision of supplementary health care (in total paid by the company)  Adherence to free prevention programs (such as vaccination against flu, tetanus, etc.). The mandatory maternity leave is up to all staff of the Group in accordance with relevant legislation in the different countries. All employees can take parental leave in accordance with local regulations. The Organisation adheres strictly to the laws and, if necessary, favours ancillary requests by granting holidays and leaves. 10.2 Diversity and equality (Ref. 405-1/2) The roles and responsibilities are well defined as reported in documentation relating to the management systems and all our employees are treated with social equality ensuring the same equal opportunities. . The employment’s processing is through the recognition of qualifications of staff, experiences and skills. All this is in order to frame each worker in a befitting manner in order to pay an adequate salary for the work performed, regardless of any discrimination. Managers and employees of the various Italian and foreign subsidiaries are generally residing in the local communities of reference or surrounding areas. In order to promote and encourage their career development, all employees are annually evaluated on the basis of individual or collective (by department) performance. Internal and external training courses allow us to increase the skills of our human resources to facilitate, if necessary, exchanges between departments and operations of mobility within the group. The above support the implementation of the company policy to give priority to internal recruitment. The company, in order to anticipate or reduce any negative impact due to redundancies, makes use of employment agencies for minor activities (e.g. Porterage and warehousing Abilmente, a bridge between school and work Palladio Group supports the project Abilmente born from the synergy Engim Veneto CFP Patronato San Gaetano and the Disability Service of ULSS4, to respond to the emerging need to accompany the delicate transition from secondary school to the working world for children with disabilities and neurodevelopmental disorders. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 53 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 10.3 Industrial Relationships In the event of significant organisational changes, the Group will inform in advance the workers' representatives and trade unions in accordance with what is defined by the European Regulation 2002/14 / EC, implemented by the Member States, in terms of transfers of businesses or plants (fully or partially) to another employer as a result of a legal transfer or merger, the transferor and transferee are required to inform the representatives of the workers concerned in due time , this means that , in Italy, according to the law (art. 47 l. 428/1990), the communication has to be made at least 25 days before. The Italian legislation establishing a general framework of informing and consulting employees is Legislative Decree. N. 25/2007, which implements the European directive mentioned above In the reporting period there were no organizational changes and / or significant changes in corporate operations. 10.4 Health and Safety at work (Rif. 403-1/2/3/4, 412-2) Each manufacturing site of the Group has active formal committees for health and safety. These committees, consisting of representatives of management and workers, have the task of assessing, control, monitor and advise on programs for workplace safety. On average, the percentage of the workforce represented in these committees is up to 75%. In each plant there is at least one person responsible for the calculation and updating of statistics on trends of accidents. These statistics result from the processing of data in accordance with UNI 7249 dated 21/06/2007. The trend of accidents is periodically examined, both per plant and at Group level. The company assesses the risks and identifies the causes of the most serious diseases and disorders (example: work-related stress, manual handling of loads, noise, use of computers) to prevent them the following measures for workers are in place: training, surveys of opinion, reduction of overtime, flexible working hours and interventions on systems, equipment and property assets. These measures aim to maintain the organisation of workplaces always adequate to protect the health and safety of the workers, to create more comfortable working conditions and increase the efficiency and reliability of the man-machine systems. All the measures listed above are reassessed at least annually or at the request of the parties concerned. During 2017, 2 requests for occupational disease where submitted. These are still in the process to be assessed by the relevant government bodies. In Italy, it is enforced the Decree n. 81 -April 9, 2008 Consolidation Act for the protection of health and safety in the workplace to which is added the agreement governing the workers' representation for Safety. Memoranda of understanding or formal agreements with trade unions are in place in the National Collective Labour agreement (CCNL), health and safety issues such as, for example, the participation of workers' representatives to inspections and audits on employees’ health and safety, accident page 54 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY investigations, training, performance targets or commitments on the level of practices to be adopted, periodic inspections and the presence of joint committees for the health and safety. In the foreign plants, in compliance with applicable laws of the country and not as part of formal agreements with trade unions, the same activities as in the Italian sites are implemented, i.e. regular meetings with employees on health and safety at work. In both the Serbian and Irish plants there are Workers' Safety Representatives. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 55 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY page 56 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11. TRAINING AND EDUCATION (Ref. 404-1/2/3, 205-2) We invest in training and opportunities for improvement because we are convinced that they are essential elements for the personal growth of our employees. During the year 2017 our employees attended to 11178 training hours, of which:  2484 hours specific on the safety in the workplace  1564 hours specific courses for skills development  230 hours on the ethic code 11178 Total Training Hours 2858 hours on Safety 1564 hours on 230 hours on Skills Developement Ethic and Anticorruption Training is not only a key element of Palladio Group, but also one of the objectives that we pursue constantly in our daily activities. In order to make our corporate identity explicit, to make us aware of what we do, to be able to properly share and explain our Know-How, in July 2016, Palladio Academy was born, a new way of learning knowledge and Palladio Wiki an encyclopaedia of Palladio Group's knowledge. 11.1 Professional development, careers and human resources’ evaluation As part of its strategy of consolidating careers and enhancing and developing staff, Palladio Group has defined training interventions designed and organized by Human Resources and aimed at increasing and strengthening the skills of internal staff. In order to achieve the standard, a role mapping system was implemented aimed at the effective management of career paths (vertical and horizontal progressions, internal mobility, management of professional development trajectories), in a logic of valorisation and recognition of skills. During 2017, specific courses were launched aimed at developing skills. The courses involved 134 employees for a total of 1564 hours of training. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 57 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Operational mechanisms, aimed at consolidating the organizational model pursued in recent years, have also been launched, such as: Standardization of human resources policy. Common classification systems, position weighting schemes and incentive systems have been defined. The compensation process has been made more transparent thanks to the standardization of levels and job titles within the company. Team development. The development of teams has been further pursued through appropriate courses dedicated to the purpose. The establishment of shared functions at Group level has enabled the elimination of barriers between the various functions facilitating the sharing of knowledge and continuous training. 488/5000 Evaluation of skills and development of human resources. To this end, a process has been developed that, through an assessment of the knowledge of all employees, plans to enhance or increase potential, identify training gaps, develop specific and individual training plans and plan dedicated career paths. The assessment of skills and performance has been divided and optimized according to two different targets: First target, aimed at assessing individual skills and goals for training and development, Second target focuses instead on performance, as a tool specifically designed to guide the professional performance of the individual. DEVELOPMENT OF SKILLS AND PERFORMANCES The self-assessment tools have been added to EVALUATION standard top-down assessment processes with EMPLOY TYOE NUMBER EMPLOYEES PERCENTAGE EMPLOYEES the aim of making employees aware of career EVALUATED EVALUATED White collar men 57 12,72 development. White collar women 24 5,36 This activity, implemented in 2017 in Italian Blue collar men 278 62,05 plants, will also be extended to foreign plants in Blue collar women 75 16,74 Total 434 96,88 the coming years. 11.2 Training on Safety In order to promote a more interactive communication the Company has established the “Safety Circles “which are organised by the head of departments involving the staff. Within these circles, the safety data together with the outcome of any complaint received from the employees are analysed and any improvement opportunity is shared and evaluated To reduce the so-called abnormal behaviour among the employees we have adopted a disciplinary code that defines sanctions in connection with possible violations of company rules on safety. page 58 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11.3 Palladio Academy Palladio Academy is a training project focused on developing the skills of employees through the provision of tailor made training courses based on the professional level of the employee. Palladio Academy is a single large brain managed by 10 founders who, with the help of over 35 trainers, are committed to sharing with everyone the company knowledge and the task of training the personnel while maintaining the standard of training at any group establishment. Palladio Academy promotes a culture of learning and sharing of business know-how for a company that is always at the forefront. Palladio Academy has just completed its first year of life, during which it has continued to grow and to carry on step by step the objectives set at the time of its foundation. The team has continued its journey, always working in a compact manner and enlisting gradually new members who, with great commitment and perseverance, have contributed to the development of the many projects put into place. These include the contribution made to the Open Recycling event (organized in collaboration with the Safety-Environment Office) and for the Today I’m in the Company too” event (an initiative created for children and employees of the Pontedera plant, in collaboration with Legambiente). 11.4 Palladio Wiki Palladio Wiki is our tool designed to know the business knowledge, an encyclopedia of knowledge of Palladio Group to which anyone who is interested can draw on and/or contribute to, collaborating with the team Academy. Palladio Wiki is the intellectual property of Palladio Group, accessible only through company email address or on special totems for consultation available to all those who do not have a business email address. 11.5 Ethic and anti-corruption training Aware that the fight against corruption is one of the main global challenges and represents a major obstacle to sustainable development, in 2017, on the occasion of the new issue of the Code of Ethics, we provided information on human rights to all employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 59 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11.6 First Aid courses BLSD (Basic Life Support and Defibrillation) In July and September, specific BLSD courses (attended by approx. 23% of the company's population) were carried out at our offices, whose goal is to significantly increase the chances of survival of those who go into cardiac arrest through the dissemination of the culture of rescue and the teaching of a few simple maneuvers that can make the difference between a certain death and surviving. AEDs (Automated External Defibrillator) were later installed as cardio-protection of personnel who work there and the local community. A smart and modern choice made even more important by the fact that it’s not yet a legislative requirement. 11.7 Environmental and sustainability training Personnel awareness in this field is very strong; the company promotes initiatives that directly involve employees, and in some cases also the family sphere through advertising campaigns of our sustainability activities through brochures, posters and visits to our factories, to ensure that our vision and commitment in the environmental field is also shared. 11.8 Lean Manufacturing meetings Palladio Group, through specific Lean Manufacturing meetings coordinated by employees with international certification (LEAN Champion), develops specific programs for updating the skills of employees in order to allow the achievement of strategic objectives in an ever evolving work environment. Our most qualified employees increase the human capital of the organization and contribute to employee satisfaction related to improved performance. Our weekly meeting system that involves members from sales, production and quality sectors (also made in video conference with the Group's sites) contributes to the training and growth of the competencies of the participants through the sharing of the know-how held by the specific professionals. These meetings, not recorded in official records, are estimated at over 9000 hours / year. page 60 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 12. HUMAN RIGHTS (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group always operates in compliance with fundamental human rights. As established by international conventions on the subject, it has based its activities on the support of those rights. The main points of reference were already reported in our Chart of Values. Our policies define at all the levels of the organisation and in all countries where we operate the commitment relating to the practices of respect and preservation of Human Rights. To confirm the above: We maintain working relationships with suppliers that demonstrate respect for human principles Any discriminatory behaviour based on race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, nationality or social extraction is reported, to the Committee of Ethics. Child labour is forbidden We don’t accept any form of forced labour. Any required work, falling outside the normal working hours, is regulated by national contracts in agreement with the workers' representatives and trade unions, providing compensation based on the overtime worked. In all countries where our Factories are and where we operate, the employees are guaranteed a working treatment above the average of workers present in that particular country. We also indirectly guarantee the respect of indigenous people and their territorial assets through membership of the FSC & PEFC Standards. Disputes concerning human rights have never risen as a result of our decisions or activities . In 2017, no reports of human rights violations were reported at the Group's plants and related to the work of Group employees or from internal or external Stakeholders. 12.1 Anti-discrimination (Ref. 406-1) Among the objectives of the company policy is the right to equal opportunities and social, racial and religious discrimination is condemned in favour of the integration of individuals and cultural exchange. We are in line with the national law requirements with regard to the percentage of disabled people employed, in order to ensure equal treatment; Palladio Group also supports their integration within the Organisation through assignments of dignifying tasks in respect of their disability. The conditions and workplaces are maintained / designed to encourage mobility for people with disabilities. During the year 2017 no reports on discriminatory human rights practices have been submitted. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 61 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 12.2 Freedom of association and collective bargaining (Ref. 102-41, 407-1) All employees are free to join trade unions or similar organisations, without this causing any attitude of advantage or disadvantage in their regards. The trade unions have the freedom to carry on their business, within all Palladio Group 2015 2016 2017 activities, without experiencing pressure or Hours of strike 0 0 0 interference from the Company. In the Hours of Union Trades 492 272 292 meetings Group companies, periodically, are held Number of union trade 91 81 73 meetings with the trade unions (paid) open members to all employees in order to support the Percentage union trade 17,14 13,73 11,41 right of workers to the freedom of members association. During the year 2017: There were no hours of strike organised by employees; 292 paid hours has been spent for meetings with trade union; the percentage of members of trade unions is 11,41. Our suppliers are monitored through appropriate control activities (guidelines and questionnaires), in which there are specific references to the freedom of association and collective bargaining. 12.3 Child Labour (Ref. 408-1) Child labour is not allowed in any plant of the Organisation. The minimum age of our employees in 2017 is 18, while the average age is 43. In regard to the provisions of our Code of Ethics our main raw material suppliers are monitored through specific questionnaires (see HR4) and all service providers (contractors) are controlled by specific statements attesting to their fulfilment of legislative and contractual obligations. 12.4 Forced Labour (Ref. 409-1) Inside of our company there have never been examples of forced or compulsory labour. We guarantee to all our employees appropriate working hours as enshrined by the National Contract; the work done in overtime is paid in accordance with the relevant legislation and workers participate on a voluntary basis to any initiative of overtime. Palladio Group’s working hours are determined so as not to prejudice the right of every worker to daily rest periods, needed for the refreshment of psychophysical and intellectual’s energies. Every worker has the right to holidays and sick leaves as they require. Once again, our suppliers are monitored / controlled, on this regard, through specific activities. page 62 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 12.5 Assessment (Ref. 412-1) The organisation, aware of its commitment to respect human rights, periodically controls and reviews the human rights’ aspects relating to all its activities. This is done through a process of formal assessment based on information provided by the Ethics Committees and the various directors for all activities of the Group’s plants. In this way Palladio Group can correctly address the decisions of the Organisation avoiding being associated or considered complicit in the activities undertaken by other entities with which they have or may have relationships. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 63 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY page 64 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13. SOCIETY (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group intends to be active and participatory in the territories in which it operates by creating better economic opportunities for the local community, supporting the improvement of the social and cultural conditions. Many were the initiatives in the field of solidarity, environmental education and sustainability, which are considered priorities for our organisation. Social commitment has always played an important role in the corporate culture of Palladio Group, it is firmly anchored to our values and it is reflected in the daily activities of all Plants which are programmed in order to mitigate the potential and actual impacts of our business. Prevention programs have been established and implemented to ensure compliance with the law, protect the physical, economic, and natural resources of the populations present in the areas where our Plants are located. Palladio Group has no tolerance to corruption. The value that guides our choices is based on meritocracy and ethics, rewarding our employees only in accordance with these principles. This principle is considered in the management of our customers, suppliers and any authority with which Palladio Group has relation. In Palladio Group:  It is allowed to promote the development of roles and reward corporate’s collaborators only in regard to the merits they demonstrated in terms of participation, professional growth, achievement of objectives and a sense of belonging to society.  It is not allowed to promise and / or offer (to managers, Officials and employees of the Public Administration or their relatives) objects, services, benefits or favours of value in order to achieve an interest or an advantage for Palladio Group. The offer of gifts or other benefits of nominal value are permitted only if consistent with the legitimate uses or customs.  Political parties, their representatives or candidates are cannot be funded, and shall refrain from any pressure (direct or indirect) towards politicians.  It is allowed to provide donations only to non-profit associations and Charities with regular statutes and constituent acts.  The sponsorship of activities may relate to social, environmental, sports, art and culture in general. Our commercial relations are based solely on trusting relationships with our customers which choose us only for the intrinsic qualities of the product we supply our suppliers are properly selected and qualified. None of them receive preferential treatments and there are no agreements in place where conflicts of interest are exposed or evident. Those who collaborate with our company should see in us a valuable partner in business and be aware that our way of doing business is based on principles and values of social ethics, not based on monopolistic practices that could lead to unfair competition or which may be in conflict with principles of anti-trust. For this reason, from the point of view of fair Marketing, we sent tour SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 65 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY customers and suppliers disclosure in which we present the commitment made by Palladio Group on Social Responsibility, aiming to sensitise them to operate in line with our principles. As stated above, it is confirmed, by the fact that our company has never received any administrative or judicial sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 13.1 Local communities (Ref. 413-1/2) The Company has a constant dialogue with the various local institutions and other organisations in order to assess any significant impact that our activities and business decisions may have on the community. The percentage of the activities in which the community have been involved is not available as there is no a system of measurement in use for this indicator. In 2017 Palladio took part in the event organized by Legambiente Clean Up the World”; this is a global environmental campaign held in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). In recent years we have supported various local, national and international associations. In 2017 the proceeds of the Christmas lottery of the Italian plants (doubled by the company) were donated to various humanitarian and social associations indicated by employees. The plant in Palladio East, as well as last year, wanted to brighten the Easter holidays of orphaned children and those of children with special needs giving to all treats and toys. As every year, instead of making a Christmas present to our customers, Palladio has allocated the figure to the charities Città della Speranza and “I Bambini delle Fate.” 13.2 Anti-corruption (Ref. 205-1/3, 414-1) In all factories of Palladio Group we have a zero-tolerance policy against corruption. The value that guides our choices is based on meritocracy and ethics. This brings us to reward our employees only on the basis of that value. Such a principle is also taken into account in the management of our customers, suppliers and any authority dealing with Palladio Group. Information about the percentage of business units analysed for risks related to corruption are not available due to the company size, an assessment of that risk is not carried out. Our financial statements are subject annually to review by Reconta Ernst & Young which determine and verify compliance with the regulations governing the reporting criteria. In this perspective, any accounting operation or transaction is based on the accuracy, completeness and authorisation of the basic information for the entries. All payments to be paid are appropriate to business performance and page 66 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY contractual rules and cannot be made to an entity other than the contracting party. If employees become aware of any type of falsification or omission, they must immediately report it to our Ethics Committee. In the year 2017 there were no corruption cases involving employees and / or suppliers; there have been no legal actions concerning corruption practices against the companies of the Group In 2014, fraudulent legal actions were taken against two employees who were then laid off. Business relations were interrupted with a supplier for violations related to corruption. There have been legal actions for fraud against him. The above actions are still on-going. 13.3 Public administration (Ref. 415-1, 201-4) Palladio Group has relations with public institutions primarily through the national trade associations and consequently does not take positions on public policy and also does not participate in the development of public policies. Company policies forbid the founding of political parties or their members. We do not receive financial benefits from the Public Administrations. The public administration is not part of the shareholding. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 67 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY page 68 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 14. MARKETING COMMUNICATION The Organisation has not adhered to programs, codes of conduct for marketing activities. This is due to the fact that these types of product are not provided directly to the final user that could be the subject of any sponsorship activities. Customers are typically contacted through normal business practices or through participation in public tenders. Participation in events and Exhibitions During 2017 we participated in various events and exhibitions, among them: Pharmtech & Ingredients Moscow Cphi Worldwide Frankfurt Maghreb Pharma Expo Algeri 57° edition of Simposio AFI Rimini All you can track and trace – Lanciano Traceability technology in the fight against counterfeiting –Italian Parliament, Rome PharmaPack – Paris. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 69 of 101 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY page 70 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PROFILO DEL REPORT 15. REPORT’S PROFILE (Ref. 102-50/51/52/53/54/55/56) The Sustainability Report is published annually. The report’s data refer to the last three years (2015, 2016, 2017) and they are indicated both per production unit and at group level. This report will be published on the website of the Global Compact of the United Nations, on the G.R.I. website and on our website (www.palladiogroup.com) as well as the company Intranet. For any additional information please contact: giampaolo.carone@palladiogroup.com. The aim is to annually disclose, to Stakeholders, information relevant to economic, environmental and social performances resulting from the Palladio Group's production. In particular, the report aims to frame in a wider context the activities of the company in accordance with the standards and the G4 guidelines of the GRI and the Principles of the Global Compact, which are part of the report. So far have been published: N. 6 Sustainability Reports (inclusive of the Communication On Progress), N. 2 Communication On Progress, N. 2 CDP Supply Chain Climate Change Report N. 1 CDP Supply Chain Water questionnaire. The last publication, available on our web site and that one of the UN Global Compact, dates back to July 2017. This report prepared in accordance to GRI Standard: Core option. It has been subjected to external verification activities by SGS.Italia spa. The certification related to this report is provided in the relevant section. Data on economic performance, deferred in the relevant section, are extracted from the Consolidated Financial Statements verified by auditors of Soc. Ernst & Young. 15.1 Link to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact The sustainability model adopted by Palladio Group is inspired by the United Nations Global Compact. . In May 2012 Palladio Group has formalized its adherence to the U.N. Global Compact, a pact that binds all those companies committed to aligning their operations and strategies to the 10 universally accepted principles concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The evidence of Palladio Group commitment to respect and promote these principles is accounted for in this report, in fact the GRI standard, applicable to Palladio Group, is considered in conjunction with each of the 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 71 of 101 PROFILO DEL REPORT page 72 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 COMPLIANCE 16. COMPLIANCE During the year 2017:  There have been no reports or complaints about suppliers work practices (Ref. 414-2)  During the reporting period there have been no administrative or criminal sanctions, financial and non-financial res judicata due to nonconformity or failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment Ref. 307-1)  No significant environmental impacts or environmental impact complaints have been reported (Ref. 308-2)  There have been no legal actions related to unfair competition, anti-trust and monopolistic practices Ref. 206-1)  In the reporting period we have not experienced any administrative or penal sanctions, pecuniary and non-pecuniary res judicata for non-compliance or non-compliance with laws and regulations to which the Group's facilities must comply Ref. 419-1)  There have been no reports or complaints concerning impacts on society (Rif. 414-2)  There have been no cases of non-compliance with voluntary regulations and codes concerning the impacts on the health and safety of products / services supplied by the Palladio Group plants during their lifecycle Ref. 416-2)  There were no cases of non-compliance with laws and voluntary regulations concerning information and labelling of products / services Ref. 417-1/2)  There were no cases of non-compliance with laws and voluntary regulations concerning the provision and use of the Group products and services (Ref. 417-3)  There have been no complaints regarding privacy breaches or loss of customer data (Ref. 418-1)  There have been no cases of non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the supply and use of products and services of companies in the Group Ref. 419-1) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 73 of 101 COMPLIANCE page 74 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES 17. DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Economic and financial results Ref. 201-1, 203-1 Palladio Group 2015 2016 2017 Directly Economic Value Generated 70.348.839,00 75.827.265,00 81.526.452,00 a) Revenues 70.348.839,00 75.827.265,00 81.526.452,00 Economic Value Distributed 65.822.717,00 69.580.540,00 74.219.642,00 b) Operating Costs 46.515.223,09 48.437.331,53 53.258.874,85 c) Employee wages and benefits 17.048.524,00 17.520.385,00 18.393.637,00 d) Payments to providers of capital 490.759,00 953.330,00 305.864,00 e) Payments to government (by country) 1.738.329,00 2.641.567,00 2.205.665,00 f) Community investments 40.697,91 27.926,47 55.601,15 Economic value retained 4.526.122,00 6.246.725,00 7.306.810,00 (1) Donations and financial contributions Detailed analysis of employees Ref. 102-8, 201-3, 202-1/2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 2015 2016 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA Total Employees Men 410 449 491 351 14 126 Total Employees Women 121 141 149 97 4 48 General Total Employees 531 590 640 448 18 174 Employees on permanent contract Men 337 347 366 266 10 90 Employees on permanent contract Women 82 90 98 64 2 32 Employees on fixed term contract Men 23 52 45 4 4 37 Employees on fixed term contract Women 18 22 19 2 2 15 Employees on part-time and solidarity Men 6 7 5 5 0 0 Employees on part-time and solidarity Women 11 10 10 10 0 0 temporary workers Men 44 43 76 76 0 0 temporary workers Women 12 19 21 21 0 0 With trade union membership 91 81 73 73 0 0 Affected by Disability 24 26 28 26 0 2 Foreigner 15 25 24 13 11 0 Salaries above minimum wage % employees 91,17 76,98 77,02 68,07 100 100 Annual salary Increments % over employees 33,15 4,99 7,28 9,12 22,22 0,00 Bonuses % over employees 100 99,23 100 100 100 100 Overtime % of hours worked 5,75 6,12 6,39 4,15 5,98 10,44 Holiday hours % of hours worked 8,88 8,83 9,41 8,50 8,46 11,14 Disciplinary Measures % over employees 5,88 0,83 4,71 5,13 5,55 3,40 Worked hours 828626 854877 885207 545235 34716 305256 Holiday hours 73557 75493 83303 46366 2937 34000 Overtime 47644 52279 56595 22639 2076 31880 % Ethical complaints 0,55 0,52 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 Cover of the pension plan 4.021.668 4.166.169 4.373.799 3.509.240 67.481 797.078 % Senior manager hired in the local community 90 100 100 100 100 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 75 of 101 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Employees age Analysis (employed during the reporting year) Ref. 102-8, 401-2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 2015 2016 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA Employees < 18 Total Employees under 18 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees < 30 Men 56 63 81 49 1 31 Women 12 20 18 10 1 7 White collar Men 3 3 2 0 02 White collar Women 4 5 5 1 1 3 Blue collar Men 53 60 79 49 1 29 Blue collar Women 8 15 13 9 0 4 Manager Men 0 0 0 0 0 0 Manager Women 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 68 83 99 59 2 38 Employees 30 – 50 Total Men 277 296 320 221 10 89 Total Women 87 95 106 64 3 39 White collar Men 40 39 39 23 16 White collar Women 25 30 31 13 3 15 Blue collar Men 236 258 276 194 9 73 Blue collar Women 61 62 72 49 23 Manager Men 0 2 5 4 1 0 Manager Women 3 2 0 1 Total 0 391 426 285 13 128 Employees >50 Total Men 77 90 90 81 3 6 Total Women 22 26 25 23 2 White collar Men 15 19 20 20 0 White collar Women 7 6 5 4 1 Blue collar Men 56 65 63 56 3 4 Blue collar Women 15 20 20 19 1 Manager Men 6 6 6 5 1 Manager Women 1 0 0 1 Total 99 116 115 104 3 8 Employees’ age Average age 40,42 40,34 40,00 43,00 41,00 36,00 Minimum Age 20 18 18 18 20 19 % over total Employees White collar Men 10,92% 10,34% 9,53% 9,60% 0,00% 10,34% White collar Women 6,78% 6,95% 6,41% 4,02% 22,22% 10,92% Blue collar Men 64,97% 64,92% 65,31% 66,74% 72,22% 60,92% Blue collar Women 15,82% 16,44% 16,41% 17,19% 0,00% 16,09% Manager Men 1,32% 1,19% 1,72% 2,01% 5,56% 0,57% Manager Women 0,19% 0,17% 0,63% 0,45% 0,00% 1,15% Anti-corruption Rif. 205-3 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 2015 2016 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA The total number of episodes for which employees have been dismissed or subjected to 0 0 0 0 0 0 disciplinary measures for corruption Total number of episodes for which contracts with business partners have not been renewed 0 0 0 0 0 0 for corruption-related offenses Number of legal actions regarding corruption practices against the organization or its 0 0 0 0 0 0 employees page 76 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Hiring and Terminations Ref. 401-1 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 2015 2016 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA New hires Men <30 8 15 11 0 1 10 New hires Women <30 2 1 3 1 1 1 New hires Men 30-50 12 25 17 9 0 8 New hires Women 30-50 6 15 7 3 1 3 New hires Men >50 0 0 3 3 0 0 New hires Women >50 0 1 0 0 0 0 Total leaving employment 11 24 30 16 3 11 Total New employees hires 28 57 41 16 3 22 New hires Men <30 1,51% 2,54% 1,72% 0,00% 5,56% 5,75% New hires Women <30 0,59% 0,29% 0,82% 0,22% 5,56% 0,57% New hires Men 30-50 14,63% 27,78% 17,35% 2,01% 0,00% 4,60% New hires Women 30-50 26,09% 28,85% 15,56% 0,67% 5,56% 1,72% New hires Men >50 0,00% 0,00% 15,79% 0,67% 0,00% 0,00% New hires Women >50 0,00% 14,29% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Rate leaving employment 2,07% 4,07% 4,69% 3,57% 16,67% 6,32% Rate New employees hires 5,27% 9,66% 6,41% 3,57% 16,67% 12,64% Training Rif. 403-4, 404-1/2/3, 412-2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 2015 2016 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA Total training hours 7486 10366 11178 7225 671,5 3282 Average training per employee 14,10 17,57 17,47 16,13 37,31 18,86 Number training hours divided by category ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA TOTALE year White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar 2015 1578 4050 25 183 493 1157 2096 5390 2016 1124 5886 20 762 564 2010 1708 8658 2017 1969 5255 147 525 760 2366 2876 8146 Average training hours divided by category ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA TOTALE year White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar 2015 26,75 12,39 8,33 16,64 15,41 12,71 22,30 12,56 2016 18,43 17,06 10,00 50,80 14,46 16,75 16,75 18,04 2017 32,29 15,23 73,25 35,00 19,49 19,72 28,20 16,97 Number training hours divided by gender ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA TOTALE year Men women Men women Men women Men women 2015 4631 997 183 25 1281 369 6095 1391 2016 6020 990 764 18 1854 720 8638 1728 2017 6111 1114 546 126 2353 773 9009 2013 Average training hours divided by gender ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA TOTALE year Men women Men women Men women Men women 2015 26,75 12,39 8,33 16,64 15,41 12,71 22,30 12,56 2016 18,43 17,06 10,00 50,80 14,46 16,75 16,75 18,04 2017 32,29 15,23 73,25 35,00 19,49 19,72 28,20 16,97 Ethics and anticorruption trainings 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Training hours 426.5 15 406 165 230 Trained employees 488 15 379 165 640 % Trained employees in the reporting year 100% 3% 71% 28% 100% % general Trained employees 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 77 of 101 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Right to parental leave Ref. 401-3 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA 2015 2016 2017 men women men women men women Number of employees who were entitled to parental leave. 13 9 8 2 2 0 0 0 4 number of employees who have taken parental leave 13 9 8 2 2 0 0 0 4 number of employees who have returned to work at the end of 14 4 4 1 1 0 0 0 2 parental leave number of employees who are still 0 5 4 1 1 0 0 0 2 availing of the parental leave number of employees who have returned to work after parental leave and who were still employed 13 4 4 1 1 0 0 0 2 twelve months after they returned to work Rate of return of employees (in %) 100 100 100 100 100 0 0 0 100 Retention rate of employees back to work (in %) 92,86 100 100 100 100 0 0 0 100 (1) percentage referred to the end of the parental leave period referred to the reporting year Health and safety at work Ref. 403-2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA 2015 2016 2017 Men women Men women Men women N° total work accidents 15 18 10 9 0 0 0 1 0 N° total accidents in transit 0 2 4 3 1 0 0 0 0 N° total days of absence due to 409 497 162 158 0 4 accidents Hours (no in by worked transit) the Employees 853.737 912.347 936.256 564944 34176 337136 (excluding N° holidays, total hours illnesses) of absence due to 3272 3976 1296 1264 0 32 accidents % hours (no ofin absence transit) due to 0,383 0,436 0,138 0,224 0,000 0,009 accidents on total Injury severity indexhours worked 0,48 0,54 0,17 0,28 0,00 0,01 Accident frequency index 17,57 21,92 14,95 23,01 0,00 2,97 Absenteeism 3,25% 3,32% 4,62% 4,20% 4,05% 5,38% Hours out for sick leave 27.728 30.327 43.234 23714 1384 18136 Total N. supplier’s accidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL TRAINING HOURS BREAKDOWN 2017 Training Health and safety at work 2015 2016 2017 ITALIA IRELAND SERBIA 3869,5 4238 2858 2.759 49 50 Sustainable Procurement REf.102-9/10, 308-1, 414-1 Division 2015 2016 2017 Total Suppliers ND 114 140 Total new suppliers selected and qualified on the ground of social, ND 5 26 environmental Percentage newcriteria and selected suppliers on their impact on the society and qualified on the ground of social, 85% 100% 100% environmental criteria Total suppliers of and on their raw materials impact of forest on the origin society (paper and cardboard) 21 21 39 Total Raw Materials Provider (Paper and Cardboard) 21 21 39 Total forestry raw material suppliers conforming to EUTR 995/2010 and / 21 21 39 or DDSraw material suppliers of FSC and / or PEFC certified forestry Total 100% 100% 100% page 78 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Used raw material Ref. 301-1 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 anno -1 Board Kg 18.967.429 19.577.489 19.466.402 -0,57% Paper Kg 3.338.770 3.829.507 4.655.153 21,56% Self-adhesive material kg 108.904 61.300 62.791 2,43% Aluminium for blister kg 10.691 9.566 50.743 430,45% Total Raw Materials from renewable kg 22.444.489 23.468.296 24.184.346 3,05% resources Total Raw Materials from no-renewable kg 10.691 9.566 50.743 430,45% resources Total Raw material kg 22.425.794 23.477.862 24.235.089 3,23% Delivered product kg 14.994.793 14.927.526 15.080.751 1,03% Percentages supply acquired in the local markets of the country for each Division Ref. 204-1 Division 2015 2016 2017 Italy 56,8% 51,0% 47,66% Serbia 35,49% 42,23% 58,47% Ireland 75,24% 91,21% 94,43% Percentage incoming Recycled raw materials used Ref. 301-2 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Total recycled raw materials kg 18.967.429 19.577.489 19.466.402 Total board used kg 5.163.640 6.833.608 4.798.077 Percentage incoming board / recycled raw material used % 27,22% 34,91% 24,65% Products and related packaging materials recycled at the end of their life cycle Ref. 301-3 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Sold product kg 14.994.793 14.927.526 15.080.751 Total recovery products sent for recycling kg 8.919.220 9.675.861 10.087.311 Percentage recovery products (recovery products /sold product) % 59,37% 64,82% 66,89% Energy consumption for production & air conditioning during Summer Ref. 302-1 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Electric power GJ 33.922,8 34.812,6 37.876,5 For the conversion from Kwahu to gigajoule it has been used the standard conversion factor equal to 0.0036 Energy consumption for heating Ref. 302-1 Natural Gas GJ 12.095,19 12.038,29 14.672,34 Gas oil GJ 680,2 509,6 459,6 For the conversion of volumes into gigajoule, the table in Annex 2 of this report has been used energy consumption in comparison with shipped products or with worked hours Ref. 302-3/4/5 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 anno -1 Absolute and comparative Consumption of natural gas Natural Gas Consumption Sm3 367.400 363.061 436.670 20,27% Gas used Sm3 / working hour Sm3/h 1,453 1,293 1,419 9,77% Gas used Sm3 / kg delivered product Sm3/kg 0,025 0,024 0,029 19,22% Absolute and comparative Consumption of electric power Electric power Consumption kwh 9.422.989 9.670.180 10.521.251 8,80% Electric power used Kwh / working hour kwh/h 37,258 34,441 34,198 -0,71% Electric power used Kwh/kg delivered product kwh/kg 0,6284 0,6478 0,6986 7,84% Absolute and comparative Consumption of gas oil Gas oil Consumption l 18.587 13.925 12.558 -9,82% Gas oil litres/ working hour l/h 2,238 1,400 1,095 -21,78% Gas oil litres/ kg product delivered l/kg 0,061 0,045 0,034 -24,43% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 79 of 101 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Water consumption Ref. 303-1/2/3 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 anno -1 Water withdrawn from mains m3 6.298 6.042 8.218 36,01% Water withdrawn from wells m3 1.328 648 218 -66,36% Water withdrawn from other sources m3 0 0 0 0 Total water withdrawal m3 7.626 6.690 8.436 26,10% waste Ref. 306-1/2/4 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 anno -1 Total waste produced kg 1.728.109 1.391.255 1.245.993 -10,44% Total raw material waste (*) kg 7.420.310 8.540.770 9.103.595 6,59% Total waste retrieved (R) kg 1.498.910 1.135.091 983.716 -13,34% hazardous waste kg 103.147 107.176 120.839 12,75% % hazardous waste on total waste generated % 5,969 7,704 9,698 25,89% %NOT hazardous waste on total waste generated kg 8,56 6,56 90,302 -2,16% NOT hazardous waste kg 1.624.962 1.284.079 1.125.154 -12,38% Total NOT hazardous waste / raw materials taken % 0,072 0,055 0,046 -15,04% Waste directly linked to production kg 211.753 223.258 235.682 5,56% Production waste / raw materials taken kg/kg 0,009 0,010 0,010 2,35% Total waste / raw materials taken % 7,71 5,93 5,15% -13,16% Total hazardous waste / raw materials taken % 0,46 0,46 0,50% 9,32% (*) Note: part of the raw material waste is sent, by the paper mills, for recycling or reuse. Emissions Ref. 305-1/2/3/4/5 UNITARY DATA CARBON FOOTPRINT Data reference U.M. 2015 2016 2017 anno -1 CO2 Emissions (Market based) tonCO2 20.297,60 20.469,63 18.025,77 -11,94% Direct CO2 tonCO2 725,90 710,53 854,70 20,29% emissions from fossil fuels (natural gasoil) Market based Indirect emissions of CO2eq tonCO2 4.989,31 5.105,50 2.336,28 -54,24% (i.e. generated by the E.P. provider) Location base Indirect emissions of CO2eq tonCO2 4.638,86 4.335,38 4.733,71 9,19% (i.e. generated by the E.P. provider) indirect emissions of CO2 from paper and paperboard production (as finished product) tonCO2 12.001,52 11.916,77 11.971,27 0,46% Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard purchases tonCO2 17.928,97 18.669,88 19.264,38 3,18% Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard waste tonCO2 5.927,44 6.753,11 7.293,11 8,00% indirect emissions of CO2 tonCO2 891,83 1.041,34 1.017,24 -2,31% from incoming transportation indirect emissions of CO2 tonCO2 1.689,05 1.695,49 1.846,28 8,89% from outgoing transportation Carbon footprint fuel tCO2/ton delivered product 0,0483 0,0471 0,0567 20,28% Carbon footprint electric power tCO2/ton delivered product 0,3088 0,2875 0,3139 9,18% Carbon footprint paper and board production tCO2/ton delivered product 0,7988 0,7903 0,7938 0,45% Carbon footprint Transportation tCO2/ton delivered product 0,1718 0,1815 0,1899 4,62% tCO2/ton Carbon Footprint (from all sources) delivered product 1,6598 1,6450 1,5092 -8,26% page 80 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES CARBON PRICE Data references U.M. 2015 2016 2017 anno -1 weighted average carbon price calculated €/tonCO2 8,78 5,14 5,82 13% gross carbon price €/tonCO2 178.155,16 105.291,79 104.898,04 0% carbon price from fossil fuels (natural gas) €/tonCO2 6.775,78 3.928,27 5.075,01 29% carbon price (i.e. generated by the E.P. provider) €/tonCO2 44.279,01 27.120,82 14.691,16 -46% carbon price from paper and paperboard €/tonCO2 104.965,63 60.482,03 69.039,17 14% production (as finished product) Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard €/tonCO2 157.088,20 95.623,67 111.428,75 17% purchases Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard €/tonCO2 39.832,15 26.927,94 30.574,10 14% waste indirect emissions of CO2 €/tonCO2 8.491,50 5.729,89 6.112,44 7% from incoming transportation indirect emissions of CO2 €/tonCO2 14.577,86 38.300,29 46.125,38 20% from outgoing transportation Total turnover € 70.348.839,00 75.827.265,00 81.883.288,01 8% Scope 1 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0000963169 0,0000518055 0,0000619786 20% Scope 2 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0006294206 0,0003576658 0,0001794158 -50% Scope 3 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0018200013 0,0013782932 0,0014810957 7% Gross carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0025324534 0,0013885743 0,0012810677 -8% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 81 of 101 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES page 82 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ALLEGATI 18. ANNEXES Annex 1Determination Table of the material aspects and boundaries Influence on Area Material Aspect Indicators GRI Significance Priority Stakeholder YES ECONOMIC Sustainable development 201-2, 411-1 204-1, 3011/2/3, 414-1/2, YES 412-3, 414-1/2 Procurement Emissions YES YES ENVIRONMENT Energy YES 305-1/2/3/4/5 302-1/3/4/5 Waste 303-1/2/3 304-1/2/3/4 306-3/4 Biodiversity YES YES YES Waste YES YES YES Health and safety at work Training and education YES YES Diversity and equal opportunities 403-1/2/3, 412-2 404-1/2/3, 205-2 405-1 YES SOCIETY Industrial Relationships 401-1/2/3, 4021, 405-2 408-1, 409-1 Child and forced labour 413-1/2, 415-1 205-1/2/3 416-1, 417-1, YES Local Communities 102-43, 418-1 YES YES YES Anti-corruption YES YES YES Product Responsibility 402-2, 307-1, 308-2, 206-1, YES COMPLIANCE Compliance 419-1, 414-2, YES YES 416-2, 417-2/3, 418-1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 83 of 101 ANNEXES Annex 2 Table of the coefficients used for environmental calculations CONVERSION FACTORS CONVERSION CRITERIA ADOPTED RIF. U.M. SOURCES FACTOR The following description is applied to determine the DENSITY t/l 0,845 CO2 emissions deriving from the combustion of diesel fuel during the reference period (calendar year). The amount of fuel used is expressed in LCV MJ/t 43,308 terms of energy content (TJ) and therefore the basic GAS OIL SOURCE: calculation formula is: Ton / CO2 = (t of diesel oil x EMISSION https://www.seai.ie/resources/seaiPCI x Emission factor x Oxidation factor) x FACTOR TCO2/TJ 73,300 statistics/conversion-factors/ 0.000001. Where: the amount of diesel is given by OXIDATION the purchase invoices. FACTOR The other data are extracted from the table of COEFF. 1,000 national Irish parameters LCV GJ/ 35,134 1000Stm3 Publication by the Ministry of the Environment and What is described below is used to determine the EMISSION the Protection of the Territory and the volume of CO2 in relation to the electricity FACTOR TCO2/TJ 55,897 Sea::http://www.minambiente.it/sites/default/files/ purchased regardless of how this is used. The archivio/allegati/emission_trading/tabella_coefficie amount of fuel used is expressed in terms of energy OXIDATION nti_standard_nazionali_31122017.pdf content (TJ) and therefore the basic calculation FACTOR COEFF. 1 NATURAL GAS formula is: Ton / CO2 = (Sm3 of gas x PCI x Emission factor x Oxidation factor) x 0,000001. AERS Serbia Where the amount of gas used is derived from the PCI Serbia GJ/ http://www.aers.rs/Index.asp?l=2&a=662 33,33835 invoice data 1000Stm3 specifically file excel: The other data are retrieved from the table of the Kalkulator-PrimerSvodjenja national parameters IPCC (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventory) Turn. Emiss. For Italy, they are notified by the Ministry of TCO2/TJ 56,100 www.sinanet.isprambiente.it Serbia Environment (Emission Trading Directive) Specifically Factors electricity emission production and consumption _2014-1 file excel n.11 Average Value Natural Gas, IPCC’06 Market based https://www.ecohz.com/wpcontent/uploads/2017/05/AIB_2016_Residual_Mix 465,11 ITALIA _Results.pdf What is described below is used to determine the Location based http://www.sinanet.isprambiente.it/it/siavolume of CO2 in relation to the electricity ispra/serie-storiche-emissioni/national-inventoryELECTRIC POWER purchased regardless of how this is used. The 332 report/at_download/file CONV. COEFF specific quantity of CO2 grams related to 1 kW/h (as Market based gCO2/ KWH http://www.iea.org (2010) SERBIA provided by the grid or by recognized standards) 724 needs to be calculated. Through these benchmarks Location based http://www.iea.org (2010) the amount of electricity-produced CO2 is 724 determined. The formula will then be: (amount of https://www.ecohz.com/wpMarket based purchased energy in kWh x conversion factor) x content/uploads/2017/05/AIB_2016_mix IRELAND 761,08 0.000001.) _Mix_Results.pdf Location based https://www.seai.ie/resources/publications/Energy 483 -in-Ireland-1990-2016-Full-report.pdf TRANSPORTS ANPA Publication (Agenize National FROM KM TO GCO2/ Transformation from km to gCO2 GCO2 KM 712 environmental protection) CO2 emission for transportation: 712 gCO2/km. ADESIVE Transformation from mg to kg COEFF. KG/MQ 0,107 Specific weight Board 0,936 CONV. TCO2/ RAW ETS data provided by suppliers or maximum COEFF. ton. Carta Paper 0,571 MATERIAL prod. value recorded in the table adhesive 0,936 CHANGE Carbon price value deduced from the last edition CARBON Currency Exchange COEFF. Euro/$ 1,13 of Report of Word Bank Group State and Trends PRICE of Carbon Pricing page 84 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ALLEGATI ANNEX 3 Correlation table of the Report with the 10 principles UN Global Compact AREA PRINCIPLE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE GRI INDICATOR Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their respective spheres of influence. 103-2, 412-2, HUMAN RIGHTS 413-1 Principle 2 414-2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, not even indirectly. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of employees and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 102-8, 102-41, compulsory labour 401-1, 401-3, LABOUR 404-3, 405-1, 405-2, Principle 5 406-1 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 201-2, 301-1, 301-2, Principio 8 302-1, ENVIRONMENT Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 302-4, responsibility 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, Principle 9 305-5 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 102-16, ANTICORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, extortion and bribery 413-2, 415-1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 85 of 101 ANNEXES Annex 4 – Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) LCA assess, in a systematic way, the environmental aspects and impacts of a system or multiple production systems, from the extraction of raw materials and resources to their final disposal, in accordance with the objectives and the scope defined. The study of LCA was performed on each of the Group's plants. The following environmental aspects were identified and taken into account: 1) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the transportation of raw materials, products and waste (indirect emissions); 2) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the processing of raw materials getting into to the production cycle (indirect emissions); 3) Greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of natural gas in the plants (direct and controllable emissions); 4) Greenhouse gas emissions from the production of electricity needed in the plants (direct and controllable emissions); 5) Water consumption; 6) Waste and scrap generated from raw materials (paper, cardboard and by-products). This aspect, albeit indirectly, impacts the consumption of raw materials; 7) Production of liquid waste Life cycle Inventory LCI At this stage was carried out data collection relating to the three years in question for each factory included within the system. All data, whether they are measured, calculated or estimated, were used to quantify the elements input to the limits chosen for reporting. Greenhouse gas emissions from the transport of raw materials, products and waste The data used included: List of incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the plant in Pontedera List of all incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the two plants in Vicenza (Dueville and Thiene); List of incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the plant in Vršac ; List of incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the plant in Tullamore; Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of incoming materials (paper, cardboard and their derivatives) We used the last three years data containing the quantities of raw materials entering in each plant in detail, the following incoming materials were identified:  Cardboard for folding cartons;  Paper for information leaflets;  Self-adhesive labels for stickers; Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of natural gas for premises heating For each plant, we used the natural gas consumption (invoices) for the last three years. Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of electricity We used data on energy consumption of each plant (invoices) for the last three years. Water Consumption We used data on water consumption (invoices) for the last three years Production of waste and scraps from the raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives). We used the last three years data of the quantities of raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives) coming into the plants and the production of waste and scraps of paper and cardboard products in each factory (MUD/ PO) Production of liquid waste We used the quantities of liquid waste produced at each plant in the last three years (annual declaration of production waste e.g. MUD for the Italian plants). The following types of waste were taken into consideration:  CER 08 01 20: water suspensions containing paint or varnish  CER 08 03 13: waste ink;  CER 08 04 16: glue wash;  CER 09 01 01: water-based developer and activator solutions;  CER 16 10 01: aqueous liquid waste. page 86 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ALLEGATI Annex 5 Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) The results emerged from the inventory cycle life have been correlated with specific environmental categories through the use of indicators of impact category, which represent in a quantifiable way the category concerned. After the impact categories and the related indicators have been selected, the LCI results have been converted using the characterisation factors, obtaining the results of the different category indicators. The sum of the contributions relating to each category allows obtaining the profile LCIA, which has the purpose of providing information regarding the environmental factors, associated with the input and output flows of the system chosen. Impact categories selection The environmental categories proposed by the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC Europe) in its Working Group on LCIA are listed below:  Extraction of abiotic resources: these types of resources includes three different types of natural elements: o Non-renewable resources (fossil fuels or minerals); o resources (groundwater, sand and gravel); o Renewable resources (surface water, solar energy, wind energy, etc.).  Extraction of biotic resources: including biomass harvested in sustainable modes as well as in unsustainable ways (deforestation)  Land use: reduction of plant and animal species present in a given territory.  Global Warming: increase in temperature in the lower atmosphere as a result of the presence of greenhouse gases that trap infrared radiation.  Depletion of ozone layer: a consequent increase in the incidence of ultraviolet rays, which are harmful to humans and to all ecosystems in general.  Eco-toxicity: impacts on species and ecosystems due to direct emissions or subsequent degradation of the products.  Human toxicity: due to the presence of chemical or biological substances emitted into the environment  Photochemical pollution: caused by the formation of tropospheric ozone following the reactions of volatile organic components in the presence of light and NOX.  Acidification: release of protons (H +) in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.  Eutrophication: due to an excess of nitrates, phosphates, organic substances and nutrients. Classification Now that the effects and potential harm of emissions on human health and the environment are known, the results from the inventory phase of the life cycle can be associated with one or more categories of impact. Characterisation In this phase we obtain the quantification of the impact generated. The data in the inventory are transformed into indicators of numeric character, thus determining the relative contribution of each individual substance or resource used. Application to the Palladio Group Referring to the results from the inventory phase of the life cycle, the relevant impact categories are listed below:  emissions of greenhouse gases have been linked to the category GLOBAL WARMING;  water consumption has been associated with the category EXTRACTION OF ABIOTIC RESOURCES  the production of waste and therefore, even indirectly, the consumption of paper and cardboard has been associated with the category EXTRACTION OF BIOTIC RESOURCES  the production of liquid waste has been associated with the category ECOTOXICITY. Total Global Warming and comparison between the group’s plants Following the classification, the greenhouse gas emissions have been associated with this category of impact resulting from:  Transportation of raw materials, products and waste;  Processing of the incoming paper material;  Consumption of natural gas;  Consumption of electric power.  Consumption of heating oil. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 87 of 101 ANNEXES  page 88 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ATTESTAZIONI 19. CERTIFICATIONS 19.1 Certification of financial statements Palladio Group (pag.1/3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 89 of 101 CERTIFICATIONS Certification of financial statements Palladio Group (pag.2/3) page 90 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ATTESTAZIONI Certification of financial statements Palladio Group (pag.3/3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 91 of 101 CERTIFICATIONS 19.2 Certification of financial statements Ireland (pag.1/2) page 92 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ATTESTAZIONI Certification of financial statements Ireland (pag.2/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 93 of 101 CERTIFICATIONS 19.2 Certification of financial statements Palladio East page 94 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ATTESTAZIONI 19.3 Sustainability Report SGS certification (pag.1/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 95 of 101 CERTIFICATIONS Sustainability Report SGS certification (pag.2/2) page 96 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI 20. Explanatory table of the contents of Report (GRI STD) The 2017 Sustainability Report of the Palladio Group was drawn up in accordance with the GRI Standard, “Core” option. The table below shows the Group's information based on the GRI standards with reference to the materiality analysis of Palladio Group. For each indicator, the relevant page number of this Sustainability Reports indicated. GRI STD INDICATOR’S TITLE PAGE NOTES 102-1 Name of the organization. 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters. 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, 5-13 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Dimensions of the organisation. 102-8 Number of employees per contract type, region e type 52, 75, 76 102-9 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 33-36, 78, 102-10 Description of the supplier chain 79 102-11 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 102-12 Explanation of the precautionary approach application 16-17 102-13 Codes of conduct Underwriting Statement by the CEO and commitment to respect the principles of the 102-14 U.N. Global Compact 1-3 102-15 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities. 102-16 Values, principles, standards and rules of behaviour 18 102-17 Warning mechanisms and doubts related to ethics 19 102-18 Organization governance structure 15 102-40 List of stakeholder groups involved in the organization’s engagement 25-29 activities 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 52, 62 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to undertake engagement activities 102-43 Approach of stakeholder’s engagement activities, including frequency of 25-29 engagement by type and by stakeholder group 102-44 Key topics and criticalities 102-45 Companies included in the consolidated financial statements and an indication of the companies included in the report 21 102-46 Process of defining report content 102-47 List of aspects identified as material 102-48 Explanation of the effects of changes in calculations 22 102-49 Significant changes from the previous reporting period 102-50 Reporting period. 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 97 of 101 INDEX OF THE GRI CONTENTS 102-51 Date of most recent previous report. 102-52 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 102-53 Contacts and useful addresses to request information on the sustainability report and its contents 102-54 Indication of the chosen option In accordance 102-55 Index of the GRI content 102-56 Report ‘s external Assurance 103-1 Explanation of the material matter and its boundary 22 103-2 Managerial approach and its components 30-31, 3336, 39, 41, 103-3 Assessment of the Managerial approach 51-52, 61, 65-66, 201-1 Economic value generated and distributed 39, 75 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 40, 75 201-3 Coverage of the pension plans defined by the organisation 201-4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 67, 75 202-1 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage. 41, 75 202-2 Percentage of senior management hired from the local community. 203-1 Infrastructures and services provided 39 203-2 Main indirect economic impacts 204-1 Percentage of expenditure concentrated on local suppliers 33-36 205-1 Operation analysed for risks related to corruption 66-67 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption procedures and policies 57-60 205-3 Accidents related to corruption and actions taken 66-67, 76 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopolistic 66-67, 73 practices 301-1 Raw Materials used by weight or volume. 301-2 Percentage of raw materials used that are recycled input materials. 33-36, 79 301-3 Products and their packing materials that are reused 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 47, 79 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Not accounted for 302-3 Energetic Intensity 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 47, 79 302-5 Reduction of energy consumption of products and services 303-1 Total water withdrawn by source 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 48-49, 80 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 304-1 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 304-2 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 36 304-3 Habitats protected or restored. 304-4 Number of species of IUCN Red List and species in the national conservation lists with habitats in areas affected by operations, broken down by level of extinction risk 305-1 Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) 44-46, 80page 98 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI 305-2 Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) 81 305-3 Other Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 3) 305-4 Intensity of GHG emissions 305-5 Reduction of the GHG Emissions 305-6 Emissions of substances that damage the ozone layer (ODS) Not accounted for 305-7 NO, SO, and other significant emissions Not accounted for 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 48, 80 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills. 306-4 Hazardous waste transport 306-5 Water structures affected by discharges and / or outflow 48 307-1 Non-conformities with environmental laws and regulations 73 308-1 New suppliers assessed on the ground of environmental criteria 33-36, 78 308-2 negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 73 401-1 total number of hiring and turnover rate 401-2 Benefit given to full time employees that are not given to short term or 52-53, 76, part-time employees 77, 78 401-3 Parental leave 402-1 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 52-53 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 54-55, 77, 403-3 Workers with a high incidence or high risk of accident or occupational 78 disease 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 404-2 Programs for skills management and career endings. 57-60, 77 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 405-1 Composition of the governing bodies and employees breakdown 53 405-2 Ratio between male and female basic salary 406-1 Accidents on discrimination and actions taken 61 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 62 collective bargaining can be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for accidents on child labour 62 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for accidents on forced or 62 compulsory labour 410-1 Safety personnel who have received training on human rights procedures Not accounted for and policies 411-1 Number of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions 36 taken 412-1 Number and percentage of operational areas subjected to screening on 63 human rights 412-2 Employees training on human rights policies and procedures 54-55, 77 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 33-36 rights clauses or that are subject to evaluation 413-1 Operation with implementation of local community involvement programs, impact and development assessment 66 413-2 Operational areas with actual or potential significant negative impacts on local communities 414-1 33-36, 66, New supplier assessed on the ground of social criteria 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 99 of 101 INDEX OF THE GRI CONTENTS 414-2 negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 33-36, 73 415-1 Political contributions 67 416-1 Assessment of Health and safety impact of the products and services 31 categories 416-2 Non-conformities related to impacts on Health and safety of the products 73 and services 417-1 Requirements for information on products and services and labelling 73 417-2 Non-conformities related to information on products and services and 73 labelling 417-3 Accidents of non-compliance related to marketing communications 73 418-1 Complaints about breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data 31, 73 419-1 Failure to comply with social and economic laws and regulations 73 page 100 to 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 QUESTIONNAIRE 22. Sustainability Report's Assessment Questionnaire To allow all interested readers to express their opinion about the compliance of the Sustainability Report with the principles of guarantee and quality of the information provided in this edition, we have inserted the following questionnaire in order to receive any useful suggestions to clarify and improve the contents of these financial statements. The questionnaire can be completed and sent by e-mail to the following address: info@palladiogroup.com. Thank you for your attention and time. 1) Indicate the belonging category of Stakeholders □ Shareholders □ Suppliers □ Customer □ Employees (specify plant) _____________________________ □ Community □ Institutions □ Business Partner □ Other 2) Assessment of the current sustainability report Completeness of information □ □ □ Clarity of information □ □ □ Transparency of information □ □ □ Clarity of the results: Economical □ □ □ Environmental □ □ □ Social □ □ □ 3) To what extent this Sustainability Report has met your information needs? 4) Which information would you like to be deepening to improve next year's Sustainability Report? 5) Do you believe that this Sustainability Report is a useful tool to gain a better knowledge of the Palladio Group business reality? 6) Any other comment and/or suggestion? SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 page 101 of 101
