SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM GROUP 2017 CEO Message: On Track for the Future Relacom’s internal operations have long involved a One of our priority areas is health and safety. In fact, we strong focus on sustainability in all parts of our business. have decided that health and safety should be a standing In concrete terms, this means that we have developed a item on the agenda at all board and management meetings. holistic view that includes not only environmental and social It should also be one of the key metrics for monitoring our responsibility, but also corporate governance, working activities in all of the countries in which we operate. Our conditions and ethics. Moreover, we also want to be goal is to increase awareness of health and safety issues trans­parent about the work we do by reporting on our throughout the organization and to minimize both sick leave efforts. With that in mind, this year’s sustainability report is and the risk of occupational injuries. the seventh such report to be published by Relacom. We published our first report back in 2011. Relacom also has a number of initiatives in place in connec­ tion with environmental sustainability. For example, we are currently renewing virtually our entire vehicle fleet in Sweden. This upgrade will be completed in the first half of 2018, making 95 per cent of our fleet compliant with the latest Euro 6 standard’s emissions requirements. In addition, we only buy green electricity for use in our rented premises wherever possible. Relacom is also working to certify its operations in line with ISO standards In 2017 our Denmark division also achieved certification according to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. In both Denmark and Finland, Relacom also received EcoVadis’ prestigious award for our CSR work. Our 2016 sustainability report had the theme “We Aim for the Future”. Naturally, the same is true of this year’s report and I am both happy and proud to state that we are on track to meet that aim. That said, we don’t plan to rest on our laurels. There is always more work to be done! Veronica Ezeyza-Alvear President & CEO Content: 2 CEO Message 17 Relacom Norway 3 About Relacom 21 Relacom Denmark 5 Sustainability Management 24 Relacom Finland 7 Materiality Analysis 29 About This Report 10 The Relacom Way 30 GRI Cross Reference Index 12 Relacom Sweden 2 About Relacom About Relacom Relacom is a leading technology services provider offering companies can feel confident that our deliveries will strategic solutions to the telecommunications, power and strengthen their businesses. IoT markets. Over the years, Relacom has become the preferred partner of leading global telecommunications and The IoT market and related services are expected to expand power companies as well as of national retail and logistics considerably as a result of increasing digitalization. We enterprises. define IoT as a network of physical objects and solutions with embedded technology for communicating and sensing, or Within the telecom business area, Relacom’s main objective interacting with, their internal states or the external environ­ in planning, building and maintaining wired and wireless ment. They offer smart and efficient solutions for consumers, networks and delivering state-of-the-art fibre rollouts is to businesses, society and Relacom alike. provide high-quality and cost-efficient networks that operate with minimal interruption. Our customers can feel confident Relacom can create value for system and application in their ability to meet their own customers’ needs when they providers and users by providing the following services: use Relacom’s solutions. Relacom has considerable professional rollout, installation, maintenance, break & fix, experience in providing end-customer interaction that upgrade, operation, on-site support and end-of-life and increases customer satisfaction and strengthens loyalty to recycling support. We also aim to develop business models their operator. Our presence in four countries and strong based on managing data on IoT platforms. relationships with leaders in the field make Relacom a key provider of network services for pan-Nordic customers. Relacom’s target customers in IoT are application vendors, operators, developers, importers and application users The power business area’s fast-growing market necessitates with a suitable size/volume. We also focus on cases where major investments in power and energy infrastructure. As an technology, application, business environment, or usealternative to establishing in-house resources, several power case knowledge and understanding comprise competitive companies and network owners utilize service providers advantages for Relacom. Our growing customer base is to manage non-core business and processes. Thanks to clear evidence of our ability to package our experience into Relacom’s strong construction operations and renowned competitive, transnational services that offer commercial production management and efficiency models, power value to our customers. We support UN Global Compact As of 2012, Relacom is a UNGC signatory. Did you know? Company Name This commitment entails working in Relacom Group (Relacom Management AB) accordance with the UN’s ten fundamental Countries of Operation principles for responsible business. The Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark Global Compact includes: Principles for Number of employees human rights, labour conditions, ~ 2,700 environment and anti-corruption. Location of Headquarters Solna, Sweden We also submit a report annually, entitled Revenue ‘Communication on Progress’, which ~ 3.6 Billion SEK summarises our commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles. For further financial information please see the annual report for Relacom Management AB. 9 3 About Relacom Organization Technical Consultancy Services – We offer special­ Company guidelines, targets and visions are decided jointly ized technical consulting for site acquisition, network at the group level. The Group includes Relacom Sweden, planning, implementation, operation and integration, as Relacom Finland, Relacom Norway, Relacom Denmark well as procurement process consulting. and Orbion Consulting. Relacom Group’s CEO is Veronica Ezeyza-Alvear. Corporate Governance Relacom Management AB is Relacom Group’s parent Relacom is active in four business areas and supplies the company and is owned by Nordea Bank and DNB Bank. following products and services: The company’s shareholder meeting is the Group’s primary legal decision-making body. Decisions made by the shareholders are converted into directions, frameworks and Telecom – Working together with our customers, we targets by the board of directors and communicated to the ensure that the Nordic countries are connected to fibre Group’s management team. and copper, 3G, 4G and the future 5G networks, both indoors and outdoors. The Group’s management team is responsible for guiding the company to meet the targets set by the board of directors ac­ IoT – We take part in network design, construction, main­ cording to the directions given and within the set frameworks. tenance and fault repair for both today’s and to­morrow’s Below this executive level, the Group is managed by manage­ needs. This includes smart metering, meter value ment committees and along solid reporting lines. To ensure manage­ment and smart grid solutions. responsible decision-making, Relacom has developed what is known as our Group Authorization Matrix. This document Power – We are a part of today’s and tomorrow’s net­ defines levels of authority for key positions regarding the work design, construction, maintenance and fault repair. right of attestation and the right to make decisions on behalf Smart metering, meter value management and smart of the company. grid solutions. CEO Support & CFO Group Functions Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Telecom IoT Power Orbion CUSTOMERS National, regional and transnational 4 Sustainability Management Relacom has a group-level code of conduct and antiA brief Summary of our Code of Conduct: corruption policy that applies in each country where we Relacom strives to create sustainable advantages for its operate. In 2016, we integrated sustainability goals with customers, employees, suppliers, the environment and the our business goals. We follow up on and evaluate our community. progress in connection with these goals on a monthly basis. Where our goals have not been achieved, an Relacom most often represents its business-to-business action plan is presented to get us back on track. customers when meeting end-customers. As such, our con­ duct is critical to our customers’ success. These reviews aim to promote the joint development of our sustainability efforts for the countries involved. We have performed a SWOT analysis on our material issues Relacom obeys the laws and regulations of each country and have identified which of these we need to follow up in our business activities. on and prioritize during 2018. Relacom respects human rights and our growth is Relacom also requires that effective systems for managing based on a sustainable and responsible approach in quality, environmental issues and the working environment which our employees play a key role. Relacom aims are in place in every country where we operate. to be the benchmark in our industry and to offer an attractive working environment that draws new emSustainability Goals & indicators 2017: ployees. That our customers are satisfied Relacom strives to employ a long-term environmental CES (Customer Effort Score) strategy that minimizes our negative environmental That we develop the competence of our project leaders impact and to follow the precautionary principle. Certified project leaders That our employees are engaged and motivated Relacom strives to establish long-term relationships Shorter periods of sick leave with suppliers and to achieve sustainable advantages That we have a safe working environment through cooperation. Accidents resulting in sick leave Accidents not resulting in sick leave We are committed to preventing corruption in all its Number of incidents forms and do not tolerate it in our own operations, nor in those with whom we do business. We are achieving our goals related to shorter periods of sick leave. 2017 has been a foundation year for developing relevant Compliance KPIs for accidents resulting in sick leave/not resulting in In 2017, no instances of non-compliance and no significant sick leave. We will continue to develop our customer findings were noted regarding laws and regulations. Neither satisfaction system during 2018 and also intend to carry were any grievances reported regarding the environment, out a customer survey during the year. In addition, each social matters, or our products and services. national company will undertake activities to improve incident-reporting. Anti-corruption Relacom’s management group has drawn up a policy that In summary, our code of conduct means that Relacom is com­ applies to all Group companies and employees. In turn, mitted to working in harmony with the UN’s ten basic principles country representatives are responsible for informing for responsible enterprise. Each year, we prepare a report organization staff about the content of the policy and entitled Communication on Progress that summarizes how for ensuring that it is followed. Country representatives Relacom is supporting and working in harmony with Global inform and help employees understand how they are Compact and its principles. expected to act in all manner of situations when inter­ acting with our customers. Whenever a new staff member 5 Sustainability Management is employed, they are informed about this policy and our whistle-blower function. In 2017, several of our customers performed external CSR audits and evaluated our performance. No cases of Purpose, Values, Vision Code of Conduct, non-compliance regarding anti-corruption were found and we will continue to educate and inform our employees Business model Anticorruption about our code of conduct and whistle-blower function Policy during 2018. Supply Chain Relacom engages a number of suppliers. To ensure that each of them lives up to both our values and those of our customers, we have chosen to work with a handful of large Management distributors based in the Nordic region. We have consciously System chosen companies that are based in the countries in which Environment, Quality we operate. and Work Environment Relacom’s contractors are screened through a qualification process that imposes requirements on their environmental and health and safety work and on their business ethics. Our code of conduct is part of each country office’s supplier policy. Our Sustainability framework. 6 Materiality Analysis Our Stakeholders Holding an active dialogue with our stakeholders is an important part of our sustainability efforts and is necessary to understanding their needs and expecta­ tions. This approach supports development and forms the basis for this report. Since Relacom’s operations affect, and are affected by, a large number of different stakeholders, good and open dialogue is important for developing and strengthening long-term relationships. Our employees meet stakeholders daily in various forums and the majority of our stakeholder relations are established through our meeting and communica­ tions channels. We meet with customers and contrac­ tors on a daily basis. Customer surveys, employee satisfaction surveys, annual general meetings, proxy meetings, supplier meetings, trade fairs, industry meetings and meetings with employer organizations are conducted throughout the year. Collaborative projects conducted with public employment services and upper secondary schools are further examples of instances when we meet and communicate with our stakeholders. tio n s iz a Up an O rg pe r s’ ye r Se p lo co Customers Owners nd Em ary Sc hoo Relacom ls Employees Suppliers ies Tra r it ho Contractors de ut As cA so bli cia Pu tio n ners sOw Our business environment. Materiality Analysis Relacom conducted a materiality analysis in 2017 in accordance with the guidelines found in GRI G4 to identify which issues our internal and external stake­ holders consider important. Stakeholders such as customers and employees contributed to this analysis. Both stakeholders and Relacom management an­ swered a survey regarding which issues they consider relevant On the next page (left) is a summary of the result of the survey, summarising how important the stakehold­ ers and the Relacom management believes that the different aspects are. Also on next page (right) is a diagram showing how much Relacom can impact the various actors in the value chain regarding the most important aspects. 7 Materiality Analysis Employment conditions, such as salaries and other forms of remuneration and benefits. Promotion of physical and mental health at work and prevention of occupational injuries. Competence development and personal development at work. Work to promote diversity and equal treatment, and reduce discrimination. Respect for freedom of association and collective negotiations. Contractor / supplier control regarding environment, work environment and human rights. Control of the development of earnings, liquidity and balance sheet Process for dealing with suspected irregularities. Measures to minimize the risk of corruption. Process for handling customer complaints and complaints. Anti-cartel and other anti-competitive activities. Follow-up and measures to increase customer satisfaction. Knowledge of – and compliance with – current and future legislation related to the industry. Local community involvement – environmentally and socially. Sustainable choice and sustainable use of materials. Responsible and transparent political engagement and support. Sustainable choice and sustainable use of chemicals. Certification of services for communicating sustainability performance. Energy efficiency and use of renewable energy in the activities of the services provided. Correct, factual, relevant, impartial and comprehensible information about the activities. Consideration of the habitat for animals and plants. Protection of personal data and integrity. 8 9 The Relacom Way Everything we do starts with people, whether we con­ ability to work cross-border and with a flexible and sult, plan, build or maintain networks and equipment. non-bureaucratic mind-set. The impression Relacom leaves on the community is influenced by how we run our operations. This includes Core Values – Reliable & Competent how efficient our processes are and how we manage Relacom is a reliable partner. Every day, we must our production and create tools to meet our customers’ make sure that our customers experience high quality and stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. in the services we provide. Becoming and remaining reliable is an on-going process. Relacom’s vision is to be the preferred service partner within technical infrastructure in the Nordic Relacom employs competent people. We have both region. technical expertise and years of experience working with a variety of systems. These qualities help us Our mission is to offer flawless operation and com­ take a proactive approach and fulfil our commitments. mercial value in our customers’ networks. We are present both on a personal level and in a geographical sense. Realizing our vision and mission requires talented people who are service-minded and who have the 10 Our Markets 12-16 Relacom Sweden 17-20 Relacom Norway 21-23 Relacom Denmark 24-28 Relacom Finland NO RW AY SW ED EN FIN LAN D DE NM AR K 11 Relacom Sweden Relacom Sweden Relacom Sweden is a nationwide technology services tive bargaining agreements Central Telecom Agreement for provider. We provide services to Sweden’s telecommunica­ civil servants and the Power Contract for workers. Local tions (fibre and mobile solutions), power and IoT markets. agreements specific to Relacom AB are regulated through The company employs around 430 technicians and project supplementary collective agreements. specialists throughout the country. TABLE 1. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW CEO EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE AND GENDER Support & G4-LA1 a CFO Group Functions 2017 <30 31–50 >51 Total Women 7 3 1 11 Men 39 25 11 75 Telekom IoT Power Total 46 28 12 86 TABLE 2. STAFF MOBILITY [%] G4-LA1 b 2017 2016* 2015* Total staff turnover 17,6 -34 -42 CUSTOMERS National, regional and transnational * The organisational changes made involved redundancies. Relacom keeps pace with current legislation concerning Relacom has a standing agreement with a healthcare pro­ the natural and work environments. Relacom employees vider. Statistics on absence due to illness are monitored on can access copies of relevant documents via a web-based a regular basis and compiled for review at a group meeting compliance tool provided by RSM&CO. We follow up our each month. The figures are discussed by Relacom’s activities annually through written self-evaluations that com­ various management and collaboration groups, at the pare our work with the register of laws in effect. Compliance executive and management level and in the Central is also monitored for recurring internal audits. Protection Committee. Relacom aims to maintain the highest standards of qual­ The aim of this monitoring is to reduce absences due to ity, honesty, transparency and accountability at all times. illness and to minimize employees’ risk of suffering ill health We therefore support and protect employees who report or accidents. The Central Protection Committee follows up suspicions about wrongdoing. A whistle-blower function is reported incidents in order to enact preventive measures. available to all employees via Relacom’s intranet. Protection rounds to monitor the physical and psychosocial work environments as well as the quality of personal protec­ An employee who suspects unlawful activity or bribery and tive equipment are also conducted on an on-going basis. who feels unable to talk to their manager about their suspi­ cions, or feels unsure of whether a case is being handled Systematic Efforts to Improve Our Work Environment properly, can use the whistle-blower function. The function A sound working environment aids business development, provides a risk-free way for employees to report suspicions encourages physical and psychological well-being, helps of irregularities, misconduct, or crime. Information provid­ motivate employees and encourages their personal develop­ ed by employees via the whistle-blower function will be ment. Relacom systematically improves its work environ­ treated as confidential. You do not need to identify yourself, ment through regular surveys, improvement measures and although, obviously, it makes things easier for us if we can by following up the status of our operations. This helps us contact you to provide help and feedback. prevent illness and accidents in the workplace and creates a better working environment for everyone. Work Environment Relacom is a member of the employers’ associations Work environment considerations include the physical, Almega and Energiföretagens Arbetsgivarförening. Our technical and psychosocial conditions that are important terms of employment are governed primarily by the collec­ for creating a sound working environment. Managers and 12 executives work with employees, safety officers, our occupa­ customers and input from managers based on professional tional health strategist and others to achieve effective and development interviews held with staff. By taking this approach, satisfactory solutions. Not only are we required to comply we give our employees better opportunities to develop and also with Swedish work environment legislation, but our customer strengthen Relacom’s collective expertise at the same time. agreements also contain clear health and safety rules for us While all personnel were offered the chance to sign up for an to follow. We did not note any deviations from these commit­ interview, only 57 per cent accepted. ments during 2017. The same opportunities for professional development must Relacom received two routine visits from the Swedish Work be available to all staff, regardless of whether they are Environment Authority during 2017, which did not result in technicians, managers, or administrative staff. Relacom any injunctions regarding measures. In addition, one of our also offers professional development programmes to our customers, Telia Company AB, conducted a CSR review this employees. past autumn that found only four discrepancies in total in the areas of occupational health and safety, anti-corruption Competence and supply chain compliance. We also began implementing The annual professional development interviews that man­ the international standard OHSAS 18001 during the year. Its agers hold with their employees are the primary tool in the implementation will be completed in 2018. company’s competence development process. The overall purpose of the process is always to ensure employee devel­ A Preventive Work Environment opment, high-quality service for our customers and Relacom’s Relacom aims to be top of its class when it comes to employee preparedness for future challenges. It is also important to give safety and commitment. A safe and pleasant work environment employees and managers an opportunity to review workplace allows our employees to develop and to deliver high-quality well-being and to note whether anything needs to be changed service to our customers. Relacom always prioritizes our or reinforced. employees’ and customers’ health and safety. We strive to achieve our vision of zero accidents. The foundation for The professional development interview also serves an achieving this goal is following legislation and rules. important function in connection with Relacom’s efforts to maintain a healthy work environment. It allows managers Health and safety considerations are included in all collective to ensure that employees have the skills needed in the work bargaining agreements and supplementary contracts are environment on a running basis and that there are no problems agreed upon with various labour organizations on an on-going in employees’ day-to-day working life. basis. Relacom’s Central Protection Committee meets to discuss work environment-related issues such as accidents, incidents and changes within the organization every three months. These meetings focus on measures for reducing sick leave and injuries based on the available statistics in three main reporting categories: accidents that result in sick leave, accidents that do not result in sick leave, and incidents (near misses). We compile these data in a database based on reports filed by managers. TABLE 3. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS G4-LA 6 a 2017 2016 2015 Injuries* 6 4 7 Work-related accidents 0 0 0 resulting in death Days lost due to work-related 10 11 339 accidents Sick leave as a percentage of total 2.7 3.2 3.9 work time** *Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave **Average for the entire year Professional Development We identify needs within the organization and create training opportunities that meet them. In part, the range of training offered is determined by Relacom’s overarching strategies as stated in our business plan, requirements imposed by our 13 Relacom Sweden Environmental Work Our environmental work aims to find solutions that are both Waste hierarchy within the organisation good for the environment and that benefit our customers Reduse: Lower amount of waste produced and employees. Energy, climate, work in sensitive areas, chemicals and waste are focus areas within our environ­ mental work. We haven’t had any injunctions for fines or Reuse: Use materials repeatedly sanctions for environmental crimes in 2017. Recycle: Use materials to make new products Climate Our environmental work aims to find solutions that are both Recover: Recover energy from waste good for the environment and that benefit our customers and employees. Energy, climate, work in sensitive areas, Landfill: Safe disposal of waste chemicals and waste are all focus areas. Relacom did not receive any injunctions, fines, or sanction fees for environ­ mental misdemeanours in 2017. Our ambition is to ensure that all waste from our own Energy Efficient Services operations is recycled as quickly as possible. All our Energy use in the form of electricity, heating and cooling places of business have collection stations for waste. is one of our most critical environmental issues. It is still We have also implemented procedures for proper waste difficult to pinpoint the exact amount of energy used at handling and transportation for locations where we carry our smaller, rented offices, where electricity and heating out assignments other than our offices. are included in the leasing fee. Our real estate division is responsible for establishing procedures for reporting on Waste Minimization Well-established in Our Company and following up energy use together with our property Our IT help desk manages the company’s hardware, tele­ owners. phone entry system, alarms and IT technology aids. Our goal is to minimize electronic waste by recycling everything Relacom is working to develop energy-efficient products and that can be reused. For example, our technical department services. As a starting point, we have installed a number of has a repair unit that fixes products and replaces parts so systems with electric charging posts for vehicles. This is a that devices can continue to be used. Our waste manage­ business area that is set to grow significantly in 2018. We ment programme follows the waste hierarchy, with a focus on can also install solar panels and intelligent indoor solutions for minimizing waste to an increasing extent through purchasing connected devices that positively affect power consumption. controls and the reuse of purchased products. Waste Cooperation with Suppliers Both waste minimization and responsible waste manage­ Carefully considered purchases allow Relacom both to ment are vital for reducing our environmental impact and reduce environmental impact and to lower actual purchase ensuring sustainable development. Waste management costs. Relations with our suppliers are characterized by procedures are an integrated part of our operations. high-level business ethics, objectivity and professionalism. Through our agreement with a waste contractor, we can Relacom’s purchasing policy requires that all our suppli­ both reuse and recycle waste generated by our operations. ers comply with our code of conduct. We only work with The same requirements and procedures for handling waste suppliers who meet our stated requirements concerning also apply to our subcontractors. quality, environmental impact and ethical guidelines. Switching to a Greener Car Fleet Beginning in the spring of 2017, Relacom launched an exten­ sive vehicle exchange programme affecting essentially its entire service fleet, or approximately 240 cars in total. By the time the upgrade is completed in the summer of 2018, 95 per cent of the fleet will meet the latest Euro 6 emissions standards. The upgrade will not only give Relacom a top-modern fleet, but also the best environmental performance available. The company also has a strategy in place to further reduce environ­ mental impact by optimizing its vehicle sizes. More than that, the new fleet will also provide a better working environment for our employees and reduce company costs. 14 Relacom’s qualification process for contractors also includes feedback being provided to the customer via area managers accepting a code of conduct. The code is based on inter­ in our production unit. national agreements regarding human rights, employment relationships, corruption, the external environment and Follow-up & Measures for Increasing Customer Satisfaction sustainable development. All Relacom suppliers must like­ We believe that dialogue with our customers is the corner­ wise comply with these same requirements, so that they are stone for developing our business. aware of our expectations. One example that supports our approach is a project in which Customers Relations we developed the concept of “robust fibre” together with oper­ To create and maintain a world-class business, a compa­ Minskat ators, contractors våra National Post and Telecom and Sweden’s ny must understand and satisfy its customers’ needs and Agency (PTS).flygresor The project included the following aims: expectations. Relacom focuses on establishing a close dialogue with its customers and suppliers through recurring Increase knowledge about fibre plants and how to build meetings in which needs and expectations are identified. them. Our customers expect Relacom to actively pursue quality Describe and claim an acceptable level of space for a assurance and sustainability, including reducing our environ­ robust fibre plant. mental impact, ensuring a safe workplace and being socially Ensure that industry stakeholders apply the results. responsible. Our customers also expect the same of our Define industry-wide concepts and terminology. suppliers and contractors, and we monitor our collaborators’ Lay the foundation for certification procedures where compliance with their requirements. Supplier follow-ups by competence will be ensured by contractors and their our customers increased in 2017, both in the form of field staff. visits to our project sites and document audits. We welcome this and appreciate that customers verify and confirm our Relacom holds the no. 4 business certification under the sustainability efforts. robust fibre initiative and is also certified in inspection, training and fibre technology. Relacom has not identified any instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of Another successful example of leveraging dialogue is found in our products and services. our cooperation with our largest customer, in which we use Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a tool to monitor how they rate their Relacom is very well aware of the importance of our customers’ suppliers. Our customer provides feedback to our suppliers secrecy. We have therefore implemented procedures to ensure on how they networked and how the end-customers rated the that customer data is handled safely. Our efforts resulted in no collaboration regarding the construction and deployment of public reports of lost customer data in 2017. mobile networks, indoor coverage and no-place communications platforms. Relacom AB holds a top ranking in all of these areas, Process for Handling Customer Complaints providing proof that our processes work and that both our attitude Customer complaints registered within a predefined period and expertise meet their expectations. At our peak, we achieved a are analyzed and monitored in accordance with the agree­ score of 71 on the NPS scale for one of the product segments. ments signed with our customers. Follow-up takes place at recurring progress meetings for each customer agreement. Safeguarding Personal Data & Integrity In addition to this, a few spontaneous complaints are hand­ Safe and reliable information is vital to Relacom’s success led by our Relacom Customer Center, with measures and in achieving its business goals. Our customers, suppliers and employees depend on receiving the right information at the right time. Information security refers to the protection of information and information systems. Efforts to ensure information security should be preventive and, as far as possible, lead to the elimination of shortcomings in privacy, accuracy, accessibility and traceability. We are since 2016 certified by The Swedish Post Did you know? and Telecom Authority (PTS) to build quality fiber networks (Robust Fiber certification). 15 Relacom Sweden Relacom Sweden Smart Charging Stations for Electric Cars The need for a well-functioning infrastructure for charging electric and plug-in hybrid cars is increasing as more and more electrified vehicles come into circulation. As part of the Swedish government’s Climate Leap (Klimatklivet) programme, Relacom has implemented several projects concerning electric car chargers for tenant-owners’ associations in the Stockholm area. The charging stations installed are quite advanced, with features such as cloud-based debit systems and active distribution of the available power to individual charging boxes. Charging stations for electric cars is a good example of a project that brings Relacom’s business areas together, combining the company’s expertise in power, telecom and the Internet of Things. Smarter Fibre Rollout Using Microtrenching Relacom has now begun using microtrenching instead of traditional digging with excavators to lay fibre in several fibre rollout projects. Compared with other methods, microtrenching is a much faster and less disruptive way to install fibre in residential areas, for example. Instead of digging a shaft half a meter wide and deep, with the disruption to accessibility, environmental impact and time expenditure that this entails, microtrenching requires a groove only a few centimetres wide in which to lay fibre. Once the work is complete, the groove is easily re-filled with asphalt, with no risk of sinking. Some major advantages for residents in affected areas are thata driveways can be used immediately, there are no excavated materials to take up valuable space and the use of heavy vehicles for excavation and loading is kept to a minimum. Microtrenching also makes installing fibre 2–3 times faster, reduces CO2 emissions by 75 per cent and affects only one-tenth of the land area compared with traditional excavation. 16 Relacom Norway Relacom Norway Relacom Norway provides services in telecommunications, The Environment Matters power and the Internet of Things (IoT) and has a nation­ Customers, public authorities and the community can rest wide presence and coverage. The company is headed by assured that we work consistently to ensure our operations General Manager Leif Salomonsen. Relacom Norway is ISO have a minimal environmental impact. By adopting a long9001:2015 and ISO14001:2015 certified. term approach and showing respect for the environment, we both help create an attractive workplace and help our customers achieve their sustainability targets. CEO Relacom Norway did not note any instances of non-compliance HR, Quality & in connection with our products or services, nor environmental Finance & IT Communications protection or work-environment legislation. Sales & Marketing Supply Chain Our Employees Relacom views its employees as both a resource and a competitive advantage. In September 2017 we carried out an employee satisfaction survey with the support of Great Fixed Wireless Services Power Place to Work, which revealed Relacom’s strengths as an & Nodes employer as well as areas for improvement. The results of the survey showed that our employees believe Relacom’s strengths to lie in creating a strong work environment characterized by inclusiveness, collaboration and a sense of community. The results also showed that CUSTOMERS National, regional and transnational our employees feel that management both trusts them and entrusts them with significant responsibility. 17 Relacom Norway Digitalization & Community Development in Oslo We are very proud that the results show that many of our employees feel that their work is special to them; that it is more than “just a job”. The areas for improvement identified in the survey were better internal communication and a continued focus on increasing and developing our leaders. These areas are now being addressed by both senior management and individual department managers. TABLE 4. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE AND GENDER G4-LA1 a 2017 <30 31–50 >51 Total Women 3 2 0 5 Men 45 13 6 64 Total 48 15 6 69 Relacom is among the contractors assisting Telenor in rolling out and greater interaction. This is an important digital boost for Currently, digital communication infrastructure in the muni­ high-speed fibre to large parts of the Norwegian capital, Oslo. Oslo and involves an upgrade to both capacity and security. cipality varies in quality. Many locations are connected via The customer commissioning the project is the Municipality of The facilities covered by the roll-out include schools, nursing old lines with only limited data capacity. Development of Skills and Competence Oslo, one of Norway’s largest employers with approximately homes, municipal institutions and district administration Our goal is for our organization and employees to be constantly 50,000 staff. offices. In all, the project involves rolling out fibre to approxiThe development underway will enable both a higher level of developing. We develop competences through internal resources mately 1,200 access points. Relacom is proud to assist with effective embedded communication and an increase in the use of who provide on-the-job-training and internal training courses. We By the spring of 2018, all public buildings in the project the development of around 550 of these points. The system digital services. Fibre has a high capacity and once it is installed, also undertake external training courses from time to time. area will be connected to new and modern communications we are connecting includes backup on 4G LTE mobile netlocal businesses and households will eventually be able to take technology, ensuring more efficient information exchange works, which gives customers a high level of uptime. advantage of the high-speed fibre already laid in the area. Relacom Norway is currently implementing a new competence mapping system aimed at enhancing our competence planning. The initiative will give each manager a solid tool for planning, mon­ itoring and documenting development in his or her department. Sub-sea Fibre Cable to Hovedøya Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) A vital feature of any great workplace is promoting a sound work environment and employee safety. Our overall objective As part of Oslo Municipality’s is to avoid any workplace accidents at Relacom. All near digitalization project, a sub-sea misses must be reported and any improvement measures fibre-optic cable has been laid required must be implemented. across the Oslo Fjord from Vippetangen to Hovedøya. We also aim to reduce our aggregate number of sick leave cases to below five per cent. Achieving this goal places The cable is part of a major particularly stringent requirements on management and upgrade and further ensures the means that every single employee must contribute. During efficient development of fibre 2016, we developed an app to simplify the reporting of all and mobile networks around the near misses and work accidents by our employees. As a islands in the inner Oslo Fjord. result, we successfully increased our reporting in 2017. We follow up the results of these reports by holding a quarterly Oslo Municipality runs several HSE campaign for our employees that targets the most municipal services on Hovedøya, common accident type. We believe that this will help reduce including Oslo Sjøskole (Oslo near misses and work accidents in the future. Maritime School) and Maritim Driftstjeneste (Maritime OperaWe also held HSE days during 2017 to train our employees tions). in safety measures for height work, first aid and risk assess­ ment. We also analyzed our company culture in relation The new cable came online on 30 to safety during the year to gain an overview of areas for January 2018. Tourists and visiimprovement. A range of initiatives have since been started tors to the island will also benefit Cargo ferry ships based on the findings of this analysis. from the upgrade as the mobile crew and equip­ment network improves. over to Hovedøya. Achieving our goals in the fields of health, safety and the (Photo: Pål Hammersmark) environment is of the utmost importance in making Relacom 18 19 Relacom Norway a safe place to work and, as a result, also an attractive well-functioning system for collecting and delivering waste partner for customers, suppliers and public authorities. and returns. The same requirements and procedures for handling waste also apply to our subcontractors. TABLE 5. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS G4-LA 6 a Relacom is a member of Grønt Punkt Norge – a company 2017 2016 2015 that works to reduce the environmental impact of packaging Injuries* 35 29 16 – and is thereby committed to upholding corporate social Work-related accidents 0 1 0 responsibility in this respect. resulting in death Days lost due to work-related 550 547 428 Our Customers accidents Establishing and maintaining a solid business involves Sick leave as a percentage of total 5.56 5.22 5.85 understanding and satisfying customers’ requirements and work time** expectations. Relacom does this by maintaining a running dialogue with our customers and actively responding to their *Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave needs. We perform CSI measurements monthly by sending **Average for the entire year text messages to our customers. Our overall result for 2017 was a score of 7.1 out of 10. Climate To protect the environment from carbon-dioxide emissions and Rapid Handling of Customer Complaints reduce our costs, we focus on achieving an annual average To ensure deviations are handled systematically, Relacom reduction in our vehicle fleet’s fuel consumption of five per Norway uses a deviation management system that ensures cent, adjusted for sales levels. Relacom has also focused their registration and follow-up as well as a response and heavily on reducing travel over the past year by increasing the future preventive measures. number of digital meetings it holds. We also work with a travel agency to better track our travel patterns and more clearly Confidentiality is very important to our customers. We under­ identify areas for improvement. stand this, and so have implemented strict procedures to ensure the safe handling of customer data. As a result, no instances of Environment customer data misuse were recorded during 2017. Relacom Norway provides products and services that meet the environmental requirements of our customers and society Protection of Personal Data and Integrity at large. These products and services are constantly being Relacom seeks to protect individuals’ personal privacy and improved to reduce energy consumption and environmen­ integrity. Relacom Norway is therefore currently adopting tal impact. Our intention is to hold our suppliers to the same internal measures to ensure that we follow the EU’s new environmental standards as we impose on our own operations. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will Relacom is also working to develop energy-efficient products introduce new privacy rules in Norway in 2018. Our efforts and services, but currently has no revenue to report in this area. include reviewing internal routines and systems related to privacy and assessing risks and privacy implications. New Our environmental focus areas: measures and systems will be implemented in line with the Reducing the pollution caused by our vehicles. new legislation beginning in May 2018. Managing our waste in accordance with local authorities’ requirements. Collaboration with Suppliers Given consideration to and showing respect for our Our relations with suppliers are characterized by strict surroundings when planning and implementing work business ethics, objectivity and professionalism. Relacom’s assignments. purchasing policy requires that all our suppliers comply with Being conscious of the importance of the natural environ­ our code of conduct. We only collaborate with suppliers ment and historic sites and their surroundings and being who meet the quality, environmental and ethical guidelines vigilant in avoiding causing damage to them. laid out in our policy documents. This means that all of Using electronic storage media instead of printing on Relacom’s suppliers are evaluated before any collaboration paper. begins. Supplier evaluations are based on references and Holding digital rather than physical meetings when practical. customer satisfaction, their financial stability, business Taking all environmental complaints seriously and doing systems, delivery service and support. our utmost to rectify any damage and ensure that such situations do not recur.. At Relacom, we believe that close, long-term cooperation with our suppliers ensures better quality and profitability. Relacom Waste regularly follows up our key suppliers’ performance to identify Waste management considerations are an integrated part of where improvements can be made. In signing a cooperation our operations. Through our agreement with a waste agreement with Relacom Norway, all our suppliers commit contractor, we can both take advantage of and recycle to following our code of conduct and to complying with both waste generated by our activities. Our waste-related Norwegian and international laws and regulations regarding environmental goals mean that all facilities must have a human rights, HSE, child labour and more. 20 Relacom Denmark Relacom Denmark Relacom Denmark’s operations are markedly smaller than company where employees feel at home and want to those in the other Nordic countries and also differ in nature. develop together. This situation requires working together to drive our core TABLE 6. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW business through a challenging development process in EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER which growth is of prime importance. BY AGE AND GENDER We have not noted any instances of non-compliance regarding G4-LA1 a work-environment, environmental, or product and services 2017 <30 31–50 >51 Total legislation. Women 0 0 0 0 Men 1 4 0 5 CEO Total 1 4 0 5 TABLE 7. STAFF MOBILITY Support & G4-LA 1b Group Functions 2017 2016 2015 Total staff turnover 34.5 46.4 38.6 Telekom Office/IoT Orbion Preventive Work Environment Relacom aims to be an industry leader in employee safety, satisfaction and dedication. A safe and pleasant work environment lets our employees develop and deliver high-quality services to our customers. Relacom always prioritizes its employees’ and customers’ health and CUSTOMERS safety. We strive to achieve our goal of reducing work­ National, regional and transnational place accidents, with even one accident being one too many. The foundation for achieving this goal is following legislation and rules. Relacom is also certified according Our Employees to the OHSAS 18001 standard, which means that we Relacom is a service company, making our employees our have a constant and elevated focus on safety and the most important asset. Our goal is to be an attractive employ­ work environment and are obligated to continue improving er who draws skilled personnel to itself and a in these areas. 21 Relacom Denmark TABLE 8. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS Climate G4-LA 6 a We made one major stride in preventing climate change 2017 2016 2015 in 2017 when we decided to move our offices from a large building with a high level of energy consumption in Taastrup Injuries* 3 6 2 to a smaller and more energy-efficient premises in Glostrup. Work-related accidents 0 0 0 It is expected that these new premises will have a positive resulting in death effect on our energy consumption for heating purposes. Days lost due to work-related 29.5 13.4 4.5 accidents Additionally, they are also being fitted with LED lighting systems that will further reduce power consumption in the Sick leave as a percentage of total 2.9 3.2 3.0 work time** building. *Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave We have also taken important steps to reduce travel related **Average for the entire year to meetings, including installing solutions for online meetings with external parties, such as customers and suppliers. For Denmark’s environmental and occupational safety daily internal work meetings, we use the online tool Microsoft and health objectives: Lync (video, instant messaging, telephony). These measures Reduce absences due to sickness. help significantly reduce the number of trips we take and Reduce serious accidents. reduce our environmental impact. Reduce overtime. Reduce power used The goal of reducing the environmental impact of our (as measured in kWh consump­tion). products and services affects our entire operation. We aim Reduce fuel consumption to find solutions that are both good for the environment (as measured in CO2 consumption per kilometre). and that benefit our customers and employees. Health and safety, energy and chemicals, and waste are focus areas and Systematic Efforts to Improve our Work Environment are continuously being improved and followed up on using A healthy working environment aids business development, specific KPIs. By showcasing Relacom’s efforts to promote promotes physical and psychological well-being, helps motivate sustainability, we believe that we are sending an important employees and encourage their personal development, signal to the market, our customers, our suppliers and con­ improves quality of life and contributes to greater work safety. tractors and, not least of all, to our employees. Relacom systematically improves its work environment through regular surveys, implementing improvement measures and Waste following up on the status of our operations. Doing so helps us Both waste minimization and responsible waste manage­ prevent illness and accidents in the workplace and creates a ment are vital for reducing our environmental impact and better working environment for everyone. ensuring sustainable development. Waste management procedures are an integrated part of our operations. Work environment considerations include the physical, Through our agreement with a waste contractor, we can technical and psychosocial conditions that are important for both reuse and recycle waste generated by our operations. creating a good working environment. Managers and The same requirements and procedures for handling waste leaders work together with staff to achieve well-functioning also apply to our subcontractors. Our ambition is to ensure and satisfying solutions. that all waste from our own operations is recycled at as high a rate as possible. All our places of business have recycling Relacom Denmark is significantly smaller than Relacom’s stations for waste. divisions in the other Nordic countries, which means there is also less distance between its management and employees. Contractor / supplier control It is the managers in each department who handle develop­ We evaluate all suppliers considered critical to our business ment talks of their own employees. These same managers at least once a year. The evaluation is based on recorded are also responsible for ensuring that training and safety events and deviations as well as any certifications they may courses are up to date. hold. Systematic Environmental Work Customer Relations Relacom Denmark’s environmental work follows the Customer satisfaction is assessed continuously through­ requirements listed in the ISO 14001 standard and is out the year based on the audits we are subject to and on integrated into its business management system. All work complaints and expressions of appreciation we receive from related to environmental issues in everyday operations is our customers. The process we use to manage customer managed by Relacom’s management team and supported satisfaction is built into our management evaluation process centrally by Relacom’s executive. Our executive makes and is reviewed four times a year. sure that our environmental protection measures are being applied. Our environmental work not only influences our Achieving and maintaining world-class operations requires own operations, but extends to cover our subcontractors both understanding and satisfying customers’ needs and and suppliers, also. expectations. Relacom focuses on maintaining a close 22 dialogue with its customers and suppliers through regular meetings where needs and expectations are identified. The Danish Childhood Relacom is also aware of the importance our customers place on privacy. To this end, we have implemented procedures to Cancer Organization ensure that customer data is handled in a safe manner. Relacom Denmark A/S continues to support the DanOur customers are very satisfied with our efforts, as evidenced ish Childhood Cancer Organization, as it has done by the fact that Relacom Denmark A/S received Huawei’s CIAG since 2014. Hero Award in 2017 and several times received an A-grade in external customer audits. Besides this recognition from Huawei, The organization supports the families of children EcoVadis also assessed Relacom Denmark’s CSR work and, with cancer as well as research into the disease. It for the second year in a row, awarded us gold-level recognition, also works to improve people’s knowledge about putting us among the top five per cent of businesses evaluated. cancer and the consequences for families when a child contracts the disease. More details are available here: www.boernecancerfonden.dk/ EcoVadis Award In 2017, EcoVadis presented Relacom Denmark A/S with an award for the best CSR performance in the Construction category. The organization gave awards to companies that achieved the highest score in their geographic region (Europe, Americas, AMEA) or industry category in 2016. This was the second year running that EcoVadis gave Relacom Denmark A/S gold-standard recognition for its CSR efforts. CIAG Hero 2017 Relacom Denmark A/S was awarded the CIAG Hero Award by our customer Huawei in 2017. CIAG stands for Consistency of Inventory, Accounts and Goods, and was given as a symbol of Huawei’s great appreciation for our accuracy in delivery and logistics. Huawei audited Relacom Denmark six times in 2017 in the areas New Build and RAN Build, awarding the company an A-grade five times and a B-grade once. 23 Relacom Finland Relacom Finland Every day, Relacom Finland works to ensure that both Relacom Finland Oy is a technology services company national and business-critical infrastructure and systems that operates nationwide in over 50 locations. We help our function reliably. Our diverse expertise covers telecommuni­ customers to benefit more fully from their investments in cations and energy networks, IT onsite services and device networks, systems and devices. We are one of Finland’s lifecycle solutions. As part of the international Relacom leading industry players in building, installing and maintaining Group, the company’s accumulated experience and techni­ ICT networks and systems. Relacom provides a natural link cal expertise are unique and have become significant com­ between technology and its users. petitive advantages compared to other service providers. Safety & Well-being at Work All of Relacom’s operations in Finland are carried out in CEO accordance with the international occupational health and safety management standard OHSAS 18001. Support & Group Functions We have adopted a holistic approach to occupational well-being that includes competence, structure, conditions and the workplace community. A good working environment Telecom ICTN Power Orbion aids business development, promotes physical and psycho­ Services logical well-being, motivates employees and supports their personal development, contributes to greater work and traffic safety and improves overall quality of life. We continued to promote occupational well-being in 2017 by organizing online sessions related to well-being that CUSTOMERS National, regional and transnational were open for all employees. For managers, we also offered 24 TABLE 9. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW In 2017, we introduced an online HSEQ application that EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER enables employees to effortlessly and immediately record BY AGE AND GENDER safety observations on site using a mobile phone or computer. G4-LA1 a Each accident and safety observation is processed and used for educational purposes. We also trained our em­ 2017 <30 31–50 >51 Total ployees to appreciate the importance of safety observations Women 3 8 4 15 and encouraged them to communicate about safety at work. Men 51 54 47 152 Our efforts paid off, since employees reported more than Total 54 62 51 167 twice as many safety observations in 2017 as compared to the previous year. We also observed a noticeable decrease TABLE 10. STAFF MOBILITY in accidents at work, with the number of accidents in 2017 G4-LA 1b falling by almost half compared to 2016. 2017 2016 2015* Total staff turnover 1.5 1.9 1.0 TABLE 11. SAFETY DETECTION * The organisational changes made involved redundancies. Safety detection 2017 2016 2015* Total 194 87 50 an additional resource discussion model with a company healthcare provider. This gave our managers an opportunity to confidentially discuss any concerns about their team members’ We use Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) as a measure well-being at work with healthcare specialists with a view to of work-related injuries, which is the standard method used preventing ill health. in Europe. The measurement period is a rolling 12 months, in which the number of accidents leading to three or more We have also agreed on a number of well-being policies and days of sick leave are considered. In 2017, we managed practices in cooperation with our workplace representatives. to lower our LTIF rate to eight. Our ultimate goal is to have For example, the Relacom Way prevents inappropriate zero accidents for every million hours of work. The rate of behaviour and unequal treatment. Together with a local absence at the close of 2017 was 3.5 per cent. whistle-blower function, it ensures that all our employees can draw attention to any kind of grievance or failure they TABLE 12. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS might notice. G4-LA 6 a Our regular employee surveys help us focus on the most 2017 2016 2015 important developmental issues concerning our personnel, Injuries* 13 22 31 since we strongly believe that each and every employee has Work-related accidents 0 0 0 a valuable role to play in fostering well-being in the work­ resulting in death place. We did not identify any cases of non-compliance with Days lost due to work-related 358 108 230 laws or regulations regarding the work environment in 2017. accidents Sick leave as a percentage of total 3.5 3.6 3.7 Preventive Work work time** Relacom Finland employs a far-sighted occupational health and safety model; we view safe work practices as the only *Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave way to work effectively and to deliver high-quality service **Average for the entire year to our customers. We draft a comprehensive action plan for occupational safety each year and are committed to following it systematically. Relacom always prioritizes its Number of Safety employees’ and customers’ health and safety. The com­ pany’s occu­­pational health and safety organization includes Observations Doubled eight employees. In 2017, Relacom Finland introduced a HSEQ application Our Occupational Health and Safety Committee met four that enables employees to effortlessly and immediately times during 2017. The Occupational Health and Safety record safety observations on site using a mobile phone or Group also met ten times and actively monitored trends in computer. We also trained employees in the importance absences due to illness and the frequency of accidents. The of safety observations and encouraged them to communiGroup also held six occupational health and safety briefings cate about safety at work. Our efforts paid off, since Relafor managers. These briefings aim to highlight important ar­ com employees more than doubled the number of safety eas related to occupational health and safety that managers observations they recorded in 2017 as compared with the need to take into consideration with respect to their own staff previous year. We also observed a noticeable decrease in group. They always address general reports on sick leave accidents at work. The total number of accidents in 2017 and work-related accidents, occupational safety instructions fell by almost half compared to 2016. and topical issues related to occupational health services. 25 Relacom Finland Reliable and Competent Partner Reducing Our Environmental Impact Our stakeholders are entitled to trust that we perform our Our ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certifications meet the latest services with the highest level of competence, safety and requirements. We also regularly conduct quality, security and ethics. We meet their expectations by employing people code-of-conduct audits with external partners that include with diverse backgrounds and cutting-edge expertise and environmental aspects. In 2017, we also performed internal are committed to ensuring that our employees work for environmental audits in four locations. The proposed changes customers in the agreed manner, since they promote the that resulted were discussed with our property and line corporate image of our customers when carrying out assign­ managers. The audit results were also reported on our ments at end-customers’ business premises or homes. intranet. Everything we do starts with people. Since skills requirements We are constantly considering new ways to reduce the in our industry are continuously changing, we need to update carbon dioxide emissions caused by our operations. In 2017, our employees’ know-how on a regular basis. At the same we implemented a large production-vehicle upgrade project, time as we adapt to meet these changes, we also need which replaced nearly two hundred cars, or 70 per cent of to ensure the continued sound management of earlier the entire fleet, with safer, more environmentally-friendly and technologies. cost-effective vehicles. While the average emissions for one fleet car in 2016 totalled 6,868 kilograms, the figure for 2017 In addition to external training, our experts and specialists was reduced to no more than 6,028 kilograms. In addition also train our employees and managers internally in different to this project, we also encouraged our staff to use video processes, work methods, systems, instructions and guide­ conferencing services and online tools for meetings and lines. Managers and others are also kept informed through promoted opportunities to work remotely. short briefing sessions related to employment matters, safety and well-being at work. We organized a total of 1,767 Waste management procedures are an integrated part of our training days during 2017. operations. Thanks to our agreement with a waste contractor, we can both reuse and recycle waste generated by our To ensure we meet our customers’ competence requirements, operations. We have continued to successfully reduce our our managers conduct annual performance and career reviews unsorted waste volumes by providing clearer recycling with their staff. Each employee’s personal development targets instructions, through training and by auditing our offices, for should be closely linked to the company’s annual plan and be example. In 2017, we reduced unsorted waste from 23 per based on the modified balance score card for each employee. cent to 21 per cent of our total waste. The performance and career review rating for 2017 was 74 per cent overall. We also continued our efforts to reduce the amount of paper purchased throughout the organization. We instructed our Relacom Finland also received a corporate social responsibility personnel to avoid unnecessary printing and encouraged (CSR) award in 2017. EcoVadis, which specializes in classifi­ them to favour two-sided printing by highlighting environ­ cations and tools for measuring corporate responsibility in mental aspects and impacts. To date, we have managed to supply chains, judged Relacom Finland to be the best example cut our paper consumption from 8.6 tonnes to 2.4 tonnes of CSR in its industry category. since 2011. We did not identify any cases of non-compliance with environ­ mental laws and regulations in 2017. Environmentally Relacom is working to develop energy-efficient products and friendly vehicles services, but for the moment we have no revenue to report. Relacom implemented a vehicle upgrade project in Customer Relations 2017, replacing almost two hundred vehicles (70 per We believe that Relacom’s approach of combining reliability and cent of our production fleet) with safer, greener and competency provides unique advantages for our customers. more cost-efficient models. When it comes to resourcing and providing managed services with different skills requirements, our goal is to find the optimal It is expected that our upgraded fleet will reduce fuel solution for our customers and to commit to developing the and maintenance costs over the next five years comsolution continuously. We are also known for our flexibility and pared with projections for the old fleet’s consumption fast response times. We can provide managed services with and in relation to the number of cars in use today. four-hour service level agreements nationwide, or alternatively, on-site resources for our clients to manage. For example, the average total carbon dioxide (CO2) emission produced by a car in our fleet in 2016 was We measure customer satisfaction specific to each agreement 6,868 kilograms, whereas the corresponding figure for and on two levels, including end-customer satisfaction and 2017 was only 6,028 kilograms. contracting party satisfaction. The methods we use for customer satisfaction surveys differ according to the customer’s agreement. 26 Nevertheless, the same basic elements of identifying the level of customer satisfaction and, even more importantly, monitoring trends in its development, are key to successful customer relation­ ship management. Based on several multi-industry customer and end-customer agreements, Relacom Finland has found that both parties’ needs for analytical customer-satisfaction data are best met by co-developing the satisfaction survey in close co-operation with the customer to suit their strategy. In 2017, Relacom Finland’s end-customer satisfaction score was 9.1/10 for installation and 4.4/5 for maintenance. Relacom Finland Recognized for Its Corporate Social Responsibility Work EcoVadis, which specializes in classifications and tools for measuring supply-chain responsibility, presented Relacom Finland with an award as the most sociallyresponsible company in its industry category. EcoVadis analyzes a company’s performance on the basis of 21 corporate social responsibility (CSR) criteria divided into four themes: the environment, fair labour practices, ethical conduct and fair business practices, and supply-chain quality. Its assessments are based on international CSR standards, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, the UN Global Compact initiative and the ISO 26000 standard. EcoVadis ranked Relacom Finland as a gold-level company, an achievement matched by only five per cent of all companies. 27 Relacom Finland Partner satisfaction for the same period was 3.9/5. We are working well. In 2017, we organized eight EFQM work­ follow up on these results on a monthly basis as part of our shops across the organization. The result was 137 develop­ ISO 9001-certified management system and as described in ment measures for implementation related to our business our management system documentation. units. In total, 77 per cent of the identified measures were successfully implemented in 2017. Customer and end-customer information security is a top priority. Although we have not identified any non-compliance ICT and Network Services was audited in 2017 and received with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of a four-star excellence rating. The evaluation was carried out products and services, we will start the certifcation process by seven external evaluators assigned by the Finnish Quality of our information security management systems according Center during the period June to August. ICT and Network to ISO 27001 in 2018. Services’ results were clearly above average, especially regarding customer outcomes and processes, products and The Relacom Way Ensures the Quality of Our Services services. In fact, we ranked among the top ten companies in Our role as a critical service provider is closely linked to Finland overall. In all, more than 40 employees from ICT and sustainability. We ensure that all the services we provide Network Services business units participated in the evaluation and the materials we deliver comply with the specifications process. agreed upon with our customer. Likewise, we are constantly developing our operations and products to meet our customers’ EFQM has strengthened cooperation within the company. It future expectations and requirements. This also involves the has enabled our employees both to understand our business systematic development of our quality system – the Relacom better and to develop our operations in a more holistic way. Way – in cooperation with our personnel. Relacom did not identify any instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of Feeling Good Through our products and services in 2017. Helping Others We are working closely with employee representatives as part of the on-going development of our policies. Feeling that your efforts have been an important help to others is guaranteed to put you in a good mood! In All our major suppliers are screened by means of our procure­ 2017, Relacom offered its employees in Finland the ment policy. opportunity to give their own “good mood” present during the summer by using part of their workday to EFQM Model Delivers Great Results help a charity of their choice. Relacom employees Relacom Finland continued to use the EFQM Excellence contributed to a great community atmosphere and Model to define our current level of excellence, involve our helped their neighbours by donating blood, supporting employees in developing our operations on a broad scale the youth department at the local fire brigade, assisting across the organization, and to identify where we need to wheelchair user and helping elderly people with house improve our efforts. cleaning. All our business units regularly organize EFQM workshops for our managers, specialists and technicians to identify and prioritize development areas, but also to highlight areas that Opportunity for Food for Low-Income Children to Explore Families Our Workplaces Relacom donated the funds reserved for its corporate Relacom Finland took part in the Take Your Children Christmas greetings to the “Hyvä Joulumieli” Christto Work Day event last November. The purpose was mas Spirit fundraising campaign, which provides to involve our children and give them a voice while food vouchers for families in need. Organized by the benefitting from their innovative ideas. During the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare and the Finnish day, the children of Relacom employees had the Red Cross, the campaign aims to increase public opportunity to get to know their parents’ workplace awareness about poverty among families with children, and colleagues. The children could also enjoye fun since one in ten Finnish children live in families with low activities, such as drawing. The event was a very incomes. This year, the fundraising campaign provided positive experience for our children and employees food vouchers for 30,000 families in need. alike and we plan to hold it again in the future. 28 About this Report About This Report This sustainability report encompasses all companies and Explanations and limitations: markets within the Relacom Group.The report aims to provide a transparent account of our sustainability work Work environment: Includes health and saftey. during 2017. ICT: Information and Communication Technology IoT: The Internet of Things is the inter-networking of Organizationally, the Relacom Group is s to a certain extent physical devices, vehicles, buildings and other items decentralized, which means that its various companies operate OHSAS: Occupational Health and Safety according to national and local circumstances and with some ISO 9001: International Standard Organization for Quality measures of independence. Some of our core areas are Management managed centrally (Relacom Group). As a result, this ISO 14001: International Standard Organization for Environ­ report is organized into the following chapters: Relacom mental Management Group, Relacom Sweden, Relacom Norway, Relacom Finland and Relacom Denmark. G4-10: Reports according to our annual report. All employees who work more than 60% count as full-time employees. The report is based on the guidelines for sustainability Relacom has no employees working less then 60%. reporting issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). G4-EC1a: For the economic value distributed, see our annual report. This is the Relacom Group’s sixth report issued in accord­ G4-LA1b: We only report employee turnover in percentage ance with the framework of GRI’s guidelines. and not by gender and age, we report in accordance with internal procedures. Our first report was published in 2012 and followed the GRI G4-LA6a: We do not publish statistics on the gender distri­ G3 guidelines. Our previously report according to GRI G4 bution due to high male representation in the workforce. was published in November 2016. G4-33: We do not seek external assurance for this report. Contact information anders.bylund@se.relacom.com Phone: 46 8–553 900 00 29 GRI Cross Reference Index # GROUP Indicators Page Strategy and analys G4-1 Statement from CEO 2 Organizational Profile G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9 and G4-10 3–4 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 100% G4-12, G4-13, G4-14, G4-15 and G4-16 5–6 and 29 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21 7–9 G4-17, G4-22 and G4-23 4 and 29 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 G4-25, G4-26 and G4-27 7 Report Profile G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32 and G4-33 29 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 4 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10 # GROUP SWE NOR DEN FIN Category/Aspect Indicators Page Economic Economic Performance EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 3 n/a n/a n/a n/a Environmental EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Compliance non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 5 n/a n/a n/a n/a laws and regulations “Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, ad­ Grievance 5 n/a n/a n/a n/a dressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Revenue of Energy Efficient Services n/a 14 20 22 26 Social LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee Employement n/a 12 19 21 25 turnover by age group and gender Occupational Health LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and n/a 13 20 22 25 and Safety absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Training and Education and career development reviews, by gender and by employee n/a 13 19 22 26 category SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Compliance non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regula­ 5 15 17 25 26 tions” Overall Product Responsibility PR5 Result of Survey measuring Customer Satisfaction n/a 15 20 22 26 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Customer privacy n/a 15 20 22 26 of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Compliance laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 5 n/a n/a n/a n/a and services 30 RELIABLE AND COMPETENT 31 © Relacom April 2018 www.relacom.com
