2018 Communication on progress For a better World SOLYSTIChaslongbeen awareofitssocial,societal andenvironmentalresponsibilities. This eighth COP is a new opportunity to report on our actions in respect of our commitments and is intended for all stakeholders (current and future employees, new recruits, suppliers, customers, industrial partners, etc.). This year, we have opted to present various initiatives which actualise 5 of the 10 UN Global Compact principles. Though not exhaustive, they portray our vision and the way we act on a daily basis. This enables us to better demonstrate the diversity of our actions. This COP also provides a forum to hear feedback from stakeholders who have worked alongside us. Those who are accustomed to reading our COPs will recognise continuity in our actions and our commitments. First-time readers should feel free to review our previous COPs. You will learn about how our approach is guided by long-term interests and continuous improvement. Happyreading. Formoreinformation: www.unglobalcompact.org/ what-is-gc/participants/ 8682#cop 02 Thekeyphasesofourapproach TableofContents ISO 9001 1st CSR policy and 02 Good to know Northrop Grumman 04 Edito certification 1st Carbon assessment 1st Ecovadis Business Ethics 1st external assessment charter CSR diagnosis and updating of the CSR policy 05 SOLYSTIC’s presentation 1995 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2016 2017 06 Our CSR commitments 08 Chapter 1: Human Rights Membership Updating of the Carbon 10 ISO 14001 of the Global assessment and certification Compact the Sustainable Chapter 2: Procurement charter Labour Standards New Northrop Grumman Business Ethics charter, 12 Chapter 3: 1st Sustainable Environment Procurement charter 14 Chapter 4: Business ethics 03 Edito Dear Mr Secretary-General, SOLYSTIC decided to embrace and support the values of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2009. I am pleased to confirm and reiterate our commitment to support and promote the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our action in favour of human rights, good working conditions, protection of the environment and fight against corruption is fully in line with my vision of SOLYSTIC. A clear vision expressed to SOLYSTIC’s employees and within our sphere of influence, customers, partners, suppliers and all our stakeholders. For SOLYSTIC, respecting the principles of the Global Compact is more than a simple commitment. It is to adhere to a social model based on mutual respect and dialogue. It is to share “For SOLYSTIC, our values and to commit to continuous progress and improvement the respect of the Global within transparency. Compact principles This annual communication is the testimony of this commitment. is more than just As President and CEO, I have made it my priority to implement a commitment.” this policy on a daily basis and to involve all my staff. Pierre IGOU  I am proud that SOLYSTIC, through its support, helps to further President and CEO the initiative launched by the United Nations. Yours sincerely. Pierre IGOU President and CEO 04 SOLYSTIC, solutions and services  for the post and parcel industry SOLYSTIC is a French subsidiary of the Northrop Grumman group that designs, manufactures and maintains mail  and parcel equipment throughout their lifecycle. The SOLYSTIC solutions used by the key French  3 activity centres and international postal and logistics operators (25 countries, 5 continents) make it possible to: Bagneux • adapt the process to market (head office) developments and opportunities, • remain competitive while preserving high-quality service, • improve working conditions Bourg-lès-Valence and respect the environment. (industrial site) The company leverages on simulation  Kontich (Belgium) and modelling tools to provide customers  (service expertise centre) with innovative and tailor-made solutions such as: • automation of mail sorting and large formats, with the XMSTM 91.4% machine, allowing the preparation of the postman’s tour, optimisation of the overall process and adaptation to changing flows, 500+ employees • automated sorting of e-commerce flows, with parcel sorting equipment integrating IT systems, address recognition systems €102 M on indefiniteterm contracts and SolyTM mobile robots to prepare delivery, 2017 sales • spares supply, maintenance, support services. 6 % of the sales 2.7% of payroll dedicated dedicated to R&D to training 05 OurCSRcommitments AsasubsidiaryoftheNorthropGrummangroup,SOLYSTIChasadoptedmany Measuring oftheGroup’sCSRcommitments.However,giventhespecificbusinessandcountry contextofthecompany,wehavealsodevelopedsomeCSRcommitmentsofourown. ourperformance andprogress As part of our drive for continuous improvement, we regularly submit our CSR approach to ECOVADIS for assessment. ECOVADIS is an independent organisation which measures our CSR performance. Four themes are analysed: the environment, social policy, business ethics and sustainable procurement. Respecttheinterest Attract,retainanddevelop Reduceourimpacts The result of this assessment ofcustomersandendusers highlyskilledstaff • Prevent all forms of pollution is transmitted to all interested customers on request. • Offer high-quality products • Guarantee safety and security, • Reduce our waste and service preserve health and improve the quality and consumption Sinceourfirstassessment • Innovate to meet customer needs of life at the workplace in2013,wehavealways • Combat climate change receivedaGoldstatus,i.e. • Advocate diversity and equal • Purchase responsibly and locally opportunities thehighestlevelofrecognition. • Respect human rights • Organise constructive and high-quality This year, we received an overall and sell with ethics social dialogue rating of 73%.This ranks us at an “advanced” level amongst the top 3% • Ensure pro-active management of the most high-performing suppliers of our talents and promote agility Formoreinformationabout of the thousands of companies theNorthropGrummangroup’s assessed. CSRpolicy: Thisresultistherecognition www.northropgrumman.com/ CorporateResponsibility/Pages/default.aspx ofourcommitmentandthe culminationofourefforts andthegoodpractices implementedonadailybasis byallouremployees andpartners. 06 Ourcontribution toSDGs TheSustainableDevelopmentGoals InterviewwithFrédéricSANDT, (SDGs)cameintoeffectinSeptember QSSE Director at SOLYSTIC 2015andareaglobalcalltoaction toendpoverty,protecttheplanet Whatistheconnectionbetween of Human Rights, working conditions, andensurethatallpeopleenjoypeace theCSRapproach,theCOP environmental protection and the fight andprosperity.Forthegoalstobe andtheSDGs? against corruption. With the Global Compact, reached,everyonehasaroletoplay, SOLYSTIC’s activities have always been SOLYSTIC and its CSR approach, can take governments,businesses,associations firmly embedded in an approach advantage of a community that shares andeverydaycitizensalike. that places strong emphasis on respecting our good practices and the pride its customers, employees, partners of contributing to the UN initiative. and the environment. It has been organised The SDGs allow us to further enhance by relying on ISO 9001 certification since our contribution by incorporating 1995 and ISO 14001 certification since 2007. new concerns and base our actions In 2008, we commissioned an external on shared and global goals. They provide consultant to carry out a diagnostic study a common language to companies of our corporate social responsibility. and give new impetus to the CSR. We entered a new phase in 2009 by joining the UN Global Compact and by committing “The SDGs bring HowcanSOLYSTICcontribute to promoting its ten principles with totheSDGsviaitsoperations? a common language our employees and partners. SOLYSTIC contributes to 10 of the 17 SDGs. to the companies At present, although the CSR approach This COP gives examples of 8 of these, and new impetus is deeply rooted within the company’s such as, wellbeing at the workplace (p.8), departments, the publication of the COP continuing education (p.10), staff to the CSR ” is an opportunity to take a step back, employability (p.11), responsible design measure the progress made and agree and production (p.12) and the fight against on the next goals to be achieved in terms corruption (p.14). 07 Human Rights Principle No. 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. SOLYSTIC operates from France and Belgium. Given its business model, the company  15 meetings of one  is not directly exposed to Human Rights issues. Since 2017, the company management and a half hours = has initiated the ATLAS project to improve working conditions and foster well-being and the quality of life at work. This approach takes shape in particular upon  1.350 hours Micro-zoning  dedicated to microzoning of the tertiary area: the company’s relocation project from the historic site in the Bourg-lès-Valence  of the industrial halls city centre to a new site close to the Valence TGV train station in the Alixan municipality organisation of (South of France). workshops, 4 x ½ days, i.e. 1.050 hours 1 2 3 Collaborative work Fostering communication  Well-being at the workplace and interaction One core aim of the ATLAS project Coincident with the ATLAS project, many is to improve interconnection between Special consideration has also been given employee services have been established the tertiary and industrial areas. To this end, to the provision of lounge areas, to the canteen on the Bagneux site. the architects suggested the creation as well as various working and meeting of a covered “pathway”. This pathway For example, SOLYSTIC signed a partnership spaces. with Babilou to reserve nursery places was enhanced by a central patio that opens outward and lets in additional natural Employees will have access to small areas for employees. According to this agreement, lighting. The project methodology also where they will be able to hold interviews the nursery may be located close to the fostered collaborative work. or telephone calls without being disturbed, workplace, the home or on the commute. as well as conference rooms fully equipped In addition, a fitness centre accessible to all In order to involve employees as early as with the latest digital tools. A “silence” room employees, and partly funded by the Works possible in the project, over 130 volunteers will also be available if they want to have Committee, has been set up in the Aristide from all departments in the company worked a soundproofed area to concentrate. building. Finally, the development of together to conceive and propose the layout Coffee corners furniture will be conducive an intercompany mobility plan made and adjustments to help define the microto discussions and interactions between staff. it possible to incorporate sustainable zoning. Workshops were conducted An outdoor garden with a vegetable patch development. both for the industrial and tertiary areas and a boules ground will also be accessible in order to closely meet the needs to all. Showers will also be installed for of the various teams. employees engaging in lunch time workouts. 08 8 Anenvironmentally“In addition to reﬂecting SOLYSTIC’s friendlysite modernity and ambition, this site Theenvironmentalfootprintwas will allow employees to live addressedfromthedesignstage and work together under better ofthesite.In order to limit the building’s conditions.” energy consumption and its CO2 RaphaëlVALLEE emissions, glazing panels were Chief Financial Officer and Information System Director installed on the industrial section ATLAS Project manager and skylights were built to maximise natural lighting. Special focus was also given to insulation. The materials were selected to take InterviewdeRaphaëlVALLEE, Whatstructurehaveyouputinplace both on the progress of the project intoaccountthecarbonimpact Chief Financial Officer and Information tocarryoutthisproject? and the choices made, as well as gathering and paints were chosen to prevent System Director.ATLAS Project manager questions or concerns. The dedicated email We have composed a project team with thespreadofvolatileorganic address is a good example of an instrument 4 employees from various departments compounds(VOC). Whatareyourpriorities? of dialogue with employees. including a full-time project leader. Furthermore, the new site is located The relocation to the Alixan site is a major This person is supported by a project Whatobstacleshaveyoufaced? in the Rovaltain economic development sign of the company transformation. The first management assistant experienced area, closetotheTGVtrainstation, goal is to create a modern building in line Relocating the work premises is a major in this type of relocation and an architectural which allows for more convenient with SOLYSTIC’s image. We would like cause of concern in any company. Special firm specialised in collaborative working employee mobility, especially between to reflect the innovation that is the driving attention must be paid to any resistance environment. The executive committee the two French sites. In addition, force behind our teams. In addition, we would and fears expressed. To this end, specific composed of 6 SOLYSTIC managers the mixed development zone requires like each employee to be proud and happy monthly meetings with the CHSCT makes decisions upon proposal from green space zoning of 35% for the site. to come to work each day. Finally, our desire (Committee for health, safety and working Therefore, the site will feature many the project team. is to bring SOLYSTIC into the 21st century conditions) and a monthly update with green areas withlocalspecies Whatarethekeysforsuccessful the Works Council and the managers by developing collaborative workspaces andrespectforbiodiversity. achievementoftheproject? have been scheduled. and bringing agility to the crosscutting Finally,thesite’sgoalistoobtain aspects between the production and tertiary Change management, transparency We must also ensure that all employees the“BreeaminUseniveauGood”* sectors. In addition, we are putting our and internal communication are the major are heard and that a reply is given to each certificationforitsenvironmental Corporate Social Responsibility into action ingredients for success. Communication question asked and that no aspect is neglected, approachfromdesignto via environmentally friendly technology. and dialogue throughout the ATLAS project whether it is directly related to the project operation. are the key tools for getting the teams or associated therewith (commuting time, * Certification of the environmental performance involved, providing them with information food, archiving). of industrial buildings. 09 Labour Standards Principle No. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. SOLYSTIC’s teams work in a highly-changing international market. The transfers of SOLYSTIC 76 of growth between letters and parcels and the digitalisation of the sector require staff received responsible anticipation of these industrial changes. This is obtained by developing % training  jobs and anticipating the skills which will be required for tomorrow. Developing staff in 2017 employability is therefore a major priority in order to ensure the sustainability of jobs and the performance of the company in the long term. Accordingly, SOLYSTIC  has initiated an ambitious training plan as well as various actions in association  100%  participation in the with the educational community and its industrial ecosystem in order to adequately Happy Trainees survey respond to changes in skill requirements. 1 2 3 Continuing education  Staff employability Development of an ecosystem for employees of skills Some low qualification trades are undergoing SOLYSTIC has an ambitious training policy considerable changes due to digitalisation In order to meet its recruitment and trade geared towards developing staff and the introduction of new technologies development challenges, SOLYSTIC partners employability. As a result, for the past three in the equipment. In order to ensure the long term with educational facilities and research years, the company has invested 2.7% of the sustainability of these jobs, SOLYSTIC initiated laboratories. Accordingly, it has developed annual wage bill each year. a collective VAE action (Validation of Acquired partnerships with the Grenoble Institute Experience) in the Drôme area (France) with support of Technology, CentraleSupélec and École The strategic priorities include enhancing from local authorities. As a result, 7 employees, des Mines of Saint-Etienne in order to promote new segments skills and supporting digital selected on a voluntary basis, who work as cable trades and job offers. Special emphasis is placed transformations. Some of the training fitters, inspectors and technicians will be able to on the assignments entrusted to students programmes conducted for staff include: validate Bac Pro MELEC (vocational qualification during their internship and their working design ergonomics, machine learning, agile for electricity trades and trades related to its conditions and integration. The ratings given methods as well as tailored coaching and connected environment) or BTS Electrotechnique by these trainees to the national “Happy training sessions for managers in addition (vocational qualification for electrotechnical trades). Trainees” survey – 4.42 out of 5 – is the best to team building and project development. Solid assistance has been provided to give these recognition of this policy. SOLYSTIC also supports employees the best chances for success: pre-training assessment, individual motivational interviews, and sponsors students in their technical support from GRETA, additional training sessions community projects such as the Robotics cup and immersion within departments to complement organised by CentraleSupélec. The company’s the knowledge and skills to be developed, in-house involvement is also demonstrated through tutoring in project management, work schedule its participation in forums, visits to schools or arrangements and provision of dedicated connected the integration and then hiring of a PhD student spaces, co-reading of the deliverables and preparation from the LITIS in Rouen on the theme “Cohorte of their presentations before the examination de réseaux de neurones récurrents pour committee. The employees taking part in la reconnaissance de l’écriture” (cohort the programme believe that “it was hard work, of recurrent neural networks for hand-writing but it was worth the effort”. recognition). 10 VirtualmachineSOSi™ SOLYSTIC’sengineersdesign softwareapplicationsforquick decisionsystemsthatprocess upto40,000lettersperhour andtheinformationfrom3,000 sensorson70metreshighmachines. “SOSi™ is the symbol of responsible While they monitor technological innovation: it enhances productivity, developments, they are also responsible improves working comfort for employees for disruptive technologies. Accordingly, in 2009, after installing a new machine and reduces travel time during installations.” in Germany, which required 6 months ÉricDAYMIER of night work, the team completely Head of Applications and Services Development Department reviewed its working methods so that it would never have to repeat that experience. Rather than solving bugs on site InterviewwithMarie-PierreHOMBERG, teams. However, this level of response talents, origins and different worlds. during the installation, wedesigned Director of Human Resources must be combined with other approaches. The SOSiTM solution is a good example avirtualsortingmachinetotest We have also implemented specific projects of this, we were able to innovate and take oursoftwareapplicationsinrealWhatareSOLYSTIC’sHRchallenges? by taking into account the job pool of our a significant lead over competitors time. Further to many benchmarks Following the decreasing volume of letters Bourg-lès-Valence facility, the positions by hiring a gamer. and attempts, we invented SOSi™. and the development of e-commerce and skills of the people. One such example To this end, we integrated new talents resulting in a substantial increase in parcels, is the collective VAE initiative that we have Whatbenefitsdoyouseeinthevarious into the team from the video game actionsinitiated? our core business as a manufacturer undertaken with support from the Auvergne world. The following year, we developed the first virtual machine that we are of postal equipment has developed towards Rhône-Alpes region and the GRETA. We have been successful because constantly improving. Five years later, the sale of solutions and logistics. In today’s all the stakeholders of our projects fast-changing environment combined Whatarethekeyfactors have a common interest in this success. we almost never go on site and we have ofthesuccessfulimplementation eliminated the bugs subsequent with the digital transformation, the skills Employees develop, they are valued to the installations. Our involvement of our teams must also evolve quickly. ofthesepolicies? and more employable, the territory in the Minalogic competitive cluster This requires anticipation as these skills Without question, the first one is safeguards jobs and sustains skills allowed us to present SOSi™ to experts must be learnt. the willingness and motivation transformation and lastly, the company and toreceivetheirfeedback of our employees to learn new things enhances its efficiency, attractiveness andanexternalperspective Howdoesyourtrainingpolicy and to challenge themselves in order and productivity. It also builds pride as a means of comparison and allowyoutomeetthesechallenges? to develop their practices and customs, and gives tangible expression to its values. as well as to be challenged. SOLYSTIC I firmly believe that our first responsibility in particular with new technologies. is currently developing partnerships is to develop the skills of our staff before As with any change project, you need with renowned industrial manufacturers hiring new ones. The training policy that to maximise the chances of success in order to test SOSi™. The goal we have validated with the representative and provide enhanced support to is to introduce the solution into various bodies is therefore geared towards strongly the individuals involved. Finally, I think environments such as the management of material ﬂows in the industrial sector. developing the employability of the current that it is necessary to open up to other 11 Environment Principle No. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle No. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. The spirit of innovation and research driving SOLYSTIC’s teams, have led us  to regularly improve our machines and place environmental constraints amongst  “Extending the service life of a sorting machine our key concerns. Accordingly our design reviews focus on reducing the quantity is the most responsible solution for reducing of electronics, dismantling assistance for our customers and the selection  the environmental impact of our customers of raw materials and inks. Environment and economy combine seamlessly to provide new solutions: repairability, extension of the machine service life as well as reduced activities.” dependency on our suppliers, efforts to combat part or component obsolescence,  Jacques PETIT  et cetera. Product Manager 1 2 3 Machine design Machine repairability Machine maintainability As part of the SOLYSTIC’s climate action The quantities of mail to be sorted Extending the service life of machines plan, our engineering teams consistently work have decreased with the development goes hand-in-hand with their updates. on making machines more energy efficient. of electronic mail. Furthermore, This serves to incorporate new features A research programme launched in 2014, the characteristics of the current mail as well as update the characteristics in connection with the research tax credit, are very different from those sorted with of the sorted parcels (handling of open recently made it possible to replace machines installed in the 2000s for example. magazines, thin letters, etc.). The catalogue servomotors comprised of brushless motors of new features offered focuses on 6 key and electronic variable speed drives with Against this backdrop, our customers are areas: increasing the flow, processing clutches and breaks paired with mechanical constantly seeking reinvestment solutions. quality, improvement of component elliptic gears on the XMS™ machines. To this end, SOLYSTIC has developed a policy accessibility or repairability, the characteristics This has two main impacts for the environment: centred on improving and extending of sorted mail as well as the new features. it decreases energy consumption and there the useful life of their installed solutions. are less electrical and electronic waste Each repairability project is combined Therefore, a machine whose service life with a technical update contract (e.g.: upon dismantling of the machine at the end is initially ten years, may have its life of its service life (258 speed variation boards replacement of the boards, computer updates, extended up to 15 or 20 years based software updates, etc.) and the integration less per machine). Moreover, this made on the updates performed. Besides it possible to avoid the risk of obsolescence of new features. This approach enhances the economic interest for our customers, our environmental gains and provides of the electric variable speed drives. this is a good way for us to reduce This innovation was achieved with equivalent our customers with new services while the footprint of our products and preserve generating strong savings for them. processing quality (stacking and damage) natural resources. and noise levels. 12 Eco-citizenoperation AsapartneroftheRecyclage EcocitoyenAssociationand ofESATIRISinBobigny (93,France),SOLYSTICtook partinthe“usedpaper 2tons forexercisebooks”initiative. Through this initiative, over a hundred exercise books were provided of recycled paper =160 to the teaching staff of the Joliot-Curie notebookmanufactured preschool in Bagneux last November. Theseexercisebooksweremade InterviewwithTonScheermeijer, In2016,youdecidetoupgrade replacing it. SOLYSTIC replaced obsolete bycollectingmorethan2tonsofpaper Senior Advisor Operations Strategy, LSM*,whatwasthegoal? parts with new parts and we also added fromourfacilityovera9-monthperiod, PostNL, The Netherlands new features such as new grey scale cameras Our main goal for this upgrade was to extend viatherecyclingofofficepaper. to improve the read rate. This will allow us SincewhendoyouuseSOLYSTIC’s the life of the machines until 2023. Acutely aware of environmental issues, The availability of spare parts was guaranteed to use the machines for an additional five machinesandareyousatisfied? to eight years. There were also some the teaching staff of the Joliot-Curie until 2015, especially for some computer school conducted a school project We have been using these letter sorting other options but we didn’t select them parts such as desktops, cameras, etc. in 2016 focused on wastage, waste machines since 1997. First we bought as they weren’t cost effective. There was really a chance that the parts and waste recycling. The exercise 60 letter sorters because of the increase become obsolete. A second goal was books are a tangible illustration of mail volumes and later in 1999, 21 extra Areyousatisfiedwiththequality to improve the read rate of the address for children of how waste recovery machines, so we bought a total of 81 such oftheupdateofthemachines? by using better images. works. With regard to SOLYSTIC machines. At first there were some problems The machines are functioning with the same employees, this is also a good way due to the 200 m long mail transport, DoesSOLYSTIC’ssolutionmeet performances as before the upgrade which to contribute to the circular economy but when SOLYSTIC solved it we were really yourexpectations? was very important for us. Furthermore, that is increasingly being mentioned satisfied with the machines efficiency. the new features are very effective. nowadays. It should be noted that this The proposed solution meets our needs. After about fifteen years of use, we decide initiative also reﬂects our local presence We were satisfied with the letter sorters. to add extra photo cells in delay line and involvement as well as a dialogue SOLYSTIC came up with a solution that would to improve the tracking. with the local stakeholders. allow us to upgrade the machines without * Letter Sorting Machines 13 Business ethics Principle No. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Although SOLYSTIC is not subjected to the Sapin 2 Act (on transparency, the fight against corruption and modernisation of economic life), for the past several years it has been active in the fight against corruption and conflicts of interest. The company benefits in this area from the group’s devices  All and its commitment. In the many countries where SOLYSTIC operates, its customers are governments, post offices or private companies. Depending on the market, it may call on intermediaries or business providers. The company’s economic model also requires taking into account upstream risks  in the context of relations between purchasers and suppliers. At present, these risks are controlled SOLYSTIC employees by over 10 years of actions and awareness raising initiatives. received training 1 2 3 Preventing conflicts of interest Ethics training Open Line In order to prevent conflicts of interest, Every year, SOLYSTIC’s employees receive Open Line is central to the Code of Ethics some 120 employees have had to reply business ethics training via an e-learning and the efforts to combat corruption. to a dedicated questionnaire. These people module. The content is selected during This tool can be used by all Group employees, are on the front line and come into direct the annual Ethics officers’ seminar. regardless of their country and entity, contact with customers (sales representatives, in order to anonymously or identifiably report business managers, etc.), suppliers The 2017 training session focused on 4 key breaches to the business Ethics rules. or intermediaries (purchasing or quality areas: trust and respect, compliance with department). anti-corruption laws, compliance of imports The reasons for the call can relate to 18 topics and information security. This last area such as harassment and discrimination, The questions include themes such was an opportunity for employees to become Human Rights, irregularities in the tender as business gifts, shareholding in aware of how important it is to comply with process or control of imports. Each reported a subcontractor’s company and confidentiality. confidentiality rules at a time when the GDPR event gives rise to an impartial investigation Each questionnaire is signed by the employee has entered into force. The training material by the Group’s legal teams and must not and proofread by the Ethics officer. is tailored to the group’s context and provides result in reprisals or sanctions. The answers may give rise to an internal employees with simulation exercises. audit in order to check the statements or a more thorough investigation by All of SOLYSTIC’s employees have received the group. As a valuable complement this training. to the training provided, this measure is properly understood by each employee and helps to reduce potential conflicts of interest. 14 Sustainable “I could have chosen purchasing policy to only be a letterbox but I opted for a more As regards corruption, the profile of the company’s customers and responsible approach.” the countries in which it operates Anne-Marie DEVORNIQUE  involves certain risks for the field Business Conduct Officer sales team. For many years now, SOLYSTIC management, with support from the group, has established a sales policy and strict sales rules. Therefore, some countries are Interview with Anne-Marie DEVORNIQUE, in their business relationships, the security to as an ethics allegation), I help to resolve clearly prohibited and some contracts Business Conduct Officer of information in the event of corruption, the problems. I act in conjunction with line or calls for tenders are assessed harassment, discrimination as well as management, personnel representative in order to validate their regulatory What are your duties and how did you the security of exports and imports. bodies or trade unions. Ethics is often and ethical conformity before making become the Business Conduct Officer? Every year, all teams receive Ethics training the last line that an employee crosses, a proposal. The sales team via an e-learning module regarding but it has an additional weight. My view is accustomed to implementing As a Business Conductor Officer for the themes implemented by the Group. is to act with integrity to foster communication these processes. the Bourg-lès-Valence site, I receive questions Any employee who detects a situation and anticipate conflicts within the interest from employees and provide an immediate that he or she considers to be unusual of the company and employees. Ethics has According to Maurizio Puppo, Strategy reply or pass on the questions at Group-level or who has a question may either contact many similarities with quality, audit or even and Business Development Manager, if I am unable to do so. To this end, I have our Open Line or contact me directly. management control. Whenever deviations this is an excellent opportunity. “This been given a number of tools and a dedicated prompts us to be genuinely attuned The employee may choose to remain are detected, we analyse and we find solutions management system. I carry out this to customers’ requirements, to establish anonymous. He or she may decide to convey to handle the problem. assignment independently of line management human relationships based on skills the information or request that it be reported authority and report to the Ethics Director and confidence, and to always behave to the Group. In any case, I pass on What advice would you give a company of the Group’s technical services sector. in a professional manner. This is I have held this position for 11 years at the information and sometimes I take that is just beginning its ethics journey? demanding on a daily basis however direct action to resolve the situation. See the issue as an opportunity. SOLYSTIC. I know the company well it pays off as the customers acknowledge as I have worked in the quality department, It is an opportunity for employees to be able our expertise”. He goes on to add: How do you view your duties  to react anonymously and officially to a situation in the studies division and in the intellectual “I believe that eventually this will be as a Business Conduct Officer? that they consider to be unusual or wrong. property division. an element of our brand and therefore I could have chosen to only be a letterbox, This allows for greater productivity an asset that makes us stand out How exactly does the process work? but I opted for a more responsible approach. and efficiency. from the competition”. The approach Besides recording the questions or ethics is the same in the purchasing The code of business conduct (or code allegations in the system (a situation reported department in terms of the relationship of Ethics) covers all matters related by an employee and which will be subject with suppliers. For example, business to business Ethics. These rules clearly specify to an independent investigation is referred gifts are prohibited. the behaviour that employees must display 15 Head office 152 160 avenue Aristide Briand CS 80013 92227 Bagneux Cedex FRANCE Tel. +33 (0)1 49 08 41 00 solystic.com ginette. 10/18. Photos : imag&tagada, Archigroup, JC Vaillant, all rights reserved, Shutterstock. For more information: contact.rse@solystic.com
