UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress FOREWORD 20 September 2018 Dear All, For our third update report I am pleased to confirm that Verisec AB continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we present some of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles. By the very nature of our business we support public accountability and transparency. Therefore we commit to reporting our progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely, Johan Henrikson CEO Verisec AB 2 INTRODUCTION Sustainable and responsible business is important for Social sustainability is at the core of Verisec business. By proviVerisec to be able to create long-term value for the ding secure digital identities we provide a secure means for company and our stakeholders. Sustainable business people across the globe to interact across digital channels according to our definition means integrating financial while maintaining a high degree of privacy and personal interesponsibility, social responsibility and environmental grity protection. Thereby we contribute to important social responsibility in all aspects of our business. structures and building new ecosystems. Using our technology we also enable increased welfare at reduced cost by allowing Verisec has been a member of the UN Global Compact for both local and central government to offer digital services many years and the ten principles of UN Global Compact (e.g. eHealth initiatives). Digitalization can also reduce corrupand its underlying conventions and declarations are always tion by automating processes. Identity and security related present in the company’s business. to these are core components to achieve these benefits. Verisecs mission is to manage digital trust by delivering innovaThe ten basic priciples of UN Global Compact are important tive solutions for digital identities. An app on your mobile deelements in the daily work of Verisec. We have policies regarvice for login, instead of a token you rarely have in your pocket, ding health and safety, business ethics, communications, brior a lot of passwords that are easily forgotten, is one example bery and rehabilitation for employees. The head office has, of how we operate in the area we call digital identities. among other things, moved to the central parts of Stockholm to facilitate for employees residing around Stockholm, to traVerisec’s goal is to work to secure identity management for vel to work in the most environmentally friendly way possible. businesses, organizations and individuals. In 2002, ten perAll employees have a health insurance, despite the fact that cent of the world’s population were connected to the internet. Sweden has subsidized healthcare. All employees are also Today there are over four billion internet users globally, which encouraged to use the health care contributions in the form measures up to 53 percent of the world’s population. During of wellness grants that the company is providing. Verisec has the same time, the number of hacking attacks has increased. also achieved a number of improvements to minimise the The World Economic Forum’s 2018 Global Risks Report listed company’s carbon footprint. cybersecurity as the third biggest global risk, topped only by environmental threats. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the Verisec operates globally. We are committed to ensure that protection of internationally proclaimed human rights we are not complicit in human rights abuses. If we were to within their sphere of influence. find ourselves implicated in abuses of human rights, we would take immediate steps to rectify the situation. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. To make sure that no harm comes to any human being, we are complying with the ISP (Inspection for Strategic Products, a government authority in Sweden), rules of export control and supervision of dual-use products, and classify our products according to the ISP Appendix I. All employees shall be treated with respect and dignity and be entitled to fundamental human rights. The freedom of expression of employees, customers and other stakeholders shall always be respected. Verisec has offices in seven countries SWEDEN | GERMANY | UK | UAE SPAIN | MEXICO | SERBIA Established 2002 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of All employees shall have a written contract, be informed about association and the effective recognition of the right to and fully understand their employment conditions and rights. collective bargaining. The contract shall as minimum contain: working hours, notice period, wages and frequency of payment. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. A normal working week is 40 hours, unless otherwise regulated in national legislation. Employees have the right to yearly PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. holidays and parental leave. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect All employees shall be free to form and to join, or not to join, of employment and occupation. trade unions or similar employee representative organisations. Verisec has a policy regarding the working environment and is responsible for work not to endanger the health or safety of employees and that the workplace safety in general is good. Verisec complies with the relevant laws relating to employment For example, in order for an employee to get appropriate traiand employment conditions in each country we operate in. ning to drive a truck in our plant, his supervisor needs to have We recognize that labour standards and conditions may vary a truck driver license. The supervisor’s supervisor, in this case from country to country. We ensure that our employees have our CEO, also needs to possess a license of the same sort. satisfactory wages, working conditions and that there is no exploitation of labour. Steps to correct and prevent physical accidents and injuries as well as psychosocial illnesses are being taken to limit hazards No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal in the working environment. There are various initiatives in age for employment. We place high demands on suppliers that our different offices, depending on local needs and requests we are in business with continously, to not take part of or in from our employees. Some of the measures we take to preany way support, any form of child labour. vent physical and psychosocial illnesses in the work space are giving our employees the possibility to exercise during busiVerisec offer equal employment opportunities to all. The persons ness hours, and benefit from a wellness grant. Workplace recruited are selected on merits and are not discriminated design provisions are also applied in all locations based on because of gender, race, origin, religion, sexual orientation, local regulations. Where such regulation is not available disability or age. To us, diversity is positive. Swedish norms form the basis of workplace design. Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary To manufacture a login token in China, transporting it several approach to environmental challenges; thousand miles and then manage and distribute it in Sweden, of course means leaving an environmental footprint. Verisec’s PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environeffort to develop security solutions that use the mobile phone mental responsibility; and as the login device, are to be seen as part of a reduced climate impact. We believe that the mobile phone of the future will be PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion the entity that most people use to securely connect to various of environmentally friendly technologies. services on the Internet and in line with this, the number of physical devices will be reduced. Our plant in Upplands Väsby is an important link. We have begun to reduce energy use in our distribution facility. In 2015 we invested in a more energy efficient heating /cooling system, and in March 2017 we changed our electricity supplier so that we are now consuming environmentally friendly sourced hydroOur business is to help other companies implement digitipower. Further, we have added heat blocking window films to zation. This means that our products and services reduce reduce the temperature in the building and thus saving energy or eliminate paper-based processes and physical transport. by relieving the cooling system. Letters and other documentation can, with our technology, be replaced by digital communication. Physical communication We signed a new lease agreement for the fourth floor in the can be replaced by digital contacts and our technology makes same building as our current office in Belgrade. Part of the it possible for people to work from home /remotely with less agreement with the landlord was installation of ventilation travelling as a result. systems on both floors for cleaning the air and improving the working environment for our colleagues. We only use printing shops that are environmentally certified, and always select paper that is FCS-marked and Rainforest Recycling is also a natural part in all of our offices across the Alliance Certified. world. Sorting paper, metals, foods and plastics is part of this ongoing project. We collect huge amounts of plastic bottle Verisec has invested in a system for remote meetings caps in our Serbian office to support the Bottle Caps for between our offices so that we can cut down on travel. Handicapped humanitarian initiative. We are also committed to the EU WEEE initiative to minimize the impact of electronic We offer employees to work from home as a step to waste. All our electronic equipment is being collected, reused reduce travelling and also the impact on the environment. and/or disposed off in accordance with EU regulations by Verisec strive to minimize environmental impact in all approved suppliers. parts of the business. The move to a refurbished plant in Upplands Väsby was a part of our efforts to streamline our We strongly encourage our employees to drive hybrid cars, processes and minimize the number of transports. and six out of seven leasing cars within the company are hybrid. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption Verisec has a policy on business ethics. Corruption does not in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. only create problems for the individual company, but also prevents communities from developing, especially in poor parts of the world. All forms of corruption, including but not limited to extortion, bribery, facilitation payments, nepotism, fraud, terrorism financing and money laundering, are forbidden. Digital payments and transactions – part of our core business, increase the traceability and thus prevent money laundering and other related forms of corruption. No one shall offer, ask for, give or accept, directly or indirectly, a personal payment, gift or benefit in exchange for favourable treatment intended to influence a business transaction or to obtain a personal or business advantage. Verisec has a policy that states that the principles relevant to business ethics is an integrated part of the business 7 About Verisec Verisec is a company on the cutting edge of digital security, creating solutions that make systems secure and easily accessible. The company provides a wide range of products and services within its two areas of business: Digital Identity and Information Security. Verisec has global distribution and operations in Stockholm, London, Belgrade, Madrid, Mexico City, Dubai and Frankfurt. Verisec is listed on Nasdaq First North Premier in Stockholm. www.verisec.com © 2018 Verisec AB. All rights reserved. 8
