SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 www.ebcobitar.com Reconstruction of Nahr El Bared Refugee Camp Izar Penrose Rawshe 1132 Pearl 1161 Olive Gardens M. Private Residence Jadra 117 Fiber Optics (Mount Lebanon) OSP Phase 7 Package 1 (Beirut & Mount Lebanon) Sour Mall OSP Phase 7 Package 4 More than (South & Nabatieh Province) Fiber Optics (Nabatieh Province) 357 projects to date since 1974 Current Projects Current Areas For Telecom Projects Executed Projects Executed Areas For Telecom Projects EBCO (BITAR): THE COMPANY MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO We seek to build strategic, long-term relationships with suppliers that are committed to continuous improvement in quality and dedicated to competitively pricing their products and services to us. We carefully select our clients, just like they select us. With our reputation at stake in every project, we are very selective about the clients we serve and we serve them best. Writing this letter brings me back to 1971, We care about the more precisely the day I graduated from the environment and the American University of Beirut, and to the community we live in. ambition of every young engineer to plant We believe that our company a seed and watch it grow. We have been in has a responsibility to give business over four decades and we started something good back from it based on honesty and integrity. Today, the fruits of our success. we are a construction company with over 100 employees and 1,000 daily labor force spread all over Lebanon. Our vision for the next five years is to expand our contracting services to other countries; we built a As I always tell the people around me, strong name back home and are equipped trust is the most important element for a and ready to penetrate other markets, as successful company. Leaders nowadays we did in Iraq. We are ISO certified since can no longer trust in power; instead, they 2007 and a member of the United Nations should rely on the power of trust. Global Compact initiative. By building trust, I know that we can move We are a family business and every closer to realizing our vision. employee is part of this family. We value our human capital and recognize that our company’s success is based on our Thank you, team’s ability to provide consistent quality Eng. Jalal Bitar performance. CEO at EBCO (BITAR) OUR VISION, MISSION & VALUES EBCO (BITAR) will expand its efforts to grow profitably in meeting customer needs today and in the future by OUR VISION continuing to build strong partnerships with our suppliers and foster employees’ engagement towards a sustainable future. EBCO (BITAR) is committed in building lasting relationships based on integrity, performance, value OUR MISSION and customer satisfaction. Our pledge is to meet the changing needs of our clients with our quality services delivered by the most qualified people. OUR VALUES SAFETY Safety comes first; the safety of our employees, subcontractors, owners, and the general public is our primary concern. Safety coincides with quality and is an integral part of our business. We are conscientious in our actions and provide a safe workplace. TEAM WORK We recognize our primary asset is people. To be successful, EBCO (BITAR) must be a rewarding place to work. We provide opportunity and encouragement to help our people reach their potential. We work with our clients and our suppliers as a team. Mutual respect provides the foundation for our success. INTEGRITY We remain true to our founding values of quality, honesty and hard work. We are committed to aligning our strategies with the United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour environment and anti-corruption. EXCELLENCE We are keen to offer the highest standards of service, quality, and personal attention to clients. We constantly challenge ourselves to be the best. OUR SERVICES PRE-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Overall project success relies heavily upon the decisions made at the initial stages. We ensure a good foundation for the project to deliver client’s objectives from the earliest point in the development process. Our pre-construction services include feasibility studies, site analysis, design studies and landscaping, value engineering, cost control and scheduling, procurement, constructability reviews and permit application. GENERAL CONTRACTING General contracting has been the essence of EBCO (BITAR)’s business since 1975. With our private and public sector projects, our pledge to our clients is to provide general construction services at the highest levels of integrity, safety and quality. Our areas of expertise comprise: Cultural & Educational Residential & Commercial Health Care Archeological CONSTRUCTION Telecommunication MANAGEMENT Infrastructure Construction projects involve subcontractors and suppliers, daily workers, materials, equipment, and services. Managing such operations from start to finish require an expertise in construction management, from handling the big process and negotiating contracts, materials management and warehousing, to field administration and maintenance of operations. EBCO (BITAR) X United Nations Global Compact COMMITTED FROM THE HEART EBCO (BITAR) has been recognized as an active member of the United Nations Global Compact initiative since 2011, making it the first Lebanese construction company and among the 20 first participants in Lebanon to be committed to the UNGC 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Proud Founders of Global Compact Network Lebanon The network brings together leading business and non-business participants to raise awareness on UNGC as a global corporate sustainability platform and to advance responsible business in Lebanon. The Lebanon Network creates opportunities for engagement, facilitating dialogue and learning in advancing issues of mutual interest and concern pertaining to sustainability. Our Managing Partner, Mrs. Nour Bitar, has been personally dedicated to this cause and always present in the regular meetings and events held by the local network as well as our Administration team. Our financial contributions and volunteering confirms our strong commitment to its values and strategies. Mrs. Bitar was elected as the Vice President of Global Compact Network Lebanon in October 2018. In October 18,2018 Global Compact Network Lebanon organized the 2nd edition of its Multi-Stakeholder SDG Forum to discuss and keep up with the latest trends and practices of sustainable development. The event took place at the Grand Serail under the partronage of His Excellency Prime Minister Mrs. Saad Hariri and Her Royal Highness Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden. We are working all together to achieve our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to help the GCNL mission in creating a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and market. OUR SDGs FOCUS SDG 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Decent work and economic growth is “achieving improved productivity and economic growth which provides employment for all in safe working environments, protected by labor rights” During 2018, striving for maintaining and enhancing our work environment was one of the main points in our SDG action plan. SAFETY MATTERS Everyone in the construction industry knows that the work can be inherently dangerous, with collapsing materials, falls and accidents involving heavy machinery all serving as legitimate threat. When an accident occurs, myriad problems can result; human life is put at risk, working days are lost, materials and equipment may be damaged. Many of the common construction hazards can be contained or avoided if proper safety measures are taken. Ensuring that everyone on site is following safety protocols protects the lives of each person involved in the work and ultimately allows the project to be completed on time and within budget. Our Occupational Health & Safety Manual is our most comprehensive health and safety guide. It’s a must-have for every member on site and helps recognize and protects the team against health and safety hazards. The procedures pertaining to the implementation of safety on site are also highlighted. Building a safety culture may have been the hardest challenge, in a country where health and safety of individuals is the least concern. The construction labor force in Lebanon is mostly of Syrian nationality where in their mindset they do not see any benefit of implementing safety measures; rather they feel it is uncomfortable to wear helmets and unnecessary to put safety belts. Today the Company employs more than 1,000 workers across Lebanon with a high turnover rate due the political situation in Syria. It is not doing things right, it is doing the right thing Nour Bitar 10’ Talk is a 10min safety and health awareness initiative launched in July 2018 where all site staffs gather once a week for a 10min to talk and raise awareness about a particular health and safety topic. The talk is administered by the Safety Officer along with the Foremen on site. This initiative created a positive environment whereby every individual feels the urge to report any unsafe condition on site. The idea of this initiative was given by our own Foreman Ali Chami. LEARNING & TRAININGS Strengthening our staffs skills is mandatory for a higher level of productivity, performance and motivation towards achieving our goals, for that reason, we always make sure that our employees are growing constantly and that their knowledge and skills are not stagnant, by providing trainings, workshops and coaching sessions. This year, we focused on offering the adequate right training to the right people; multiple trainings were offered: “Mental Candy” program delivered by Wydner Coaches is a coaching program covering multiple issues concerning communication, reducing stress and negativity. This training was offered along with a general meeting attended by all the company’s staffs as a chance to discuss the company’s objectives and goals for 2018. ETABS Software Workshop, the ultimate integrated software package for the structural analysis and design of buildings, was offered to our engineers to keep them up to date with the latest design softwares in the market. Proabled Workshop Enhancing Diversity Within Organizations -, This workshop shed light on the practices a company can adopt to make the recruitment process more efficient by employing loyal and committed candidates that despite their physical disability can be professionally able. We are currently finalizing our new performance appraisal system in order to plan an accurate new training program for the coming period. “Google Training” session was offered by Google team to our staffs at the Main Office; the training included an overview about Gsuite Apps and all features provided by Gmail, as an induction of our employees to Gmail usage. A CHANGEMAKER FESTIVAL The Changemaker festival operates at the intersection of education, youth, entrepreneurship and impact. The festival took place on the 7th, 8th and 9th of September in Beirut, Lebanon. It featured workshops, various competitions and panels targeting the youth. Global Compact Network Lebanon collaborated on this festival to raise awareness on the Sustainable Developmental Goals (SDGs). The 2018 Middle East Edition of the festival bought together 5,000 youth, 200 top decision makers, and more than 50 leading corporations to create broad-based partnerships that inspire action and deliver lasting and sustainable social change. The festival hosted the Hult Prize Finals where $250,000 of seed funding was awarded to startup. EBCO (BITAR) strongly believes in the importance of youth in 2030 agenda and its crucial role in achieving the SDGs. Eng. Wael Bitar joined the “Entrepreneurship is the answer?” panel discussing possible challenges that young entrepreneurs face today and the role of institutions in supporting these startups. Eng. Bitar advised the youth “don’t hide behind bad luck, work hard and be happy”. Many participants approached Eng. Bitar seeking for advice and guidance regarding their sustainability projects. The Company is currently in discussion with two promising sustainable projects to endorse for the year 2019. EMPLOYMENT AND HUMAN CAPITAL EBCO (BITAR) believes that providing fresh graduates a chance to get involved in the business market is a boost for the economic growth, dropping the high unemployment rates in our country that is unfortunately leading to a high emigration of educated youth out of Lebanon. EBCO (BITAR) joined AUB Job fair and IC job fair giving the chance of new internship programs and job opportunities for graduates and students. Over 70 interns coming from different university background were hosted by EBCO (BITAR) teams this summer, mainly divided between architecture, construction, design and MEP departments. Our aim is to provide them with the ultimate experience they can get and engage them in all the real life responsibilities of an employee. This is one of the many reasons our trainees request to extend their internship programs and most of them, if not all, end up applying for a full time position. We make sure that the certificate we grant our trainees at the end of their internship period is customized for each according to their attendance, evaluation, attitude and efforts. Our Internship Program is open year long, not only during summer. I’ve started as an intern and was given the chance to prove myself by being hired, the positive and encouraging environment of the company pushed me to give my best. Wassim Habash, MEP Department CORPORATE EVENTS Events and other activities are perceived to be very effective internal communication. They enable and foster interpersonal relationships and provide a great opportunity to network and to meet other colleagues. The Company has witnessed an improvement in motivation and working mood after events whereby employees regain their strength or fight the stress caused by daily working routing. June 07, 2018 Our Annual Dinner at Café Blanc Hadath one of our completed projects in 2017 Employees want to feel happy and engaged. We need to find ways to retain them. Yasmine El Tayeh, Human Resources Department SDG 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES As per the goal #11 of the agenda, we aim to provide safe and a sustainable city through road safety with a focus on sustainable urbanization and environmental impact. FIRST LEED CERTIFIED PROJECT LEED or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is the most widely used green building rating system in the world. Developed by the non-profit U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) Available for virtually all building, community and home project types, LEED provides a framework to create healthy, highly efficient and cost-saving green buildings. It is a globally recognized symbol of sustainability achievement providing independent verification of a building or neighborhood’s green features, allowing for the design, construction, operations and maintenance of resource-efficient, high-performing, healthy, cost-effective buildings. LEED is the triple bottom line in action, benefiting People, Planet and Profit. As the industry we work in makes us a major actor in the society in keeping a sustainable environment for the benefit of the whole planet, EBCO (BITAR) is currently executing Penrose Hall the first LEED certified project, located in the western part of the upper campus of the American University of Beirut the LEED certification. We are applying the required measures to achieve a high level of sustainability during the renovation, design and construction phases. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT RUNS IN OUR BLOOD We strive to develop and ameliorate life conditions of the communities we work in. EBCO (BITAR)’s presence spread all over Lebanon making it a priority to be involved with the people around us. We have a responsibility towards our country to make it a better place for living and leave a positive impact behind us. Tower crane assistance for lifting tanks and Rectification and Safe side walk for huge equipment for painting of school students buildings around adjacent the project buildings Assistance for school School bags exams for Community for children neighborhood Involvement students Road Planting safety trees signs Wood waste supply Provide distributed for people lighting for Cleaning of Ouzai in need in order to fight the streets beach area cold weather SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Striving towards making part of the achievement of the 12th SDG involves the efficient management of natural resources and the reduction of waste pollutant products. CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN In January 2018, EBCO (BITAR) kicked off its Construction Waste Management Plan (CWMP). The intent is to divert construction waste from disposal in landfills and incineration facilities, and to redirect recyclable recovered resources back to the manufacturing process and reusable materials back to appropriate sites. The practices for construction waste that we focus on include three key principles: reduce, reuse and recycle. EBCO (BITAR) has dedicated 5 storage bins/skips for separating: scrap metal, cardboard, plastic, wood and other construction waste materials such as concrete masonry and gypsum boards. Each bin is labeled both in Arabic and English. Beside 4 waste bins were dedicated for domestic waste generated by the construction personal: paper, glass, metal and plastic. An eating area was designated near the recycling bins for effective execution. Material Material Total Waste Diverted Waste Percent Diverted Description Type (kilograms) (kilograms) (%) Formwork Wood 11,945.00 11,945.00 100.00% Reinforcement bars Metals 15,044.00 15,044.00 100.00% Packaging Cardboard & papers 78.00 78.00 100.00% Demolishing waste Concrete 354,040.00 265,040.00 74.86% Plastic Plastic 500.00 500.00 100.00% RECYCLING IS OUR ROUTINE Recycling is the process of converting wasted materials into new materials and objectives. Noticing throughout the years that we have a huge usage of papers, we decided to jump into the recycling routine. The main office and all EBCO (BITAR) sites apply since 2014 paper recycling in the daily working life. All used papers are sent monthly to Association TERRE Liban responsible in recycling. The table below shows the amount of papers we have recycled. In fact, we saved 41 trees since 2013! Beside we are regularly encouraging our employees to reduce paper usage and turn our system to a digital one. 2014 815 Kg 2015 560 Kg 2016 710 Kg 2017 905 Kg SDG 14 LIFE BELOW WATER Protecting and conserving marine and coastal areas and ecosystems by reducing marine pollution, ocean acidification and over-fishing The Manara Lighthouse, located in the heart of Beirut City, replaced the old lighthouse, in service for 147 years, in 2003. This modern lighthouse stands over 60m tall. It displays two white flashes every ten seconds and features a lantern and an observation room. In July 6, 2018 EBCO (BITAR) launched the renovation of the new lighthouse in collaboration with the Lighthouse Keepers of Beirut, an NGO seeking to revive the lighthouses in Lebanon and enhancing the cultural heritage of the cities, and Global Compact Network Lebanon. This ceremony took place under the patronage of his Excellency PM Saad Hariri given its significance to Lebanon. The event was broadcasted live on several local TV stations and a memorable statuette was revealed at the entrance of the lighthouse. Mrs. Nour Bitar, Managing Partner at EBCO (BITAR), gave a speech during the event thanking all contributors in bringing the lighthouse back to life. Mrs. Bitar saw in this project an opportunity to raise awareness on the SDGs and the crucial need of partnership between private and public sectors for the better future of Lebanon. As this project is in partnership with the UN GCNL, it has been decided to try and enclose as many SDGs as possible. GCNL and LKB would like this lighthouse to reflect the colors of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). If we stick with red and while colors as approved by the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation, then instead of being red and white (what was approved) we will request to change the red to blue and on each white band to add the SDG’s Logo. www.ebcobitar.com
