Sustainability Review 2017 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Contents YEAR 2017 Responsibility throughout the property life cycle 3 Sponda briefly 4 Highlights in 2017 5 Chief Executive’s review 7 OUR APPROACH How we create value 11 Sponda’s value chain 12 Stakeholders 13 Strategy and priorities 14 Managing responsibility 15 Responsibility commitments 16 OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES Our responsibility priorities 18 The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities 19 Energy and environmental efficiency 21 CASE: Boosting recycling through co-operation 25 Property locations 27 RESPONSIBILITY CASE: Sponda Legends are admired far and wide 29 PRIORITIES P. 17 Enhancing the customer experience 31 CASE: A green multispace office for KONE 32 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Investing in employees 33 REVIEW P. 7 Transparent and ethical operations 35 CASE: Shopping centres at the forefront of city development 38 Taking the industry forward 40 CASE: MOW ushers in the future of work and Our aim is to lead the brings people together 41 way in responsibility KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX in the property The scope and principles of the report 44 sector. Sponda’s responsibility key figures 47 CASE MOW P. 41 Environmental responsibility key figures 48 Social responsibility key figures 55 Economic responsibility key figures 57 GRI index 58 Assurance 64 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 2 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Responsibility throughout the property life cycle At Sponda, responsibility spans the entire life operations can continuously respond to the At Sponda, we have properties in all stages The key is to maintain our capacity to create cycle of properties. The life cycle planning challenges presented by the changing opeof the life cycle. Some are under planning or responsible and sustainable spatial solutions. of properties starts from the design phase. rating environment. Where do people spend construction, some are at the beginning of their Flexible and energy-efficient buildings provide Sustainable development and strict environtime? How to bring new life to something that journey, and a significant number are centenaour customers with highly functional working mental requirements are integral aspects of is old, whether it is a neighbourhood, street or rian buildings that still retain their vitality and environments whose impacts related to enviSponda’s property design and development. building? How do materials and technology value. We have properties that we actively ronment and the comfort of the indoor environProperties play a major role in promoting susaffect the life cycle of buildings? In a newly built modernise, but also properties that we divest ment are as positive as possible throughout the tainable development in society as a whole, as property, environmental values must be conand leave their continued development to life cycle. In both new construction and renobuildings account for a large proportion of the sidered in the best possible way and negative someone else. In some cases, it makes more vation, our goal is to create healthy and safe world’s energy consumption and carbon dioxide environ-mental impacts must be minimised. sense to demolish an old property to create working environments, flexible and comfortable emissions. At Sponda, we aim to anticipate the Sustainable and responsible choices in the space for a new building. premises and buildings that retain their value. trends of urban development and the types of planning and design stages enable us to create businesses, residences and retail premises we environmentally friendly premises and reduce will be surrounded by. This ensures that our the impact on the climate. PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT THROUGH THE LIFE CYCLE NEW CONSTRUCTION MODERNISATION LAND AREA RENOVATION COMMISSIONING USE MAINTENANCE RENOVATION SALE PROPERTY ACQUISITION NEEDS AND WISHES DEMOLITION DEVELOPMENT OF THE RESPONSIBLE URBAN ENVIRONMENT CHOICES OF CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 NEW CONSTRUCTION 3 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Sponda in brief 57% SPONDA PLC is the largest property investment company OFFICE PREMISES in Finland. We are a forerunner in property investment, 89.6% an experienced property developer and a reliable and OCCUPANCY RATE 31% responsible partner for our customers. We own, lease and 67.1 SHOPPING CENTRES PEOPLE POWER develop office and retail properties and shopping centres INDEX IN 2017, A NEW in the largest cities in Finland. We develop operating OWNER TOOK OVER SPONDA’S SHOPPING 106 AND SPONDA WAS CENTRES CITYCENTER environments that promote the business success of DELISTED FROM THE AND ZEPPELIN ACHIEVED HELSINKI STOCK INTERNATIONAL BREEAM® customers. EMPLOYEES EXCHANGE. CERTIFICATION In 2017, Blackstone became the new owner; it is a renowned international investment company which makes us uniquely 99.7 M€ 3.9 bn€ 201.3 TOTAL VALUE OF PROPERTIES positioned to lead our industry forward. Until 31 December 2017, Sponda’s business units were Office Properties, ENERGY CONSUMPTION, PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS 1.2 million m2 LEASABLE AREA kWh/GROSS m2 Shopping Centres, Property Development and Property Investments. Starting from 1 January 2018, Sponda is 47% 3.93 44.3 organised into five business units: Office Properties, Shopping WASTE RECYCLING RATE ENHANCING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT KG CO2/GROSS m2 Centres, Property Development, Property Investments and CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Coworking Spaces. Information dated 31 Dec 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 4 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Highlights in 2017 NORDIC SHOPPING CENTER OF THE YEAR 2017 NEW OWNER MOW STARGATE SUCCESSFUL SHOPPING CENTRES SPONDA LEGENDS The most significant change for Sponda in 2017 Sponda’s coworking space concept was expanded Sponda’s shopping centres had a successful Sponda celebrated the centenary of Finnish was the sale of the company’s entire share in 2017 when the original MOW located on Pieni year in 2017. The Nordic Council of Shopping independence by opening the doors of its capital to Polar Bidco S.à r.l., represented by Roobertinkatu was complemented by MOW StarCenters (NCSC) selected the Forum shopping most prestigious properties in central Helsinki the U.S. based Blackstone Group. Following the gate in Ruoholahti. The changes in working life are centre as the Best Shopping Center 2017 to the public. Sponda owns several premium completion of the sale, Sponda’s shares were challenging both employers and office properties in the Nordic countries, making it the first properties that are even older than independdelisted from the Helsinki stock exchange on 5 by creating a need for flexible premises. Sponda’s Finnish shopping centre to win the award. The ent Finland but remain important elements of December 2017. The sale was one of the most MOW coworking spaces are at the leading edge Citycenter shopping centre celebrated its 50th Finnish business and working life, urban culture significant transactions in the history of Finnish of this trend by providing workspace for freeanniversary in modern style by opening and the future. property investment. Blackstone and its affililancers and teams from major corporations alike. a new food world with more than 1,000 ated funds manage more than a hundred billion MOW is also a sustainable choice, as its environsquare metres of floor space. In addition, both dollars worth of property assets internationally. mentally certified premises are centrally located Citycenter and the Zeppelin shopping centre with good transport connections. The MOW located in Kempele were awarded BREEAM® journey will continue in 2018 when the latest In-Use Very Good environmental certification. addition to the MOW family opens its doors in the Ratina shopping centre in Tampere. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 5 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX TIKKU & HELSINKI DESIGN WEEK THE MOST RESPONSIBLE COMPANY IMPROVED ENERGY EFFICIENCY CONTINUED STRONG ACTIVITY IN IN ITS SECTOR PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT It is possible to fit work and free time into a sinSponda improved the energy efficiency of its gle parking space. This was proved by Tikku, a Sponda continues to lead the way in international properties further in 2017. The comparable Sponda continued to develop its property micro apartment building designed by architect sustainability assessments in the property energy consumption of Sponda’s properties portfolio in 2017. The topping out ceremony of Marco Casagrande and constructed by Sponda sector. Sponda’s result was the best in Europe continued to decrease and was two per cent the new Ratina shopping centre in Tampere was in co-operation with Helsinki Design Week. As within its peer group in the Global Real Estate lower than in the previous year. The carbon held in May, and work on the office property on cities grow denser, it becomes necessary to Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) survey. The footprint was also reduced year-on-year by the Väritehtaankatu in Tukkurila also progressed find new approaches to the use of space and company was also selected as a Sector Leader corresponding amount. The target of Sponda’s on schedule. Both properties will open in spring develop even more agile spatial solutions. Tikku in 2017 to recognise its leadership in sustainable own energy efficiency programme is to reduce 2018. housed residential space, workspace and a development in its sector. Sponda also maintained the energy consumption of its properties by 20 rooftop garden. its excellent Leadership Ascore in the annual per cent by 2020 (using the average conCDP Climate report, which measures companies’ sumption at the start of the millennium as the greenhouse gas emissions and evaluates their baseline). The energy efficiency programme has measures to mitigate climate change. Sponda’s progressed in line with its targets. score was among the best in the Nordic countries in the Real Estate peer group. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 6 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Chief Executive’s review The year 2017 will be remembered as a significant turning point for Sponda due to the change in ownership. Represented by the U.S. based private equity firm Blackstone, Polar Bidco acquired Sponda’s entire share capital in accordance with a bid submitted in the summer. Following the sale, Sponda was delisted from the stock exchange in December 2017. Financially, the past year was a good one. year, with investments totalling nearly EUR The general economic recovery in the 100 million. The fair value of our investeurozone and in Finland in particular was ment properties was approximately EUR 3.9 reflected in strong rental demand for prembillion at the end of 2017. ises and increasing rental levels, especially in the Helsinki metropolitan area. Activity AWARDS FOR RESPONSIBILITY was also high among property investors. From the perspective of responsibility, 2017 We anticipate that Finland’s predicted GDP was an excellent year and we achieved siggrowth of 2.4 per cent will further increase nificant results on multiple fronts. We conrental demand. We will respond to this tinued to improve our energy efficiency and Responsibility is also increasingly important demand by continuing to focus our property reduce our carbon footprint, which meant ownership on prime locations in the Helthat we made good progress towards the sinki metropolitan area and in Tampere. targets set for 2020 in our energy efficiency to our customers. programme. We also further enhanced the Sponda’s total revenue and net operating recycling of waste at our properties. income both increased in 2017. We had a strong focus on property development last SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 7 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental We also achieved international success in in the future with the aim of developing our ing market of Tampere, where the shopping certificates represent the area of responsibility by receiving the properties further. By taking concrete action centre not only supports Sponda’s strategy, a guarantee of a best score within our sector among Eurowe can influence the life cycle and sustainbut also contributes to the city’s goal of property’s quality, and pean property companies in the GRESB ability of our properties as well as reduce making Ratina the most versatile centre of a growing number of sustainability survey. their negative environmental impact. recreation and entertainment in the Pirkanmaa region. companies also have We continued the environmental certifiTHE LARGEST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN their own responsibility OUR HISTORY IS A JOINT EFFORT cation of our properties in line with our The Väritehtaankatu office and retail targets that property strategy. The Citycenter and Zeppelin Our ongoing new construction projects in property, to be completed in Tikkurila in the choices can support. shopping centres received BREEAM® Very Tampere and Vantaa, both of which will be spring, also matches our strategy by having Good level environmental certificates. completed this year, are great examples of good transport links, particularly in the form Forum was named the best shopping centre our strong property development expertise. of railway connections. The new property in the Nordic countries. One of the reasons is sustainably designed and built, and our for the award was the shopping centre’s The shopping centre that will open its aim is to achieve LEED® Gold environmental dedication to supporting the employment doors in Tampere’s Ratina district in spring certification for it. The property has a high of young people in its area. Responsibility is 2018 is the largest development project in level of energy efficiency thanks to solutions also increasingly important to our customSponda’s history, and it will also be the city’s such as excellent heat recovery and good ers. Environmental certificates represent largest shopping centre. Ratina will become structural insulation. Indoor air quality and a guarantee of a property’s quality, and a an active new service hub that will create comfort have also been particular focus growing number of our customer companies a new urban cityscape and urban culture areas at the Väritehtaankatu property. Furhave strategic responsibility targets that around it. Environmental perspectives and thermore, sustainability has been emphatheir choice of property can support. We will energy efficiency were taken into account sised at the construction site right from the continue our efforts to improve environstarting from the shopping centre’s design start, for example, by recycling construction mental responsibility and energy efficiency phase. We have confidence in the developwaste and choosing low-emission materials. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 8 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX In addition to our new construction prodo not simply go away when new ones are of subcontractors, effective and transparent jects, our focus on responsibility is also introduced, and the transition requires co-operation with our partners is also crureflected in our development of existing flexibility from everyone. On behalf of cial for achieving our shared goals. properties. We conserve and modernise old the company, I want to thank our highly premium properties with respect for their competent employees. They are our most EYES ON THE FUTURE On behalf of the history, thereby extending their life cycle. important resource. We will continue to Along with the new owner, changes will company, I want With a bright vision, even traditional office support the professional development and be made to our strategy. Being under new to thank our highly premises can find new life as communiexpertise of our employees in all matters ownership also creates tremendous new ty-oriented spaces that meet the needs of related to the real estate business, properopportunities for us. In addition to develcompetent employees. the future of work. This is exemplified by ties and sustainability. oping new properties and modernising old They are our most Sponda’s award-winning coworking concept properties, our strategy focuses on leasing, important resource. MOW, which we continued to expand in I also wish to thank our customers for selling and buying properties. Success in the 2017. We now have two popular MOW hubs working with us to achieve our responsiarea of environmental responsibility and in Helsinki, and the third MOW is set to take bility objectives. Without their commitimproving energy efficiency will remain key Tampere by storm in 2018. ment, we could not accomplish our energy goals of ours going forward. We are boldly savings target and other important goals. turning our eyes to the future and we will A BIG THANK YOU TO OUR PERSONNEL The feedback we receive from our customcontinue the development and expansion of The change in ownership has brought a ers is essential for us, and we will continue the community-oriented MOW concept. Our wealth of new possibilities. The past year to invest resources in co-operation going position as a pioneer in the property sector was a busy one for our employees, but they forward. In 2018, we will continue the will only get stronger as we move forward. performed with great deal of ambition, development of our customer relationship drive and expertise. Major changes are not management by deploying a new CRM soluKari Inkinen always easy for personnel. Previous tasks tion. As we work with an extensive network President and CEO SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 9 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX OUR APPROACH From the perspective of responsibility, 2017 was an excellent year and we achieved significant results on multiple fronts. Kari Inkinen President and CEO SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 10 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX How we create value sector has been quite a traditional induspremises are always designed to suit their The trend of urbanisation is set to become even stronger in the try until recently, new ideas and initiatives users and environment. Tampere is home to always require a change in thinking and many large and rapidly developing compafuture. For a provider of flexible spatial solutions such as Sponda, culture. We want to be among the first to nies, which makes it an attractive location this presents growing business opportunities. respond to the changing needs of working for the MOW concept. life, which is why we developed our own The megatrends of our time – urbanisation, good public transport links also encourages coworking concept, MOW, which took its EFFICIENT USE OF SPACE AND ENERGY climate change and digitalisation – have a our customers to choose environmentally first steps on Pieni Roobertinkatu in HelTechnological progress takes concrete form dramatic impact on the property sector and friendly options for getting around. sinki a few years ago. in properties in areas such as the developsociety as a whole. Sponda provides jobs ment of real-time monitoring of energy and and develops cities in co-operation with FLEXIBILITY IS AT THE HEART OF THE It is a growing trend that companies of all water consumption, the increased use of BUSINESS PREMISES OF THE FUTURE various parties, while also fostering and sizes need flexible premises that can be sensor technology to measure indoor condicreating urban culture. The property sector is constantly changing. adapted to their changing requirements. tions and advanced lighting control. TechnolAs a significant player in our industry, we Even large corporations have units that must ogy makes it possible to collect increasingly Urbanisation makes the population must focus not only on location, but also the have the capacity to change quickly when detailed information that helps regulate the increasingly concentrated in cities and characteristics of the buildings themselves necessary. MOW Stargate, which opened energy and water consumption of properties around urban centres. Jobs will inevitably and how they can be developed. This ensures in Helsinki’s Ruoholahti district in 2017, is as well as measure waste volumes and follow this same trend. that we can deliver the best possible soludesigned to meet this specific need. In addirecyclability. Improvement in these areas tions to our customers’ changing needs. tion flexibility, the MOW concept emphahelps us not only promote environmental The demand for premises will continue to sises community orientation, comfort and responsibility at our properties, but also gengrow, especially in Helsinki’s central busiIn retail, the digital transformation and sustainability. The MOW locations’ complierate monetary savings for our customers. ness district. Being located in city centres, e-commerce have challenged traditional ance with WWF Green Office standards and with good transport access, is increasingly shopping centres and companies to revamp BREEAM® environmental certification are With respect to the comfort of work and the important for many of our customers. their operations. Many retailers now have signs of sustainability that are held in high use of space, in the future it will be increasRecognising this, Sponda will continue an online presence in addition to physical regard by many of today’s companies. ingly important to know how to make optito focus its property ownership on prime retail locations. Office properties are also mal use of the available space. We believe locations in Helsinki and Tampere, in the facing a major shift as location-independent The next MOW will open its doors in Tamthat technology will provide our customers immediate vicinity of rail routes and other and time-independent work arrangements pere in 2018. The core of the MOW conwith an improved capacity to anticipate transport hubs. Being centrally located with become more common. As the property cept remains the same, but otherwise the their needs. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 11 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Sponda’s value chain SPONDA’S CAPITAL Financial capital • Value of investment properties 3.935 bn€ • Occupancy rate 89.6% • Property development investments 99.7 M€ VALUE CREATED BY SPONDA • Maintenance investments (capex) 37.8 M€ Value for customers Personnel • Office spaces that support operations • Number of personnel 106 • Development of the property portfolio • Academic background: university or polytechnic • Savings from the reduced energy consumption 64%, ocational school level 35%, other 1% of business premises • Training days per person: 1.9 • Personnel satisfaction index 67/100 Value for society Manufactured capital • Development of the urban environment • Taxes arising from Sponda’s business • Quantity of properties 165 operations 15.9 M€ • Total floor area of office properties 800,500 m2 • Investments 150.1 M€ • Total floor area of shopping centres 201,500 m2 • Value of land 48 M€ OPERATING MODELS Value for the community Intellectual capital Sponda business operations: Sponda owns, leases and • Employment • Environmental partners: 23 develops office and retail properties and shopping centres. • Sharing knowledge and expertise • Properties in energy efficiency programme 100 With innovative customer-focused solutions and high• Development of business premises and services quality property maintenance, we provide our customers • Corporate planning with comfortable, safe and energy-efficient business Impact on the environment premises. • Reduction of energy and water consumption Social capital • Reduction of CO2 emissions • Activity in industry organisations Sponda’s vision: The first choice for customers • Maximising waste recycling • Extensive subcontractor network looking for business premises Natural capital • Water consumption 382,151 m3 • Electricity consumption 126,760 MWh • Heating consumption 155,893 MWh • District cooling consumption 11,729 MWh Information dated 31 Dec 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 12 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Stakeholders Sponda has several stakeholders. We engage in active coSociety – Through responsibility in corporate and environmental matters, we strive to be operation with our stakeholders and strive to respond to their socially responsible both as an employer and expectations in accordance with our values and operating as an urban developer. We work continuously to promote the energy efficiency of methods. The guiding principles for our work with stakeholders are business premises. We actively monitor legreliability, integrity and transparency. islative developments and co-operate with industry organisations to express our views. Personnel – Committed, skilled, satisfied and well as our office concepts and services. motivated personnel are a key resource for We also actively guide our customers Organisations – We are active members of us. We aim to provide everyone at Sponda towards choices that conserve energy and various organisations, such as the Finnish We strive to create with good career and training opportunities the environment. Association of Building Owners and Conthe conditions for as well as an atmosphere of open dialogue. struction Clients (RAKLI), Finnish Business The occupational wellbeing, job satisfaction Subcontractors – In our purchasing and & Society (FIBS) and Green Building Counlong-term customer and equal treatment of our personnel are of quality processes, our key expectations are cil Finland (GBC Finland). We promote the relationships. the utmost importance to us functionality, transparency, responsibility development of our industry through organiand taking environmental issues into considsational co-operation. Customers – Our customers are located in eration. We monitor and steer our subconthe Helsinki metropolitan area as well as the tractors’ work and quality. Our contracts aim Other stakeholders – Our other important Tampere and Oulu regions. They represent at reliable long-term partnerships. stakeholders include educational instituvarious industries including retail, the public tions and various research and development sector and the banking and investment Media – The cornerstones of our media relaorganisations. We provide study opportunisector. We strive to create the conditions for tions are activity, openness and timeliness. ties to students in the field of real estate and More information on our stakeholders’ long-term customer relationships and proOur media relations are based on active also engage in joint projects with educaexpectations and our relevant actions is vide our customers with flexible, healthy and communication. We continuously develop tional institutions in the same field. available on our website. energy-efficient premises that match their our methods for communicating about our needs. We develop our customer service as operations. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 13 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Strategy and priorities The development of responsible operations is guided by our vision in Ruoholahti are examples of strategic ment. The Executive Board also evaluates achievements during the review period. the climate change-related risks and opporof being the most trusted and profitable operator in the property tunities related to our operations as part of sector and the most responsible implementer of sustainable International external recognition, such as the company’s decision-making. the results of the GRESB and CDP Climate development. OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES sustainability assessments and successful environmental certification processes, We have defined six responsibility prioriThe key goals of Sponda’s strategy are profImproving energy efficiency and increasare outcomes of Sponda’s responsible and ties that are significant to our operations: itable growth and active portfolio developing the recyclability of waste are very high systematic efforts related to property manenergy and environmental efficiency, the ment. The company’s operations priorities for us. The energy consumption of agement. location of properties, improving the cusare focused on office properties, shopping the properties included in Sponda’s energy tomer experience, investing in personnel, centres, coworking spaces and active propefficiency programme has decreased in line RESPONSIBILITY IS AT THE CORE OF transparent and ethical operations and SPONDA’S OPERATIONS erty development. with previously set targets. At the same taking the industry forward. Implementtime, a growing percentage of the waste Responsibility is an integral part of Sponing and developing these priorities is a Sponda has focused its property ownership generated at the properties is being reutida’s strategy and day-to-day operations. fixed element of our operations. Sponda’s on strategically important areas, where the lised and recycled. We use the term Spondability to describe stakeholders were involved in defining the company already has a strong position. This our holistic approach to responsibility and priorities. gives us a better capacity to develop our Sponda’s customer relationships are based sustainability. It covers all areas of responsimarket intelligence and grow profitably. The on interactive partnership. With the help bility: social, economic and environmental. To support the development of our responcriteria applied by Sponda in selecting propof a process to support the development of Environmental responsibility is an integral sibility, we set long-term goals and annual erties for acquisition and ownership include the customer experience, Sponda aims to part of Sponda’s operations. We aim to targets for the six priorities mentioned energy efficiency, flexibility, central location identify the best ways of working from the develop our environmental expertise and above. We monitor the achievement of the and development potential. customer’s perspective. The Executive Board share it with customers and partners. targets and report on them annually. More and the Board of Directors regularly moninformation is provided on page 19. Environmental responsibility, the customer itor the achievement of strategic targets. Our responsibility efforts also enhance experience and the development and Progress on the new properties under conour risk management. The assessment of expansion of the MOW coworking concept struction, improved customer satisfaction potential environmental risks is an integral are Sponda’s strategic focus areas. and the opening of the new MOW Stargate aspect of Sponda’s ongoing risk manageSUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 14 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Managing responsibility Responsibility is part of our strategy and it is incorporated into our dayto-day work and business expertise. The management of responsibility has been integrated into our business management practices. Our responsibility efforts are based on our ity Manager. Sponda’s President and CEO strategy as well as Sponda’s values, Code is in charge of the overall management of Conduct and the UN Global Compact of responsibility and the achievement of responsibility principles, which we are targets. Sponda’s Executive Board discusses committed to. The Code of Conduct is responsibility-related issues and progress supplemented by Sponda’s internal policies, towards goals on a regular basis. Where operational guidelines and commitments. necessary, responsibility matters are also In 2018, we will extend the Code of Conduct discussed by the Board of Directors. to cover Sponda’s entire supply chain by publishing a separate Supplier Code of Conduct. Both our own operations and those of our supply chain must be based on a commitment to ethical and transparent business practices. Spondability reflects We have defined six responsibility priorities, our comprehensive the management of which is decentralised and the related responsibilities are assigned approach to to the appropriate roles at the Executive responsibility and its Board level as well as the operational level. management. Zeppelin shopping centre, Sponda’s responsibility and its developKempele ment are led by the company SustainabilSUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 15 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Responsibility commitments Sponda’s responsible operations are guided by the company’s Code of Conduct and the principles of the UN’s Global Compact initiative, which we have committed to. Drafted in 2014, the Code of Conduct of being a forerunner of responsibility in lays the foundation for the company’s our line of business. responsibility efforts, the management of responsibility and stakeholder relaWe report annually on our progress in tions. It covers Sponda’s responsibility complying with the principles of the principles, including good governance, Global Compact. The reports and a more responsibilities and expectations in terms detailed description of the responsibility of key stakeholders, transparent business principles are available on our website. operations, anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices, environmental responsiIn 2018, Sponda will extend its Code bility and responsibility as an employer. of Conduct to cover its subcontracting The Code of Conduct has been approved chain. The Supply Chain Code of Conduct by Sponda’s Board of Directors and it is highlights responsibilities related to areas complemented by internal policies, operasuch as transparency, environmental tional guidelines and commitments. responsibility, labour, human rights and safety. In addition to requiring compliance The UN Global Compact, which Sponda with the Code of Conduct among Sponda’s signed in 2014, consists of 10 responsipersonnel, we will require all members of Diana Park, Erottajankatu 5 and 7, Helsinki bility principles related to human rights, our supply chain to observe transparency labour, the environment and anti-corrupand the principles of sustainable develoption. The commitment supports our goal ment in their operations. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 16 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES Responsibility is a prominent part of our day-to-day operations. We use the term spondability to describe our holistic approach to responsibility and sustainability. Hannamari Koivula Sustainability Manager SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 17 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Our responsibility priorities Sponda has engaged its stakeholders in defining the material themes of its responsibility. The outcome of this analysis was a set of six key priorities that provide the foundation for the company’s responsibility efforts. Sponda’s responsibility priorities and the and Sponda’s ethical business principles. More information on the materiality related material aspects of responsibility These responsibility themes have been analysis and its stages is available on were defined in 2014 based on a materialapproved by Sponda’s Executive Board our website. ity analysis produced in co-operation with and we have defined our six responsibility stakeholders. priorities based on them: Our responsibility priorities In the materiality analysis, the material • energy and environmental efficiency aspects of responsibility in Sponda’s value • property locations 1) Energy and environmental chain were identified and analysed based • enhancing the customer experience efficiency on industry and background analyses, key • investing in employees 2) Property locations stakeholder perspectives and an • transparent and ethical operations assessment of business impacts. • taking the industry forward 3) Enhancing the customer experience Based on the assessments of our exterThe material corporate responsibility 4) Investing in employees nal stakeholders, the key themes of our aspects that correspond with Sponda’s responsibility are the professional comperesponsibility priorities are shown in the 5) Transparent and ethical tence of Sponda’s personnel, the energy tables on the following pages and in the operations efficiency of properties, customer health GRI Content Index. The tables present the 6) Taking the industry forward and safety, the comfort of indoor environtargets for our responsibility priorities and ments, providing a working environment the results achieved, followed by a more that supports the customer’s operations, detailed description of each priority. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 18 Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2017 Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuolto Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys Energy and environmental efficiency Transparent and ethical operations Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Energy savings of 20% We promote our energy 16.2 percentage Maintaining an excelThe results of the CDP Excellent level by 2020, using the Logistiikka efficiency Tekniset programme Toimistot järjestelmät points of theLounasravintola Kinteistöt target Ympäristöpalvelut lent level in internaUutiskirje Climate and GRESB Kiinteistökehitys achieved in the average consumption Lämpöenergiankulutus baseline Neuvottelutilat in 2001–2005 as the each year Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi P was achieved Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet tional sustainability Jätehuolto assessments sustainability assessments will remain at an excellent level P CDP Climate and GRESB assessments Total like for like Total energy consump-2.0% compared to Operating in accorNew Supplier Code Supplier Code Facebook Energia ja sähkö energy consumption of tion of properties to be Aulapalvelu will decreaproperties se each year reduced Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut P Spondability the previous year Logistiikka dance with ethical Tekniset järjestelmät principles Toimistot of Conduct principles Kinteistöt implemented and incorporated into new and Lounasravintola g of Conduct was Ympäristöpalvelut drafted Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehi Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuoltorenewed agreements The CO2 emissions CO2 emissions arising -2.1% compared to arising from total like fromRaitiovaunu the like for like the previous year Pyörä P Toimistot Kinteistöt AutoLounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Metro Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys Bussi Juna Lentokone Parkkialue for like energy conenergy consumption to Measuring customer Indoor environment Two extensive sumption will decrease be reduced satisfaction regarding satisfaction surveys indoor environeach year the quality of the conducted at two ment satisfaction Improving energy efficiency in line with Energy efficiency improvement measures The annual target was exceeded Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys indoor environment at Sponda-owned properSponda’s properties Vesi ties at a minimum P Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti surveys were conducted Extranet Jätehuolto the property sector’s produced one per cent Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Kauppapaikat Auto energy efficiency agreement (TETS) Sosiaalitilat 7.5% by 2025, using APK by Metrosavings (2,110 in energy MWh) compared Ympäristösertifikaatti Facebook Extranet total energy consumpRaitiovaunu to the P Jätehuolto Energia ja sähkö Juna Aulapalvelu Bussi Yhteisöllisyys Pyörä Kartta/hakupalvelut Lentokone Monitoring the opera— Spondability ting model, control and Parkkialue The level of maintenance services Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys energy consumption in tion in 2015 2015 as the baseline Seeking environmental At least two properties BREEAM certifi® Auto monitoring of property maintenance Metro services Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi P improved Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue certification (LEED®, will be certified in 2017 cates for Zeppelin BREEAM ) for all new P and Citycenter Improvement in tenant — Customer feed® propertyKauppapaikat development APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys satisfaction regarding Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability back improved Raitiovaunu Juna projects and major Bussi renovation projects Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue property services g compared to the previous year Increasing co-operaTwo new environmental No new partnerKauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondabilit g Conducting main— Regular mainteP ti Extranet Jätehuolto tion on environmental partnerships ships, but co-operesponsibility with our ration continued tenance and energy nance and energy customers reviews at properties reviews were conducted at Increasing the waste recycling rate each Waste recycling rate at 47% by the end of P Recycling rate 47% g properties Facebook Energia ja sähkö year Aulapalvelu the year Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability Lentokone Parkkialue SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 19 Logistiikka YEAR Tekniset järjestelmät 2017Toimistot OUR Kinteistöt APPROACHLounasravintola OUR RESPONSIBILITY Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje PRIORITIES Kiinteistökehitys KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuolto The objectives and results of our responsibility Logistiikka priorities in 2017 Tekniset järjestelmät Lämpöenergiankulutus Toimistot Kinteistöt Neuvottelutilat Lounasravintola Lämpö/jäähdytys Ympäristöpalvelut Vesi Uutiskirje Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Kiinteistökehitys Extranet Jätehuolto Property locations Auto Enhancing Metro the customer Raitiovaunuexperience Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 Ongoing objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 Increasing the share — Implemented in accorWe will continue to We will continue The customer satisof shopping centres dance with strategy improve the quantity to focus on active faction score for our and office properties in Sponda’s property portfolio Auto Metro Pg Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä and quality of our customer communiLentokone cations and high-quality customer communiParkkialue cations in all of our P reachability was 3.94, which is an increase from the previous pöenergiankulutus Toimistot Neuvottelutilat Kinteistöt Lämpö/jäähdytys Lounasravintola Vesi Ympäristöpalvelut Sosiaalitilat Uutiskirje Ympäristösertifikaatti Kiinteistökehitys Extranet Jätehuolto operations year Developing the — 48% of the property Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability property portfolio by concentrating ownerPg portfolio is located in the Helsinki Central BusiWe will continue to improve our customers’ Overall satisfaction with co-operation Our customers’ overall score for ship on prime areas Developing the — ness District (CBD) area Implemented in accoroverall satisfaction with their co-operation with the lessor with the lessor will improve compared to the previous year P satisfaction with co-operation was 3.93, an increase from property portfolio dance with strategy Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi by concentrating on Kauppapaikat Sosiaalitilatwith Ympäristösertifikaatti locations public APK Extranet Pg Facebook Jätehuolto Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut We will improve our Spondability Our customers’ NPS the previous year NPS remained on a Auto Metro Raitiovaunu transport links Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Net Promoter Score (NPS) further will improve compared to 2016 g par with 2016 Investing in employees Ongoing objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 Taking the industry forward We develop skills and — Progress made accorOngoing objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 practices for shading to plan ring knowledge and g Being the most re— Business profitability, P Raitiovaunu Kauppapaikat Juna APK Bussi Facebook Pyörä Energia ja sähkö Lentokone Aulapalvelu Parkkialue Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability expertise as well as liable, profitable and industry-leading score our culture of interacresponsible player in in the GRESB sustaition and feedback the property sector nability assessment Investing in good — The total number of Promoting best prac— Opportunities for Kinteistöt Lounasravintola leadership by utiliUutiskirje Ympäristöpalvelut sing evaluations of Logistiikka managerial work and Kiinteistökehitys Tekniset järjestelmät g Toimistot personnel training days was 178.5, of which 16% Kinteistöt were training days for Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut tices in the property sector to support susUutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys tainable development g using new technology at properties coaching middle management Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability Active participation in Active participation We were active We promote occupa— Mobile virtual coaching RAKLI and GBC Finland in RAKLI and GBC participants in the tional wellbeing and programme introduced activities and projects Finland activities activities of RAKLI’s individual responsibility for maintaining a g for use by personnel and projects g sector-specific management teams and Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti positive work atmos-Extranet Jätehuolto committees and GBC phereLämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuolto Finland’s committees We invest in providing — The number of training Promoting responsible — Progress in environdevelopment and days was 178.5 and operating methods in mental partnerships Logistiikka training opportunities Tekniset järjestelmät for our personnel Toimistot Kinteistöt g Lounasravintola all of the company’s Ympäristöpalvelut employees participated in performance and Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys co-operation with our customers and contractors g and responsibility-related co-operation with customers and development reviews contractors Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Auto Metro Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue 20 Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Energy and environmental efficiency Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuolto Sponda’s responsible long-term efforts to manage and reduce the Energy and environmental efficiency Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 environmental impacts of properties helpedAuto the company Metro obtain Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Energy savings of 20% Pyörä Lentokone We promote our energy Parkkialue 16.2 percentage by 2020, using the efficiency programme points of the target two new environmental certificates. We also made progress in improving energy efficiency in line with our targets. average consumption in 2001–2005 as the baseline each year P was achieved Total like for like Total energy consump-2.0% compared to Our goal-oriented environmental certificaof 2017 Kauppapaikat for Sponda’s ongoing APKnew property Facebook Energia ja sähkö energy consumption of tion of properties to be Aulapalvelu will decreaproperties se each year reduced Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut P Spondability the previous year tion efforts continued with good results as development projects, the new Ratina The CO2 emissions CO2 emissions arising -2.1% compared to we obtained two new international BREEAM® shoppingLogistiikka centre in Tampere and the Väritearising from total like from the like for like the previous year P Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys environmental certificates, one for the Zephtaankatu office and retail property in for like energy conenergy consumption to sumption will decrease be reduced pelin shopping centre in Kempele and one Vantaa. In 2018, we will pursue certification each year for the Citycenter shopping centre in Helfor our new properties under construction Improving energy Energy efficiency The annual target efficiency in line with improvement measures was exceeded sinki. Both shopping centres were awarded a as well as significant renovation projects. the property sector’s produced one per cent BREEAM® In-Use Very Good level certificate. At the end of 2017, Sponda had 16 properinformationNeuvottelutilat Lämpöenergiankulutus Up-to-date on Sponda’s enviLämpö/jäähdytys Vesi energy efficiency agreement (TETS) Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti 7.5% by 2025, using by in energy savings (2,110 MWh) compared to the Extranet total energy consumpP Jätehuolto ties certified under the international LEED® ronmentally certified properties is available energy consumption in tion in 2015 2015 as the baseline or BREEAMTekniset Logistiikka ® environmental järjestelmät certification Toimistot on the Kinteistöt company website. Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys Seeking environmental At least two properties BREEAM® certifisystems. The certified properties represent certification (LEED®, will be certified in 2017 cates for Zeppelin AN ENERGY-EFFICIENT PIONEER approximately 30 per cent of Sponda’s total leasable floor space. Through its own responsible operations and BREEAM®) for all new property development projects and major P and Citycenter Auto Metro Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Energy efficiency programme, Sponda aims renovation projects Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Going forward, our strategic aim is to conto be among the pioneers of the property Increasing co-operaTwo new environmental No new partnerLämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys tinue to obtain environmental certification Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti industry in promoting the achievement of Extranet Jätehuolto tion on environmental responsibility with our customers partnerships g ships, but co-operation continued for all new construction projects and major the goals specified in the international Paris Increasing the waste Waste recycling rate Recycling rate 47% P renovation projects. Environmental certifiClimate Agreement and the EU’s energy and recycling rate each at 47% by the end of cation processes were underway at the end climate targets. Sponda has systematically year the year Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability Auto Metro Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 21 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX invested in improving energy efficiency for ments that are profitable from a techniELECTRICITY, HEATING, WATER AND ELECTRICITY, HEATING, WATER AND DISTRICT COOLING CONSUMPTION DISTRICT COOLING CONSUMPTION several years now. Energy efficiency has been cal-economic standpoint. In 2017, energy OF THE PROPERTIES* INTENSITY OF THE PROPERTIES* one of our strategic priorities since 2009. We reviews were conducted on 62 properties. MWh | m3 kWh/GFAm2 | l/GFAm2 have invested in energy efficiency by imple400,000 300 menting Sponda’s own energy efficiency SPONDA WAS AGAIN INVOLVED IN THE 250 INDUSTRY’S ENERGY EFFICIENCY EFFORTS 300,000 programme and by joining in the voluntary 200 energy efficiency agreement of the property In October 2016, the property sector signed 200,000 150 sector. Energy efficiency is also an increasa new energy efficiency agreement for 100 100,000 ingly significant factor in the property-re2017–2025 with the Finnish Ministry of Eco50 lated decisions of our tenants, the users of nomic Affairs and Employment, the Finnish 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 our properties. Ministry of the Environment and the Finnish Electricity District cooling Electricity District cooling Energy Authority. The voluntary agreement is Heating, normalised Water, m3 Heating, normalised Water, ltr/GFAm2 At the end of 2017, our energy efficiency aimed at achieving the energy efficiency tarHeating, measured * Sponda’s properties Heating, measured * Sponda’s properties in Finland in Finland programme covered 100 properties, which gets set for Finland by the EU without implerepresents 87 per cent of the properties fully menting mandatory legislation. Sponda was owned by Sponda. Our energy efficiency proamong the first companies in the property CARBON FOOTPRINT ARISING CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSION FROM THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION INTENSITY FROM ENERGY gramme’s target is to achieve energy savings sector to join the new agreement, marking OF THE PROPERTIES* CONSUMPTION OF THE PROPERTIES* of 20 per cent by 2020, using the average its commitment to continuing its long-term t CO2 kg CO2/GFAm2 consumption in 2001–2005 as the baseline. efforts to improve energy efficiency. 80,000 50 40 60,000 We made progress in line with the targets For the new agreement period, Sponda’s 30 of our energy efficiency programme in 2017. objective is to achieve 7.5 per cent in savings 40,000 20 By the end of the year, we had achieved 16.2 through energy efficiency measures by 2025 20,000 per cent of the target. Comprehensive energy when compared to the energy consumption 10 reviews are regularly conducted at the proplevel of 2015. Our efforts were successful 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 erties that are included in the programme. in 2017, the first year of the agreement. For Electricity District cooling Electricity District cooling Based on these reviews, adjustments are the first year of the agreement, our target Heating Total Heating Total made at the properties in accordance with was to achieve a one per cent reduction * Sponda’s properties in Finland * Sponda’s properties in Finland their use, as well as energy efficiency investcompared to our total energy consumption SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 22 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX in 2015, and our energy efficiency measures recycling on a property-specific basis and WASTE RECOVERY RATES saw us reduce our energy consumption by to implement the necessary development OF THE PROPERTIES 2017, more than twice as much. We implemented measures to improve sorting and recycling. IN TOTAL 7,217 tonnes* several energy efficiency measures during Our waste is already recovered at a rate of the year in relation to the utilisation of waste 100 per cent. Recycling accounted for 47 per heat, heat pumps, property lighting, ventilacent of the waste recovery rate at the end of tion equipment and plumbing fixtures. 2017. In line with the hierarchy of waste, our goal is to reduce waste volumes and further Sponda has The comparable energy consumption of increase our waste recycling rate year by Sponda’s property portfolio continued its year. We achieved our recycling rate target systematically steady decline by falling by two per cent for 2017 and set a target for 2018 to increase invested in improving Energy recovery 53% year-on-year in 2017. At the same time, the Sponda’s overall waste recycling rate to energy efficiency for Material recovery 47% carbon footprint arising from Sponda’s com49 per cent. several years * Sponda’s properties, like-for-like, in Finland parable energy consumption fell by slightly over two per cent year-on-year. In 2018, we will focus on achieving a smooth now. start to waste management at our new TOTAL WASTE VOLUMES OF In addition to improving energy efficiency, Ratina shopping centre in Tampere as well THE PROPERTIES* we focused on co-operation with our cusas promoting recycling at the Forum shopt tomers and on improving the recycling and ping centre. The properties that make up the 8,000 reuse rate of waste. Forum shopping centre block are significant vation projects and related environmental 6,000 to Sponda’s overall waste management, as certification processes, we have paid special IMPROVING RECYCLING THROUGH nearly one fifth of Sponda’s total waste volattention to not only optimising energy 4,000 CO-OPERATION ume is generated at the Forum properties. consumption, but also reducing water 2,000 Our goal is to continue to improve our mateconsumption. rial efficiency. In 2017, we initiated environREDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 mental coordinator activity in co-operation We sought to enhance water consumption In new construction projects, we reduce Energy recovery Mixed waste with our long-term waste management partin 2017 by continuing to survey the plumbwater consumption by always choosing lowto landfill Material recovery ner Lassila & Tikanoja (L&T). The goal is to ing fixtures at our properties to identify flow plumbing fixtures, or even waterless * Sponda’s properties in Finland evaluate opportunities for promoting waste water-conserving solutions. In large renoplumbing fixtures. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 23 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX STRENGTH THROUGH ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIPS Sponda had 23 environmental partnerObjectives for 2018 ships at the end of 2017. Our environmen• The like for like total energy consumption (electricity, tal partnership programme is aimed at heating, district cooling) will decrease from the reducing the environmental load resulting 2017 level. from the use of properties by engaging in • The CO2 emissions caused by the total like for like close co-operation with our customers. consumption of energy will decrease from the 2017 In addition to energy consumption, the level. partnership programme takes into account • Our energy efficiency measures implemented in the broader environmental impact of 2018 will achieve at least 1% in energy savings properties and customers’ operations, such relative to the total energy consumption in 2015. as material efficiency, water consumption • Environmental certification (LEED® or BREEAM®) and factors related to the comfort of the will be sought for all new construction projects and indoor environment. Communicating the major renovation projects, or In Use environmental environmental efficiency of the property certification will be sought for properties. to those who work there, for example by • At least two environmental certificates will be organising environmental events, is also obtained in 2018. part of the environmental partnership. The objectives and forms of the partnership are • Sponda’s overall waste recycling and reuse rate in Finland will be at least 49% by the end of 2018. agreed separately with each customer. We continued to co-operate with our partners • Sponda will engage in continued and closer in 2017 to minimise the environmental co-operation with environmental partners in 2018. impacts of partnership properties. Our goal for 2018 is to further increase the numThe Ratina shopping centre in Tampere is cooled by the cold water ber of partners and engage in even closer masses of the Tammerkoski rapids. co-operation with them. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 24 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX CASE Boosting year by year. Robert Mårtensson is the Account Manager responsible for Sponda at Lassila & recycling Tikanoja. He says Sponda’s shopping centres, in particular, have taken significant steps forward through in the area of recycling through the work of the environmental coordinator, who works in the co-operation premises to give guidance on recycling. “L&T’s environmental coordinator began working Sponda’s primary responsibility priority is the at the Citycenter shopping centre in 2017, and For waste energy efficiency and environmental efficiency co-operation with retailers has already produced management facilities of its properties. Responsibility and environmengood results after only a few months. The coorand recycling to be as tal values also guide the choices of a growing dinator and the tenants have together reviewed number of Sponda’s customers. Achieving the recyclable materials with a very concrete functional as possible, ambitious objectives requires the property approach. The recycling rate had increased to 66 they need to be given owner to engage in broad-based and robust per cent at the end of the year from about 60 per due consideration at cent in January 2017. The improvement from co-operation with its partners. For a decade now, the beginning of the Lassila & Tikanoja has been in charge of waste 2016 is ten per cent, which is quite an impressive management at Sponda’s properties, and the feat,” Mårtensson explains. property’s life cycle, development thereof. The co-operation is set in the building design to continue after the two parties renewed their PROACTIVE PLANNING SAVES MONEY AND THE ENVIRONMENT phase. framework agreement in 2017. Roughly half of the waste generated at Sponda’s properties is The environmental coordinator provides guidcurrently recycled and reused. The remaining ance to tenants and their employees on recycling. Restaurant world in Citycenter opened in 2017. waste is utilised fully in energy production. The This guidance can be very hands-on, if necessary. recycling rate of Sponda’s waste has increased In shopping centres, in particular, there is a diverse SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 25 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX range of waste fractions, from coffee beans to erties, such as the Väritehtaankatu office and plastic and from paper to batteries. retail property in Vantaa’s Tikkurila district and the Ratina shopping centre that will open its Enhancing recycling is significant not only to the doors in Tampere this coming spring. environment, but also the finances of Sponda and its customers. The higher the recycling rate Sponda aims to further increase the recycling of materials, the greater the cost savings. Tidy rate at its shopping centres and office propand well-organised waste management facilities erties. Sponda has been a pioneer in its field are also a factor in customers’ property choices. when it comes to environmental coordinator co-operation. The operating model previously “A waste management room that is tidy and used at the Citycenter shopping centre and the functional encourages people to sort waste Ruoholahti shopping centre has now also been and take the right course of action, while an introduced at the Forum shopping centre and untidy and poorly maintained room can drive many of Sponda’s office properties. Enhancing recycling a potential tenant away and leave a poor is significant not only impression of the entire property. Untidy and “Material efficiency is one of Sponda’s responto the environment, ineffective waste management rooms also sibility objectives. Our goal is to increase the give existing tenants the sense that the lessor recycling rate and reduce the amount of mixed but also the finances is unwilling to invest in environmental matters waste. The cost of mixed waste will increase of Sponda and its and recycling,” Mårtensson adds. further in the future, which gives waste sorting customers.” even more monetary significance. Co-opFor waste management facilities and recycling eration enables us to influence the financial to be as functional as possible, they need to be aspects of the situation as well as the environgiven due consideration in the building design mental side of things,” says Hannamari Koivula, phase, at the beginning of the property’s life Sustainability Manager at Sponda. cycle. This is the case for Sponda’s new propSUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 26 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Property locations Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys Location and accessibility play a crucial role in the success and life Property locations Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 cycle of a property. Sponda aims to focus its property ownership Increasing the share — Implemented in accorof shopping centres dance with strategy on locations with good transport links. Some 48 per cent of the total value of the company’s property portfolio is located prime inLämpöenergiankulutus and office properties in Sponda’s property portfolio Pg Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Neuvottelutilat Kinteistöt Lämpö/jäähdytys Lounasravintola Vesi Ympäristöpalvelut Sosiaalitilat Uutiskirje Ympäristösertifikaatti Kiinteistökehitys Extranet Jätehuolto Developing the — 48% of the property areas in central Helsinki. property portfolio by concentrating ownership on prime areas Pg portfolio is located in the Helsinki Central Business District (CBD) area Centrally located properties with good this. Both of these properties are currently Developing the — Implemented in accortransport links are at the core of Sponda’s under construction and scheduled to open property portfolio dance with strategy strategy. Accessibility and good public transport connections play a significant role this year. Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Auto Vesi Metro by concentrating on Sosiaalitilatwith Ympäristösertifikaatti locations Raitiovaunu transport links public Juna Extranet Bussi Pg Jätehuolto Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue in our customers’ property choices. Our goal Ratina has been built with emphasis on is that our properties can be conveniently responsibility right from the start. For merkoski rapids will reduce the electricity INVESTMENT PROPERTIES BY reached by public transport and that they example, all of the electricity consumed consumption of the shopping centre’s LOCATION AND BY FAIR VALUE* 31 Dec 2017 feature bicycle parking facilities, charging at the construction site has been procooling systems by as much as 75 per cent stations for electric cars and designated duced from renewable energy Auto Metro sources. The Raitiovaunu compared Junato normal coolingBussi systemsPyörä that Lentokone Parkkialue Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability parking places for low-emission vehicles. shopping centre’s location right next to the use air condensers. The use of the cold Tammerkoski rapids makes it possible for water from the rapids eliminates the need The recent years’ strong focus on new the property’s cooling systems to use the for electrically powered cooling condensers construction supports our strategy, and we cold water masses that flow through Ratina that would have taken up significant space invested nearly EUR 100 million in property Bay. The heat generated by the refrigeration on the roof and used up a lot of energy. The development in 2017. The Ratina shopping Kauppapaikat equipment of shops will beAPKused for Facebook heating Energia design phase of theAulapalvelu ja sähkö Ratina shopping Yhteisöllisyys centre Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability centre in central Tampere and the Väritethe property. The air that circulates through was certified with a BREEAM® Very Good Helsinki metropolitan area 88% Oulu 2% htaankatu retail and office property in the shopping centre will be used to heat environmental certificate, and the certifiTampere 7% Moscow 3% Vantaa’s Tikkurila district, right along the the parking facilities. The use of the cold cation process has continued during the * Excluding Property Development railway tracks, are excellent examples of water masses flowing through the Tamconstruction phase. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 27 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX The aim for the new property under conand the life cycle of the building itself. The struction on Väritehtaankatu in Vantaa’s several prestigious old buildings owned by Tikkurila district is to achieve LEED ® Sponda in Helsinki’s central business disGold environmental certification. Väritetrict are excellent examples of this. At the htaankatu is centrally located with good end of 2017, Sponda had 164 leasable proppublic transport links and easy access to erties with a combined floor area of 1.2 the diverse services of Tikkurila. Cyclists million square metres. Some 48 per cent of and drivers of low-emission vehicles have the total value of Sponda’s property portfobeen taken into consideration in designing lio is located in Helsinki’s central business the property’s outdoor areas: there are pridistrict. The majority of the leasable space ority parking places reserved for low-emisis office premises, with shopping centres sion vehicles and charging stations for accounting for slightly more than one fifth electric cars. of the total and logistics properties slightly less than one fifth. The acquisition of the Quartetto Cello office property in Espoo’s Leppävaara disThe occupancy rate of Sponda’s shopping trict in summer 2017 is also an excellent fit centres has been high for a long time now, with our strategy. Located in the immediand it rose further in 2017 to reach 95 per ate vicinity of the railway tracks and ring cent. Prospective tenants often have to roads, Cello is part of a larger business wait for vacancies for quite a long time in hub. The property offers convenient train, high-demand retail properties in central car, bicycle and pedestrian access. Helsinki, such as the Forum shopping centre. Many of the businesses in Forum have PRIME AREAS been there throughout the shopping centre’s The location of a property is significant decades-long existence, which is testament both to the success of tenant companies to the benefits of its excellent location. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 28 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX CASE Sponda Legends are admired far A property in a and wide good location can potentially have an indefinitely long life CULTIVATING ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY life cycle. It is also possible to adapt properties cycle. Sponda’s properties are centrally located. In to different uses. The drivers of change include accordance with its strategy, the company customer needs and wishes, the development has further focused its property ownership on potential of properties and the broader developlocations with good transport links in the Helment of cities and society as a whole. sinki metropolitan area and Tampere in recent years. Good location is essential to the success Particularly in Helsinki, Sponda’s portfolio of properties and their tenant companies. includes a substantial number of prestigious shopping centre, and an old hotel has been Employees and customers must have conbuildings in the central business district, many restored to its original purpose after going venient access to business locations and the of which have legendary status in the city. The through many different phases. logistics of goods must be possible to organise buildings, some of which are older than indein a sensible manner. pendent Finland, are concrete examples of the Sponda wants to play a role in maintaining our significance of location. A former residential rich architectural and historical heritage for Location also plays a significant role with respect building has been converted into a future generations to enjoy. To this end, looking Mikonkatu 17 and 19, Helsinki to the property life cycle. A property in a good modern office, the headquarters of the local after prestigious properties and modernising location can potentially have an indefinitely long temperance society has become part of a them is important both for the users of the SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 29 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX buildings and for society in general. Our history SPONDA LEGENDS CAMPAIGN CELEBRATED FINLAND’S CENTENARY is part of us, and we also create new history through our actions. Protected buildings have been adapted to various uses over the decades. Close co-operation ALTERATIONS THAT HONOUR HISTORY with the National Board of Antiquities is a key Many legendary properties continue to play an aspect of Sponda’s efforts to preserve Finland’s important role as part of Finnish urban culture cultural history. and business life. For example, the Koitto building, having previously served as a base of operations For the tenants of the buildings that have risen for the temperance movement as well as the to legendary status, being centrally located is labour movement, has been incorporated into the first priority, but the prestigious and historthe Forum shopping centre, while the Alekically valuable properties are also significant si-Hermes building at the corner of Kaivokatu elements of the tenant companies’ brand and and Aleksanterinkatu, built in 1898, is now corporate image. part of Citycenter. In 2017, Sponda participated in the nationwide Completed in 1913, the Seurahuone building, celebrations of 100 years of Finnish independalso known as the Kaleva palace, survived the ence by putting the spotlight on 13 prestigious war and the threat of demolition in the 1970s to centenarian properties located in central Helfind new life in the modern era. The Kaleva palace sinki. During the autumn, members of the public was a milestone achievement in its time, being were invited to learn more about the stories of the first building in Finland to feature reinforced the buildings and the works of art they contain concrete piling, and the temperature could be on Sponda’s popular Sponda Legends walking adjusted separately for each room. The historical tours. Participants were given the opportunity to property has kept up with the times and is now look behind doors that are normally closed to the part of Sponda’s energy efficiency programme. public, discuss the city’s colourful history and see The Kaleva palace is a showpiece of how old the prestigious buildings from a new perspective. Sponda Legends walking tours buildings can be made sustainable with regard If you were unable to take the tour then, you can were extremely popular. to the environment and their users by employing experience it here. solutions that respect their rich history. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 30 Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuolto Enhancing the customer experience Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet Jätehuolto Ensuring a positive and high-quality customer experience is at Auto Enhancing Metro the customer experience Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Ongoing objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 the core of Sponda’s business operations. In 2017, we decided to We will continue to We will continue The customer satisimprove the quantity to focus on active faction score for our purchase a new CRM system and we also developed the usability of our customer feedback. Auto Metro Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä and quality of our customer communiLentokone cations and high-quality customer communiParkkialue cations in all of our P reachability was 3.94, which is an increase from the previous operations year Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability One of our most important goals for the year We have also worked on improving our comWe will continue to Overall satisfaction Our customers’ improve our customers’ with co-operation overall score for was to further improve our overall customer munication with customers to ensure that satisfaction. Based on a service experience survey conducted among Sponda’s office they receive up-to-date information on the maintenance of the properties they operate overall satisfaction with their co-operation with the lessor with the lessor will improve compared to the previous year P satisfaction with co-operation was 3.93, an increase from the previous year Kauppapaikat The tenants, these efforts were successful. APK in Facebook as well as Energia ja sähkö upcoming repairs Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability We will improve our Our customers’ NPS NPS remained on a respondents’ overall satisfaction with their cooperation with the lessor increased to NEW SYSTEM ENABLES FASTER REACTIONS Net Promoter Score (NPS) further will improve compared to 2016 g par with 2016 3.93 on a scale of 1–5 (3.79). Satisfaction Sponda decided to purchase a new CRM increased in 2017 particularly among small system during the year under review. The Objectives for 2018 and medium-sized customers, and the smooth deployment of the system is one • Successful deployment of the CRM system. satisfaction scores also improved across the of the most important goals of our cusboard. Sponda’s Net Promoter Score (NPS) tomer work in 2018. It is important for us to • We will continue to focus on active and high-quality customer remained on a par with 2016. consolidate the information accumulated in communications in all of our operations, and we will take the course of Sponda’s operations and from advantage of the opportunities presented by the new CRM solution in this area. The survey’s response rate also improved external sources in a single system for more compared to previous years after we detailed analysis. This will enable us to react • Our customers’ overall satisfaction with their co-operation with switched from an online questionnaire to issues in a timely manner and provide the lessor will improve further. to more targeted telephone interviews. In even better service to our existing and future • Our customers’ overall satisfaction and Net Promoter Score (NPS) addition to quantitative feedback, analysing customers. For example, it will allow us to will improve in both the office premises business and the shopping responses to open-ended questions provides anticipate changes in our customers’ busicentre business. valuable information that helps improve ness premises needs at an earlier stage. customer insight. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 31 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX CASE A green our choices. This is reflected in our property are no waste bins at the employees’ workstachoices as well as our production operations. tions. Instead, all waste is recycled via a sorting multispace Estradi is a certified property and our electricity station located in the middle of the office. purchases are 100% renewable. This includes office for KONE the partial use of solar power for purposes such “This encourages our personnel to sort waste as operating the lifts. Good public transport correctly. We are a paperless office, and many links were also a significant factor in our deciemployees not having their own designated When KONE Elevators was looking for new busision,” says Niko Väisänen, Sourcing Category workstation also supports our goals. There ness premises a few years ago, the company Manager at KONE Elevators. is much less paper accumulated on desks had two key criteria: the property needed to be when people change from one workstation to located close to convenient transport links and Estradi is LEED Platinum cerfified, which ® another based on their needs and the situation. it had to match the company’s green values. becomes obvious as soon as you enter the Paper is mainly used when it is required by the A modern, certified property or a new building building. Väisänen says the company is proud law or necessitated by our business needs,” nearing completion would fit the bill. The choice to show customers and other stakeholders Väisänen explains. was Estradi, which was under construction around the property, as this conveys a strong in Helsinki’s Pohjois-Haaga district and set to impression of the company’s green values. The The multispace office also promotes combecome one of the most energy-efficient office building’s stylish design also contributes to the fort and satisfaction at work, which is a high buildings in Finland. The company’s long history positive customer experience. priority for KONE. It allows people to work in of co-operation with Sponda gave it the opporquiet areas when necessary, or get together in tunity to influence the design and construction SHARED WASTE SORTING STATION a group to discuss things. of the premises. At Estradi, like other newly constructed properties, issues such as waste sorting and recycling All in all, Estradi has been an excellent choice “Being responsible and environmentally friendly were taken into consideration right from the for KONE Elevators. The carefully thought-out are important elements of our company values, design phase. KONE Elevators has taken its premises have significantly improved the Estradi, Aku Korhosen tie, Helsinki and we want our actions to match our words. commitment to recycling beyond the building’s customer experience. We support sustainable development through waste management facilities. For example, there SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 32 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Arvoketju Investing in employees Investing in employees Ongoing objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 We develop skills and — Progress made accorSkilled and motivated employees are Sponda’s most important practices for shading to plan resource. We invest in our professionals by placing a high priority on Asiakaspolku ring knowledge and expertise as well as our culture of interacg occupational well-being and a positive work atmosphere as well as tion and feedback Investing in good — The total number of by developing our managementLogistiikka practicesTekniset andjärjestelmät managerial work. Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola leadership by utiliUutiskirje Ympäristöpalvelut Kiinteistökehitys personnel training days Sponda strives to maintain a high level of occupational well-being and a positive work sing evaluations of managerial work and g was 178.5, of which 16% were training days for coaching middle management professional competence among its employatmosphere by highlighting each employWe promote occupa— Mobile virtual coaching ees and ensure their occupational well-beee’s individual responsibility. tional wellbeing and programme introduced ing and ability to cope with the demands Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Sosiaalitilat individual responsibility for maintaining a g for use by personnel of work by organising regular training and We made progress towards these objectives Vesi Ympäristösertifikaatti positive work atmos-Extranet Jätehuolto phere actively monitoring the work ability of perin line with our plans, and we will continue We invest in providing — The number of training sonnel. The equal and non-discriminatory to promote the same themes this year. A key development and days was 178.5 and treatment of employees and ensuring occupational safety are also core themes of our instrument in these development efforts is the annual employee satisfaction survey, training opportunities for our personnel g all of the company’s employees participated in performance and human resource strategy, and we monitor which measures employee satisfaction, the development reviews Auto Metro Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue these aspects regularly. effectiveness of the organisation and the culture of interaction and feedback. Based annual performance and development one of Sponda’s key elements for ensuring FOCUS ON AN OPEN AND DISCUSSIONon feedback received from our personnel, we reviews. All of the company’s employees the occupational well-being of personORIENTED FEEDBACK CULTURE have prepared plans for each unit to support participated in performance and developnel, and we engage in close co-operation For our responsibility priority of investing the development of these areas. We actively ment reviews in 2017. with our occupational healt partners. The in employees, our objectives for 2017 were surveyed our employees’ views of their investments in occupational healthcare Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability to develop management practices and physical working environment in 2017 and INVESTMENTS IN OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH have proved to be profitable, as the rate of improve managerial work. The goal was to the results will be utilised in the future to ARE REFLECTED IN LOW ABSENTEEISM sickness absence has remained at a low develop management to ensure the compeimprove job satisfaction. We invest heavily in the occupational level at Sponda. We also continued to invest tence required by the company’s objectives well-being of our personnel and provide in comprehensive occupational well-beas well as invest in good leadership by utiSponda also monitors employee satisfacdiverse support to help our employees cope ing and motivation in 2017 by providing lising evaluations of managerial work and tion, the achievement of individual targets with the demands of work. Comprehenrecreational benefits to support sports and coaching. A further goal was to promote and personal development by conducting sive occupational health services remain cultural activities. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 33 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX In autumn 2017, the employees were given specifically for each employee. The compait also presents interesting opportunities. access to a virtual coaching programme ny’s environmental targets are also a key Faced with changes, our employees have in the form of a mobile application that component of the incentive scheme. The continued to work with flexibility, professupports their day-to-day well-being. The incentive scheme was unchanged in 2017. sionalism and ambition, which we are very application gives all Sponda employees the proud of. Co-operation and shared goals are PERSONNEL, SPONDA GROUP* opportunity to learn more about holistic One of Sponda’s key objectives for HR manessential in implementing changes, and our well-being, improve their work ability, set agement in 2018 is to support employees on highly competent employees remain one of Persons weekly goals and establish healthy habits a day-to-day basis through good leadership our key strengths going forward. 120 both on and off work, all year round. We also and management. We will also continue to 100 introduced a mobile system for monitoring develop competence management and occu80 working hours, which makes it even easier to pational well-being in 2018. Objectives for 2018 60 take advantage of flexible time arrangements. • Developing competence 40 With the change in ownership, the past year 20 Sponda also supports the motivation and also brought changes in Sponda’s operating management 0 commitment of personnel. We use an incenmethods. We will continue to develop these • Investing in good leadership 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 tive scheme that covers the entire personnel further this year. The renewal of operating • Developing occupational and is based on the company’s common methods always requires employees to have well-being * 31 Dec 2017 goals and on personal annual targets set a flexible attitude towards changes, but AGE RATIO, SPONDA PLC* PERSONNEL GROUPS, SPONDA PLC* EDUCATIONAL STRUCTURE, SEX RATIO, SPONDA PLC* SPONDA PLC* Persons % 50 20 40 15 30 10 20 10 5 0 at io n ia 0 D Pev ro el pe ss O ff ic e op r t m yen tr is Sh Pr op er t Ru 9 4 9 4 9 4 9 0 op pi ng tie s in Ce –2 –3 –3 –4 –4 –5 –5 >6 m I n Pr ve o p nt re s Ad University education 47% College education 35% Men 44% 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 In st er m ty en Pr v e s t s op tm er e tie nt s Polytechnic qualification 17% Other 1% Women 56% 31 Dec 2016* 31 Dec 2017* * 31 Dec 2017 * Sponda’s business units changed in 2017 * 31 Dec 2017 * 31 Dec 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 34 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Transparent and ethical operations Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys Our responsibility is reflected in the principles that guide our Transparent and ethical operations Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 operations, our transparency and our excellent success in Maintaining an excelThe results of the CDP Excellent level Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut lent level in internaUutiskirje Climate and GRESB Kiinteistökehitys achieved in the international surveys. Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Extranet tional sustainability Jätehuolto assessments sustainability assessments will remain at an excellent level P CDP Climate and GRESB assessments The GRESB assessment, which measures Sponda has sought to improve the energy Operating in accorNew Supplier Code Supplier Code sustainability in the property sector, once efficiency of properties through the comdance with ethical of Conduct principles of Conduct was Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehi again produced great results for Sponda in 2017. Our result wasLämpöenergiankulutus the best in Europe pany’s energy efficiency programme since Neuvottelutilat Lämpö/jäähdytys 2009. These active efforts Vesi reflectedSosiaalitilat were in Ympäristösertifikaatti principles Extranet Jätehuolto implemented and incorporated into new and renewed agreements g drafted within our peer Auto group, and we were Metro also the results Raitiovaunu the international ofJuna Bussi CDP CliPyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Measuring customer Indoor environment Two extensive awarded the title of Sector Leader for the mate assessment in 2017. The CDP Climate satisfaction regarding satisfaction surveys indoor environyear. We received a full five-star assessment assessment evaluates companies’ measthe quality of the conducted at two ment satisfaction and, for the fifth year running, a Green Star ures to mitigate climate risks by means of Lämpöenergiankulutus Neuvottelutilat Sponda’s properties Lämpö/jäähdytys indoor environment at Sponda-owned properVesi ties at a minimum P Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti surveys were conducted Extranet Jätehuolto for our sustainability efforts. Our ratings a survey that was completed by more than improved year-on-year in almostAutoall of the Metroa thousandRaitiovaunu businesses around Juna the world in Bussi Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue Monitoring the opera— The level of maincategories covered by the surveyAPK Kauppapaikat but, relative Facebook 2017. WeEnergia ja sähkö maintained ourAulapalvelu excellent LeaderYhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability ting model, control and tenance services to the sector average, we took especially significant leaps in areas such as managship A-level, ranked first in Finland in our sector and also placed among the leaders Auto monitoring of property maintenance Metro services Raitiovaunu Juna Bussi P improved Pyörä Lentokone Parkkialue ing sustainability risks and opportunities, in the Real Estate peer group in the Nordic measuring and decreasing the environcountries. Improvement in tenant — Customer feedKauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys satisfaction regarding Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability back improved mental impact of the company’s real estate portfolio, environmental certifications of property services g compared to the previous year Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondabilit buildings, and interaction with stakeholders. Conducting main— Regular mainteWe also clearly distinguished ourselves from the peer group with regard to environmental tenance and energy reviews at properties P nance and energy reviews were conducted at responsibility in property development. g properties SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 35 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX A RESPONSIBLY MANAGED CO-OPERATION and energy efficiency. We also require our NETWORK partners to take the objectives and operatCompanies, organisations and authorities in ing principles defined in Sponda’s environthe construction and property sector play an mental responsibility into account in their important role in preventing the grey econoperations. Sponda’s service providers must CASH FLOWS BETWEEN STAKEHOLDERS IN 2017 omy and commercial crime. We promote satisfy the provisions laid out in the responsible ways of working in the property Finnish Act on the Contractor’s Obligations sector in co-operation with our contractors. and Liability when work is contracted out with respect to activities such as the use of Customers Revenues 263.7 M€ The goal of our purchasing strategy is external labour. to produce high-quality property mainSuppliers tenance services in an optimal manner. CONTINUING IMPROVEMENT IN PROPERTY Purchases 101.3 M€ (38.4%) * MANAGEMENT SERVICES • Purchases, maintenance 91.8 M€ (34.8%) * We also take energy efficiency and envi• Purchases, administration 9.5 M€ (3.6%) * ronmental impacts into consideration in In Sponda’s purchasing and quality process, property development projects, service the improvement of the quality of property Customers and society Sponda production, renovation projects as well as management and maintenance services Property development investments 99.7 M€ (37.8%) * during the use of properties. Our purchascontinued in 2017. ing strategy also defines service provider Personnel selection criteria and service evaluation Sponda’s properties and property services Personnel expenses 14.9 M€ (5.7%) * criteria, and covers the development of are managed by a partner network comcontract models for property services. This prising tens of suppliers. In line with our Public sector ensures that contracts provide incentives values, we pay particular attention to the Public sector 15.9 M€ (6.0%) * * Of total revenue. and guidance for producing consistent reliability of service providers and the qualquality and improving service solutions. ity of the services they produce. In 2017, this was reflected, among other things, as We require our contractual partners to improved feedback on customer satisfachave effective environmental systems or tion with regard to property maintenance programmes that define the operating prinand property services. ciples for managing environmental issues SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 36 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX In addition to customer feedback and conAs the significance and demand for transtinuous reporting data, the quality of propparency in business operations increases, the erty services is actively monitored by means supply chain’s role in companies’ responsiof property audits, indoor environment bility efforts grows in importance. Sponda is satisfaction questionnaires and service expea significant purchaser that works in close rience surveys. According to the information co-operation with an extensive network of obtained from the surveys, the quality of subcontractors. In 2017, purchases from supSponda’s maintenance services has conpliers represented 25 per cent of Sponda’s tinued to improve. Sponda will continue to total revenue, while property development arrange and systematically develop property investments accounted for 37 per cent. audits and service production training. Ensuring transparent and ethical operations THE RESPONSIBILITY OF SPONDA throughout the supply chain is a significant AND ITS PARTNERS aspect of responsibility, and the entire supply Sponda’s operations and responsibility are chain must be committed to ethical and guided by the company’s strategy, values and transparent business. To incorporate responCode of Conduct as well as the principles of sibility into our co-operation even more the UN Global Compact. We continuously extensively than before, we drafted a Supdevelop our responsible operating methods. plier Code of Conduct for our subcontractors Sponda provides an anonymous feedback in 2017. Our objective for 2018 is to put the channel for employees to report suspected Supplier Code of Conduct into practice. misconduct via the company intranet or e-mail. No reports were received via the whistleblowing channel in 2017. All Sponda employees completed Code of Conduct training in 2015. New employees receive Code of Conduct training as part of their MOW Stargate, Porkkalankatu 22, orientation programme. Helsinki SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 37 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX CASE The surrounding cities and their development have a significant Shopping centres impact on the present situation and future of The best shopping centre in the Nordic counSponda and Lassila & Tikanoja. The coordinator shopping centres, but tries, the 50th birthday of a new-look classic, was introduced at Citycenter in 2017 and at shopping centres also two international BREEAM environmental the Forum shopping centre at the beginning of shape the cities around ® certificates and continued improvement in 2018. The practice has produced good results waste sorting and environmental efficiency – in a short span of time: Citycenter’s recycling them. Sponda’s shopping centres had many reasons to rate improved by five percentage points from celebrate in 2017. January to December 2017 and by as much as nine percentage points year-on-year. A LIVELY AND RESPONSIBLE FIFTY-YEAR-OLD “All Citycenter tenants have reviewed the customer experience. With this in mind, job One of the two Sponda shopping centres that details of waste sorting and the processing of satisfaction and occupational well-being have were awarded a BREEAM® environmental cergoods at the loading platform with the envibeen promoted by introducing new bicycle tificate in 2017 was Citycenter, which also celeronmental coordinator. This is a big property parking facilities and social facilities as well as brated its 50th anniversary. Among other things, with lots of users, so there is a lot of work to do, by organising parties for the shopping centre’s the shopping centre has improved its energy but we are pleased that our recycling rate has employees. efficiency and reduced water consumption. This already improved,” says Tiina Fågel, Shopping progress helped it achieve official certification. Centre Manager at Citycenter. The restaurant world that opened its doors on One significant renewal measure was the provithe second floor of the shopping centre late sion of guidance on waste-related issues by an The actions and commitment of the employees in the year also represents an important new Forum shopping centre, Helsinki environmental coordinator at shopping centres, of the shopping centre’s tenant companies is chapter for Citycenter. Citycenter’s concrete which was initiated in co-operation between significant not only to recycling, but also the exterior ledge, the “sausage” that gives the SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 38 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Sausage Building its nickname, is a famous and “Forum is a place that young people are comfortinto account well ahead of time, and good widely discussed landmark in central Helsinki. It able in, whether they are in the role of customer, co-operation with the City resulted in a new was dressed in a celebratory costume selected employee or Helsinki resident. Our co-operation pedestrian crossing being added to the busy in a design competition to mark the shopping project with the City of Helsinki helps young Mannerheimintie to improve safety. centre’s anniversary. Designed by Eveliina Juuri, people between the ages of 19 and 28 find the competition’s sustainable winning entry, work. More than 300 young people attended our “We are continuously involved in the developwas created by recycling old billboard materials. recruitment event last year. We are also active in ment of the city centre in various ways. This The lace-like pattern was inspired by the tiling anti-bullying campaigns and we organise events includes Christmas lights campaigns and all of of the adjacent Keskuskatu street. An urban that attract young people, such as the Dream kinds of events. It is vital that central Helsinki festival was also held on Keskuskatu as part of project in co-operation with the Finnish Children is attractive to local residents, customers the celebrations. and Youth Foundation,” Hatakka adds. and tourists, but we also have a role to play in creating that attraction,” says Pia Rosvall, FORUM IS THE BEST SHOPPING CENTRE IN The BREEAM environmental certificate awarded ® Marketing Manager at Forum. THE NORDIC COUNTRIES to the Zeppelin shopping centre in Kempele is Forum, which had previously achieved BREEAM® testament to the responsible and environmenThe property life cycle is also shaped by the certification, was selected as the best shopping tally friendly operations of the largest shopping surrounding city and the broader world. Somecentre in the Nordic countries in 2017. This was centre in Northern Finland. Among other things, thing that is original and prestigious can also the first time the award was won by a Finnish the shopping centre organises a recycling day be part of something new and full of activshopping centre. The Nordic Council of Shopping twice a year in addition to day-to-day waste ity. For example, 1970s concrete elements Centers (NCSC) jury praised Forum, which is one sorting efforts. Zeppelin has also implemented revealed in a renovation project can be seen of Finland’s oldest shopping centres, not only for more energy-efficient building technology and with fresh eyes, and an office property characits capacity for renewal and ability to respond to low-consumption plumbing fixtures. terised by the functionalist style of a bygone the challenges of the future, but also for honourera can, in the right hands, evolve into a new ing the original architecture of the property. PART OF THE CITY AND URBAN LIFE hub that is full of life. Reconciling the old and The surrounding cities and their development the new is also a big theme in Tampere, where “The shopping centre is built from white Italian have a significant impact on the present situaSponda’s newest shopping centre, Ratina, is marble and the Forum block includes several tion and future of shopping centres, but shopcurrently nearing completion in the immediate prestigious centenarian buildings. The jury also ping centres also shape the cities around them. vicinity of the city’s historic industrial heart. recognised Forum’s active efforts to improve For example, the Western Metro Extension The grand opening of Tampere’s largest shopyouth employment. Young people have held a that opened in late 2017 has already resulted ping centre will be celebrated in spring 2018. key role in Forum’s responsibility efforts for a long in a substantial increase in Citycenter’s visitor The new restaurant world at time,” says Shopping Centre Manager volumes. At Forum, the plans for the City Citycenter brought street food to the middle of a shopping centre. Katja Hatakka. Rail Loop commuter line have been taken SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 39 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Taking the industry forward The future of work, the digital transformation and climate change Taking the industry forward Ongoing objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2017 pose challenges to companies, but also the property sector. The Being the most reliable, — Business profitability, demand for flexible and energy-efficient premises is constantly profitable and responsible player in the property sector P industry-leading score in the GRESB sustainability assessment growing due to the changing needs of today’s businesses. Promoting best practices — Opportunities for using Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut in the property sector to support sustainable Uutiskirje development Kiinteistökehitys g new technology at properties Sponda has continued the systematic Finnish Association of Building Owners and development of company’s coworking conConstruction Clients (RAKLI). RAKLI’s goals Active participation in Active participation We were active particiRAKLI and GBC Finland in RAKLI and GBC pants in the activities of g cept MOW (Mothership of Work). Sponda’s include preventing the grey economy and activities and projects Finland activities RAKLI’s sector-specific and projects management teams and second MOWhub opened its doors in Helevaluating the actual tax base of propercommittees and GBC sinki’s Ruoholahti district in 2017. MOWs ties, which is influenced by factors such as Finland’s committees are also a focus area of Lämpöenergiankulutus our strategy: ourNeuvottelutilat higher Lämpö/jäähdytys energy taxes. Vesi Sosiaalitilat Ympäristösertifikaatti Promoting Jätehuolto— Extranet responsible Progress in environmeoperating methods in ntal partnerships and third MOW will open this year at the new Ratina shopping centre in Tampere. MOWs Logistiikka Tekniset järjestelmät Toimistot In 2017, we were one of RAKLI’s partners at Kinteistöt Lounasravintola Ympäristöpalvelut Uutiskirje Kiinteistökehitys co-operation with our customers and contg responsibility-related co-operation with custoractors mers and contractors represent a flexible response to the needs ReCoTech, the construction and property of various companies. The same facilisector’s meetup organised as an official parties can be shared by freelancers and the allel event to the Slush startup event. The We also contributed to KTI Property Infora number of years, while also promoting development teams of majorAuto corporations. Metro aim of theRaitiovaunu event, which was Junaco-operatively Bussi mation’sPyörä Parkkialue Lentokone Responsible annual publication industry-wide practices for implementing Our goal for the future is to further expand organised by construction and property secProperty Business, which highlights current sustainable development. We have created Lämpöenergiankulutus the MOW Neuvottelutilat network. Lämpö/jäähdytys Vesitor Sosiaalitilat operators, was to Ympäristösertifikaatti forge new partnerships Extranet issuesJätehuolto related to responsibility in the indussolutions that consume even less energy and create new ideas by bringing together try as well as good examples and experithan indicated by energy consumption DEVELOPING THE INDUSTRY THROUGH COproperty sector leaders and startups. GBC ences of promoting responsibility. limits. We have improved the energy effiOPERATION Finland, which focuses on sustainable ciency of office buildings and reduced their Kauppapaikat APK Facebook Energia ja sähkö Aulapalvelu Yhteisöllisyys Kartta/hakupalvelut Spondability We are actively involved in the developdevelopment, the environmental certifiA RESPONSIBLE INDUSTRY FORERUNNER environmental impacts. Our new internament of the property sector in co-operation cation of properties and energy-related Sponda is an industry forerunner when it tional owner brings a new perspective and Auto Metro Raitiovaunu Juna with other industry influencers. Among practices inBussi Pyörä the property sector, is another Lentokone comes Parkkialue to energy efficiency. We have invested new expertise to Sponda that will help us other organisations, we are members of the key co-operation forum for Sponda. in our energy efficiency programme for continue to take the industry forward. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 40 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX CASE MOW ushers in the future of work and brings people together Pieni Roobertinkatu was a relatively quiet street The future of work poses challenges to busi“For many people, especially those in the just a few years ago, but nesses, employees and properties. Operators younger generations, the boundary between MOW has brought an across various industries are looking for new work and free time is quite blurred. The factors ways of working, which means that business behind this development include the increased injection of life to not premises must become increasingly versatile use of project-style work and the view that there only this old building, and flexible. Sponda is a pioneer in the develis no need to draw a sharp line between one’s but also the entire opment of coworking spaces in Finland. We professional persona and private identity. These street. launched our first inspiring hub, the Mothership trends are taken into consideration in the MOW of Work (MOW), in 2015. concept, which includes a variety of traditionally recreational activities such as yoga, cooking MOW is much more than a workspace for comclasses and urban agriculture,” says Nina Ruotpanies of various sizes. MOW offers services to salainen, the Commander of the MOW fleet. users ranging from meeting rooms to IT support environmental management system. Many and children’s day care to electric vehicles. Sustainability and green choices are integral companies have joined the MOWs specifically The underlying idea is heavily focused on the aspects of the MOW concept. MOW Motherbecause of their high environmental standards. community, meaning people and organisations ship on Pieni Roobertinkatu and MOW Stargate, This is increasingly important to the branding MOW reflects our shared that share not only physical space, but also which opened its doors in Ruoholahti in 2017, and strategy of today’s companies, and the values and the desire to further similar values and the desire to develop the both have BREEAM® environmental certificates MOWs receive a lot of development ideas from develop the work community. work community. and they comply with the WWF Green Office the companies that use their services. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 41 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX MOW BROUGHT LIFE TO PIENI renovated old functionalist building that is part ROOBERTINKATU of the Ratina shopping centre, which will open Before MOW’s arrival, the former headquarters its doors in Tampere this year. of a telecommunications company, built in the late 1950s and located on Pieni Roobertinkatu “Just as in Helsinki, in Tampere it is important in Helsinki’s Punavuori district, was an old-fashto consider the environment we are in and the ioned property in need of a comprehensive people who will work at the MOW there. Local makeover. The premises were far from the insight is crucial for making the MOW attraceasiest project in terms of satisfying the needs tive and creating the right atmosphere. We of today’s property market, but they were an are not simply copying our MOWs in Helsinki excellent fit with Sponda’s new MOW concept. and opening them in new locations,” says Miia The fully renovated MOW premises can be Lasaroff, Business Unit Manager, Coworking adapted to various needs. MOW has brought life Offices at Sponda. to the entire neighbourhood. “Pieni Roobertinkatu was a fairly quiet street just a few years ago, but MOW has brought an injection of life to not only this old building, but also the entire street. Among other things, we have organised a street festival in co-operation At its best, the MOW with our neighbours, and our inner courtyard is open to the public in the summer,” Nina Ruotconcept can elevate salainen explains. the value of an entire city district and bring At its best, the MOW concept can elevate the value of an entire city district, bringing new life new life to dormant to forgotten neighbourhoods. However, this neighbourhoods. does not mean that MOW is a cookie-cutter MOW’s street party brought a splash concept. MOWs are always adapted to their of colour to Pieni Roobertinkatu. specific location and users. The latest member of the MOW family will be located in a fully SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 42 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX KEY FIGURES We at Sponda are working to anticipate the directions of urban development and what kind of businesses, housing and commercial premises will be around us. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 43 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX The scope and principles of the report DESCRIPTION OF THE REPORT Sponda’s Sustainability Review 2017 meets “Our responsibility Priorities”” describes the in Finland in which Sponda’s ownership This Sustainability Review contains general the reporting requirements of the UN Global results and measures taken by Sponda in is at least 50 per cent. The reporting does information about the economic, social and Compact initiative. 2017 in the area of corporate responsibility. not cover properties leased cold, meaning environmental impact of Sponda’s opera• A chart showing the correspondence properties in which the tenant is responsible tions between 1 January and 31 December ASSURANCE between the GRI aspects defined as matefor property maintenance, energy purchasing 2017, unless otherwise indicated. Selected information from the Finnish verrial, GRI standard guidelines, and Sponda’s or waste management. The exception to this sion of the sustainability review regarding sustainability reporting can be found in rule is the Zeppelin shopping centre located SCOPE OF REPORTING energy, water, emissions and waste managethe GRI Index. in Kempele, which is reported in full even for Sponda reports on its responsibility accordment have been assured by an independent • Reporting boundaries corresponding to the the real estate companies in which Sponda’s ing to the Core guidelines of the Global third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, and material aspects of corporate responsibilownership is less than 50 per cent. The scope Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability congruence between the Finnish and English ity are presented at Sponda website. of the environmental indicators is calculated Reporting Standards 2016. The GRI Conversions has been checked. The assured as a share of Sponda’s total property portfostruction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures information is identified in the GRI Content SCOPE OF THE REPORT AND DATA lio on 31 December 2017 and depends on the COLLECTION reporting guidelines have also been applied Index. The external assurance report is proindicator being reported. in this report. In particular, the CRE individed at the end of the Sustainability Review. The figures that appear in the report are cators related to the real estate sector are based on the figures of Sponda’s operations From the beginning of 2014, office premises reported on where applicable. REPORT STRUCTURE in Finland, unless otherwise indicated. located in 16 investment properties are Sponda’s Sustainability Review for 2017 folFigures for the company’s subsidiaries are included in the offices segment and retail In addition to the GRI reporting guidelines, lows the GRI Standards reporting guidelines. mentioned separately. Unless otherwise premises as part of the shopping centres certain portions of the report also comply Sponda’s Sustainability Review is divided indicated, there have been no changes from segment. In assessing the scope, divided with the European Public Real Estate Assointo the following main sections: the previous report with regard to the scope properties are only included once in the ciation (EPRA) recommendations (EPRA Susor method of calculation of the reporting overall property portfolio. Unless otherwise tainability Best Practices Recommendations • The strategic significance of responsibility principles. mentioned, any references to the property Guidelines, 2017), separately indicated in to Sponda is discussed in the Our Approach portfolio refer to the portfolios included in the GRI Index. Sponda’s Consolidated Finansection ofthe Sustainability review. The CALCULATION PRINCIPLES FOR the aforementioned portfolio list. ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING cial Statements, which are referred to in the same section also describes Sponda’s Sustainability Review, are IFRS (International approach to corporate responsibility. The calculation of environmental indicaThe scope of environmental indicators as Financial Reporting Standards) compliant. • In the Sustainability Review, the section tors takes into account properties located a share of the completed properties owned SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 44 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX by Sponda is presented separately for each There is a certain degree of annual variabilSponda monitors the development of the lio. Of these, 125 properties are subject to reporting section below. ity in Sponda’s property portfolio due to sales environmental indicators for its head office hourly monitoring, while consumption at and purchases as well as extensive renovaseparately. The consumption figures for the three properties is monitored by means of Sponda’s reportable environmental indicators tion projects, which affect the comparability head office are presented in separate tables manual meter reading. are related to energy consumption, water of the annual environmental indicators. For in the report. consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and this reason, environmental indicators are Cooling is monitored separately for those waste management. reported for all properties as well as like for Sponda monitors the development of enviproperties that use district cooling. If cooling like properties. Like for like consumption is ronmental indicators separately for the propis performed by compressors, it is included The primary reporting period for environreported separately for the following envierties in which the customers are Sponda’s in the electricity consumption. mental indicators is five years, consisting of ronmental indicators: energy consumption, environmental partners. The calculation is the reporting year and the four preceding water consumption, carbon footprint, total based on Sponda’s environmental partners The unit used in monitoring the consumpyears. The following exceptions apply to the waste management volumes and recovery as of 31 December 2017. tion of purchased energy is the MWh. Total reporting periods: rates. The absolute consumption figures energy consumption is also reported in GJ for electricity, heating, water and cooling in The 87 per cent coverage of Sponda’s energy using the conversion rate 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ • Like for like consumption figures are pre2016 have been reviewed and retrospectively efficiency programme is calculated based (Source: IEA, International Energy Agency). sented for two years. adjusted, and previously missing consumpon gross leasable properties, i.e. Sponda’s The denominator used for calculating • Segment-specific consumption figures are tion has been added in. For these reasons, fully owned properties. There are 115 such specific consumption is the gross floor area. presented for two years. the consumption figures for 2016 are not properties according to the property list. Data on gross floor area (GFAm2) corresponds • The calculation of Sponda’s indirect carfully consistent between 2016 and 2017 Susto consumption data. Properties that were bon dioxide emissions began in 2014. The tainability Reviews. ENERGY sold or bought, properties that were covered reporting period for the information in The energy consumption of Sponda’s by consumption monitoring for part of the question is four years. The total figures for energy consumption properties consists of purchased energy, year and properties under renovation are not intensity and like for like carbon dioxide electricity, heating and district cooling, as included in the calculations on consumption Sponda’s key environmental indicators are emissions also include properties that joined well as solar power produced on site. During intensity. Energy consumption is divided by reported as total figures as well as segthe district cooling network during the year, the reporting year, Sponda had on-site solar the number of Sponda’s properties excludment-specific figures. During the reporting as district cooling is seen as a replacement for power production at one property. ing sold properties and properties included year under review, the segment-specific cooling based on electricity consumption. The under property development (major new reporting included Office Properties, Shopping denominator used in calculating the specific Energy consumption monitoring extends to construction and renovation projects). The Centres and Logistics Properties. In assigning consumption figures for all environmental all properties for which Sponda is responsifigures presented by segments do not include properties to segments, investment properties indicators is the gross floor area (GFAm2). The ble for energy purchasing. A total of 128 of properties under property development. are assigned to the segment that corresponds gross floor area figures from 2017 have been Sponda’s fully or partially owned real estate to their primary use, also for the properties updated and these changes have also been companies were subject to energy conWATER that are divided between the Office Properties updated to the 2016 specific consumption sumption monitoring in 2017, representing Water consumption monitoring extended segment and the Shopping Centres segment. figures that are divided by the gross floor area. 96 per cent of Sponda’s property portfoto 126 of Sponda’s fully or partially owned SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 45 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX properties in 2017, representing 94 per cent country-specific emissions data (marketand cates of origin for Nordic wind power) and emissions data on leased cars and kilometres of Sponda’s property portfolio. Of these, 121 area-specific calculation). At present, Sponda electricity produced by Sponda itself from driven per year. Indirect greenhouse gas properties are subject to hourly monitoring, does not report on greenhouse gas emissions renewable energy sources has been deducted emissions are reported at the company level. while consumption at five properties is monother than carbon dioxide, or their global from the CO2 emissions figures reported by itored by means of manual meter reading. warming potential. Sponda. In 2017, they represented 3.1 per The use of renewable energy sources includes cent of Sponda’s total emissions caused by solar power generated by the properties WASTE Greenhouse gas emissions have been calelectricity consumption (1 117 t CO2 Guaranthemselves as well as electricity and heating Information on waste covers all properties culated for electricity and district cooling tee of Origin certificates + 1,7 t CO2 renewaproduced from renewable energy sources and for which the responsibility to arrange waste based on measured consumption data and, ble electricity production). purchased from energy companies. management lies with a Sponda-owned for district heating, based on normalised property or mutual real estate company. (weather-adjusted) consumption. The norFor the sake of comparison, Sponda’s total EARLIER REPORTS The monitoring extended to 123 properties, malisation of consumption is based on the CO2 emissions are also reported using FinThe previous sustainability review was pubrepresenting 92 per cent of the properties heating requirement figures reported by the land’s country-specific factor for electricity lished as a part of Sponda’s Annual Review owned by Sponda at the end of 2017. Waste Finnish Meteorological Institute, which faciland heating production (Source: Motiva Oy). in February 2017. Sponda reports on its procovered by tenants’ own waste management itates year-to-year comparisons of heating Due the unavailability of a country-specific gress in terms of responsibility each year. agreements is not included in the reporting. consumption. factor for district cooling production, the The reported information on waste is based reporting is based on a supplier-specific factor. Sponda’s annual sustainability review also on waste volumes reported by waste manThe calculation of CO2 emissions for 2017 is serves as a Communication on Progress agement service providers. based on emission factors reported by the With respect to indirect greenhouse gas (COP) report on the implementation of the suppliers of purchased energy in 2016. The emissions (Scope 3), Sponda reports on carUN Global Compact principles. There were CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS emission factors are reported in the Key bon dioxide emissions from waste manageno changes in COP reporting in 2017 comGreenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) totalled figures and GRI – index section of the Susment, business air travel and leased cars. pared to the previous year. zero during the reporting period. Sponda has tainability Review . Data for other reported Waste management emissions are the most no direct greenhouse gas emissions. years has been calculated using the actual significant of Sponda’s Scope 3 emissions emission factor for each year. The CO2 emisand their emissions calculations are based Greenhouse gas emissions from purchased sions for 2016 have been updated accordon the GHG protocol. Emissions calculations energy (Scope 2) have been calculated by ing to the emission factors for 2016. The for waste management cover 100% of the multiplying energy consumption (MWh) by emission intensities and origin of electricity waste management Sponda is responsible the emission factor corresponding to its proare based on the production breakdown of for, including waste transportation as well duction (kg CO2/MWh) The emissions have electricity produced in Finland, deducted as treatment. Emissions from business air been estimated using two methods, based by the amount of electricity produced from travel are based on flight miles and the emison information reported by the suppliers of renewable energy sources of verified origin. sion factors reported by airlines. The emispurchased energy and based on Finland’s The share of guarantees of origin (certifisions from leased cars are based on Sponda’s SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 46 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Sponda’s responsibility key figures 2017 2016 2015 Enhancing the customer experience Overall satisfaction index regarding co-operation with the lessor 3.93 3.79 3.74 Personnel People Power index 67.1 70.6 71.5 Environmental responsibility * Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2 201.3 194.0 199.2 Total CO2 intensity, kg CO2/GFAm2 44.3 42.6 39.5 Total waste recovery rate, % 100 100 97 Material reuse and recovery rate, % 47 46 46 Water intensity, l/GFAm² 271.0 249.6 265.0 * Sponda owned properties located in Finland. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 47 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Change, 2016-2017, % Number of properties 2017 Total energy consumption, all properties, MWh 294,388 293,485 269,813 329,343 380,264 0.3 Total energy consumption, all properties, GJ 1,059,798 1,056,546 971,327 1,185,635 1,368,950 Total energy consumption, like-for-like properties, MWh 252,293 257,367 -2.0 Total energy consumption, like-for-like properties, GJ 908,253 926,520 Self-generated electricity from renewable sources, MWh 6 6 Purchased electricity, MWh 126,760 127,960 111,502 150,072 189,710 -0.9 128 Tenants' electricity purchased by landlord, MWh 36,787 32,441 Electricity consumption in common areas, MWh 89,973 95,519 Electricity, like-for-like properties, MWh 104,149 108,603 -4.1 120 Heating, normalised, all properties, MWh 155,893 153,160 150,185 169,453 180,608 1.8 124 Heating, normalised, like-for-like properties, MWh 139,667 139,348 0.2 117 Heating, measured, all properties, MWh 144,136 146,900 122,769 152,469 164,415 -1.9 124 Heating, measured, like-for-like properties, MWh 129,119 133,810 -3.5 117 District cooling, all properties, MWh 11,729 12,359 8,126 9,818 9,946 -5.1 24 District cooling, like-for-like properties, MWh 8,477 9,416 -10.0 22 Water, all properties, m * 3 382,151 366,747 327,161 365,682 381,496 4.2 126 Water, like-for-like properties, m3 310,660 305,885 1.6 115 * Supplied from a municipal or city water supply network. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 48 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption intensity of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 201.3 194.0 199.2 201.0 226.3 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 86.7 81.3 82.9 77.9 111.6 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 110.7 110.6 116.5 109.9 107.1 Heating intensity, measured, kWh/GFAm²/year 102.3 106,3 95.2 99.1 97.5 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 19.3 19.4 26.4 32.0 27.8 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 271.0 249.6 265.0 253.3 229.7 Energy and water consumption of Sponda’s properties by main segment Office properties Shopping centres Logistics properties 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % Total energy consumption by main segment, MWh 185,251 185,919 -0.4 48,130 52,196 -7.8 18,911 19,251 -1.8 Electricity, MWh 75,042 78,167 -4.0 23,304 24,508 -4.9 5,804 5,927 -2.1 Heating, normalised, MWh 105,696 102,660 3.0 20,864 23,365 -10.7 13,108 13,324 -1.6 Heating, measured, MWh 97,552 98,529 -1.0 19,471 22,480 -13.4 12,096 12,801 -5.5 District cooling, MWh 4,513 5,093 -11.4 3,963 4,323 -8.3 Water, m3 231,529 227,671 1.7 63,654 64,926 -2.0 15,476 13,287 16.5 Energy and water consumption intensity of Sponda’s properties by main segment Office properties Shopping centres Logistics properties 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % Energy intensity by main segment, kWh/GFAm2 /year 178.4 179.1 -0.4 284.4 280.6 1.3 188.6 191.8 -1.7 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 72.6 75.3 -3.6 145.0 131.8 10.0 57.8 59.0 -2.1 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 107.4 104.7 2.6 115.6 125.6 -7.9 129.2 134.3 -3.8 Heating intensity, measured, kWh/GFAm²/year 99.1 100.4 -1.3 107.3 120.9 -11.2 118.9 129.0 -7.8 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 12.2 13.8 -11.4 30.9 37.1 -16.9 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 244.0 244.2 -0.1 411.6 349.1 17.9 112.2 126.6 -11.4 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 49 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Energy and water comsumption of Sponda’s head office Energy sources and emission factors Change 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016-2017, % 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total energy consumption, MWh 1,056 1,101 1,017 1,195 1,165 -4.1 Purchased electricity Electricity, MWh 324 339 327 362 349 -4.6 Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 282 282 278 216 217 Heating, normalised, MWh 681 697 647 715 707 -2.3 Renewables, % 13 13 11 17 17 Heating, measured, MWh 625 680 551 657 668 -8.1 Non-renewables, % 45 45 43 33 35 District cooling, MWh 52 65 43 118 109 -20.2 Nuclear power, % 42 42 46 50 48 Water, m3 1,542 1,838 1,523 1,613 1,674 -16.1 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 181 181 209 220 Heating Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption intensity of Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 187 188 144 151 162 Sponda’s head office Renewables, % 15 15 14 7 6 Non-renewables, % 85 85 86 93 94 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 176 176 183 186 Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 179.2 186.8 172.5 202.7 197.7 District cooling Electricity intensity, kWh/ Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 68 68 62 67.5 59 GFAm2/year 54.9 57.6 55.5 61.4 59.2 Renewables, % 88 88 86 81 76 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 115.5 118.2 109.8 121.2 119.9 Non-renewables, % 12 12 14 19 24 Heating intensity, measured, Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 68 68 62 67.5 kWh/GFAm²/year 106.0 115.4 93.3 111,4 113.3 The share of renewable energy of Sponda total energy usage 17% District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 8.8 11.0 7.3 20.0 18.5 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 261.6 311.8 258.4 273.7 283.9 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 50 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland Carbon dioxide emission intensity from energy consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland Change 2016Change t CO2 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017, % kg CO2/GFAm2/year 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016-2017, % Total carbon footprint from energy conTotal CO2 intensity, 44.3 42.6 39.5 33.3 41.3 4.0 sumption, 64,681 64,636 52,503 58,382 69,753 0.1 CO2 intensity from electricity 24.3 22.7 23.1 16.8 24.1 7.2 Electricity 35,803 36,137 30,998 32,135 41,167 -0.9 CO2 intensity from heating 20.8 20.9 16.9 16.0 16.5 -0.8 Heating 29,200 28,760 21,560 25,584 27,999 1.5 CO2 intensity from district District cooling 797 841 504 663 587 -5.1 cooling 1.3 1.3 1.6 2.2 1.6 -0.2 Fuels 0 0 0 0 0 CO2 emission reductions from Guarantee of Carbon dioxide emission intensity from the energy Origin renewable energy certificates and consumption of Sponda’s head office self generated renewable energy -1,119 -1,102 -559 Change Total, like-for-like properties (excluding) * 56,565 57,715 -2.0 kg CO2/GFAm2/year 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016-2017, % Total, like-for-like properties(including) ** 55,445 56,614 -2.1 Total CO2 intensity from head Total, location-based 51,179 50,959 51,292 64,911 0.4 office energy consumption 19.4 20.5 26.0 26.3 26.2 -5.1 * Excluding Guarantee of Origin certificates and self generated renewable energy. CO2 intensity from electricity 0.0 0.5 15.4 13.3 12.8 -100.0 ** Including Guarantee of Origin certificates and self generated renewable energy. CO2 intensity from heating 18.8 19.3 10.1 11.6 12.2 -2.3 Carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of Sponda’s head office CO2 intensity from district cooling 0.6 0.7 0.5 1.4 1.1 -20.5 Change 2016t CO2 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017, % Sponda’s indirect carbon dioxide emissions Total carbon footprint from head office energy consumption * 112.7 120.7 153.2 154.8 154.2 -6.6 Change t CO2 2017 2016 2015 2014 2016-2017, % Total carbon footprint from head office energy consumption ** 207.7 215.7 153.2 154.8 154.2 -3.7 Total indirect carbon dioxide emissions 350.1 311.9 376 420 12.2 Electricity 93.2 97.7 91.0 78.2 75.7 -4.6 Emissions from waste management 190.4 166.6 225 253 14.3 Heating 111.0 113.6 59.5 68.6 72.0 -2.3 Emissions from leased cars 93.8 85.5 70 102 9.7 District cooling 3.5 4.4 2.7 8.0 6.4 -20.5 Emissions from business travel (flights) 65.9 59.8 81 65 10.2 CO2 emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin certificates -95.0 -95.0 * Including emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin renewable energy certificates. ** Excluding emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin renewable energy certificates. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 51 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Carbon footprint arising from energy consumption of Sponda’s properties by main segment Carbon footprint arising from energy consumption of Sponda’s Carbon dioxide emission intensity from energy consumption of Sponda's properties in Finland by main segment properties in Finland by main segment (t CO2) (kg CO2/GFAm2/year) 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % Office Properties 41,665 41,959 -0.7 40.1 40.4 -0.6 Shopping Centres 10,369 11,149 -7.0 62.2 59.9 3.7 Logistics Properties 4,531 4,608 -1.7 44.4 45.8 -3.0 Sponda’s energy efficiency programme 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Change 2016-2017, % Number of properties included in Sponda's Energy Efficiency Programme at the end of the year 100 106 109 113 109 -6 Share of properties included in the programme, % of the total property portfolio 87 91 88 88 76 -4 Annual energy saving achieved by the energy efficiency programme, MWh -3,707 1,772 -6,543 -133 1,898 -309 Annual energy saving achieved by the energy efficiency programme, GJ -13,345 6,380 -23,555 -480 6,833 -309 Number of energy reviews conducted per year 62 91 95 68 18 -32 Sponda’s Environmental partnership 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Change 2016-2017, % Total energy consumption of Sponda's environmental partners, MWh 92,451 98,689 91,769 69,076 76,606 -6.3 Electricity, MWh 38,109 40,527 37,492 29,754 36,279 -6.0 Heating, normalised, MWh 49,098 52,918 49,474 33,621 39,522 -7.2 District cooling, MWh 5,244 5,244 4,803 5,701 804 Water, m3 132,101 134,828 122,227 94,582 104,923 -2.0 CO2 emissions, t CO2 18,241 19,545 16,661 11,067 12,975 -6.7 Number of environmental partners 23 24 23 22 20 -4.2 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 52 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Waste volumes of Sponda’s properties in Finland, tonnes Waste recovery rates of Sponda’s properties in Finland, % 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total 7,217 6,571 6,297 6,591 6,796 Overall waste recovery rate 100 100 97.1 96.0 Non-hazardous waste 7,199 6,562 6,290 6,584 6,788 Waste recovery rate, Helsinki metropolitan area 100 100 99.9 98.0 Energy recovery * 3,963 3,610 3,264 3,394 2,845 Waste recovery rate, rest of Finland 100 100 80.0 79.0 Material Recovery 2,005 1,929 1,917 1,972 1,996 Energy recovery 54.9 54.9 51,8 52.0 Paper 378 476 576 620 686 Energy recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area 54.7 55.2 54.5 54,0 Paperboard 1,303 1,135 971 1,011 1,014 Energy recovery, rest of Finland 56.2 53.2 34.0 38.0 Cardboard 92 102 118 134 128 Material recovery 45.1 45.0 45.3 44.0 Glass 91 78 76 78 81 Material recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area 45.2 44.8 45.2 44.0 Metal 103 87 65 59 57 Material recovery, rest of Finland 43.8 46.8 45.7 40.0 Plastic 1 2 2 2 4 Mixed waste to landfill 0.0 0,0 2.9 4.0 Sludge 21 31 92 53 0 Mixed waste to landfill, Helsinki metropolitan area 0.0 0.0 0.1 2.0 Other waste ** 16 19 17 15 26 Mixed waste to landfill, rest of Finland 0.0 0.0 20.0 21.0 Composting 1,230 1,022 928 932 991 Mixed waste to landfill 0 1 181 286 955 Hazardous waste 18 10 7 6 8 Energy recovery 1 Material Recovery 17 10 7 6 8 Total carbon dioxide emissions arising from waste CO2 190 167 225 253 * Between 2013 and 2016 due to changes in the reporting, the reported number may include hazardous waste. ** Wooden pallets and other wood waste. Year 2013 also includes construction waste. This includes Sponda-owned properties where the property owner is responsible for waste management. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 53 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility key figures Total like-for-like waste volumes and recovery Waste volumes by main segment of Sponda’s properties rates of Sponda’s properties in Finland in Finland in 2017, tonnes 2017 2016 Office properties Shopping centres Logistic properties % t % t Energy recovery 2,212 1,596 156 Total like-for-like waste weight 5,918 5,432 Material recovery 1,575 1,573 104 Total like-for-like, Helsinki metropolitan area 5,030 4,710 Mixed waste to landfill 0 1 Total like-for-like, rest of Finland 889 722 Energy recovery, like-for-like 53 3,165 54 2,932 Energy recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area 53 2,665 54 2,545 Energy recovery, rest of Finland 56 499 53 386 Material Recovery, like-for-like 47 2,752 46 2,500 Material recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area 47 2,363 46 2,164 Material recovery, rest of Finland 44 389 47 336 Mixed waste to landfill, like-for-like 0 1 0 1 Mixed waste to landfill, Helsinki metropolitan area 0 1 0 1 Mixed waste to landfill, rest of Finland 0 0 0 0 Waste volumes and recovery rates of Sponda’s head office 2017 2016 2015 % t % t % t Total 66.9 71.7 76.9 Energy recovery 46 30.9 43 31.0 40 30.9 Material recovery 54 35.9 57 40.6 60 45.9 Mixed waste to landfill 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 54 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Social responsibility key figures Key figures for the personnel 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Group company Russia Group company Russia Group company Russia Group company Russia Group company Russia Personnel at the year-end 106 102 3 102 96 3 103 96 7 105 95 10 118 109 9 In average 106 101 3 107 98 5 103 94 9 118 108 10 121 111 10 Average age 46.35 46.40 50.5 45.68 46.30 42.67 44.55 44.80 41.14 43.52 45.63 41.40 40.54 45.40 35.67 Days lost in sickness in average 5.67 5.83 0.00 2.64 2.80 0.00 2.41 2.55 0.43 3.85 4.00 2.40 4.36 4.43 3.18 Days lost in sickness, % 2.58 1.23 1.12 1.60 Training days in average 1.91 1.75 8.00 1.92 1.79 8.00 2.30 2.07 5.43 2.19 1.75 6.4 2.16 2.03 4.07 Training hours per employee 14.33 13.13 60.00 14.41 13.44 60.00 17.26 15.55 40.69 16.45 13.13 48.0 16.19 15.2 30.54 Days lost in trainings, % 0.77 0.79 0.91 Collective bargaining agreements and employee turnover Days of training by personnel group, parent company % of working hours Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements * 100 % Total Men Women men women Turnover, Finland (Parent company) 13.24 % Middle management 28.2 21.9 6.3 0.97 0.97 In employment relationships that are valid indefinitely 99.02 % Experts 104.0 49.9 54.1 0.82 0.82 In fixed-term employment relationship ** 0.98 % Parent company, total 178.5 76.4 102.1 0.77 In full-time employment relationship 97.06 % Only personnel groups with three women and three men at minimum reported. In part-time employment relationship 2.94 % * The collective labor agreement covers all personnel in Finland excluding the Executive Board. ** Fixed-term employment relationships are family leave substitutions exceeding 6 months in Sick days by personnel group, parent company duration. % of working hours Total Men Women men women Middle management 33 27 6 1.19 0.33 Experts 266 207 59 3.39 1.31 Parent company, total 595 370 225 2.58 Only personnel groups with three women and three men at minimum reported. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 55 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Social responsibility key figures Job satisfaction and security, Finland, parent company Employees that left the company in 2017, Finland, parent company Age group Total Men Women Accident frequency under 0.0001 under 20 0 0 0 Occupational diseases 0 20 24 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 25 29 1 0 1 Number of discrimination cases, their handling and related corrective 30 34 4 2 2 action, amount of cases 0 35 39 1 0 1 40 44 2 0 2 45 49 3 1 2 Employees hired in 2017, Finland, parent company 50 54 0 0 0 yli 55 2 1 1 Age group Total Men Women Total 13 4 9 20 24 0 0 0 25 29 1 0 1 30 34 4 2 2 Comparison of salaries and rewarding of men and women 35 39 3 2 1 Comparison group I. experts 40 44 1 0 1 The salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men Basic salary Rewarding 45 49 3 0 3 2017 89.91 69.93 50 54 3 1 2 2016 90.19 70.28 yli 55 1 0 1 2015 101.25 86.42 Total 16 5 11 Comparison group II. middle management The salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men Basic salary Rewarding 2017 90.82 74.07 2016 85.89 72.56 2015 89.27 85.59 The comparison includes task-specific groups with three women and three men at minimum. The comparison figure has been calculated on the principle of how many per cent the average salary and rewarding for women is of the corresponding salary and rewarding for men. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 56 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Economic responsibility key figures Group key figures * Key financial figures 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Key figures per share 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Income statement key figures 17. Basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to parent company 1. Total revenue, M€ 263.7 259.0 230.5 246.7 264.3 equity holders, € (EPS) 0.65 0.41 0.78 0.24 0.34 2. Operating profit, M€ 173.5 206.7 178.1 151.7 153.0 18. Equity per share, € 4.49 5.16 5.26 4.65 4.64 3. % of total revenue 65.8 79.8 77.3 61.5 57.9 19. Dividend/Board’s proposal, € 0.941) 0.081) 0.19 0.19 0.18 4. Total amount of financial income 20. Dividends paid during the financial and expenses, M€ -75.2 -51.2 -48.9 -55.9 -59.8 year 1.142) 0.312) 0.19 0.18 0.17 5. Profit/loss for the period, M€ 224.5 137.5 227.2 73.6 103.1 21. Dividends paid during the financial 6. % of total revenue 85.1 53.1 98.6 29.8 39.0 year 0.24 Balance sheet key figures ¹) Board proposal 7. Shareholders’ equity, M€ 1,527.8 1,849.9 1,585.0 1,411.5 1,409.3 ²) Includes dividends paid based on authorisation granted by General Meeting 8. Investment properties, M€ 3,935.3 3,755.5 3,101.7 3,142.1 3,253.3 9. Total liabilities, M€ 3,259.5 2,066.6 1,856.0 2,037.7 2,062.5 10. Interest-bearing liabilities, M€ 3,186.4 1,862.5 1,660.9 1,731.2 1,788.8 11. Interest-bearing net liabilities, M€ 2,457.3 1,849.6 1,440.9 1,710.8 1,770.0 Profitability and financial key figures 12. Return on capital employed, % 4.19 6.0 5.8 5.4 5.5 13. Return on equity, % 13.29 8.0 15.2 5.2 7.2 14. Equity ratio, % 32.0 47.4 46.2 41.0 40.7 Other key figures 15. Gross expenditure on non-current assets, M€ 154.5 686.8 111.4 185.1 54.8 16. % of total revenue 58.6 265.2 48.3 75.1 20.7 * The financial figures related to the reporting year are comprehensively presented in the company financial statements 2017, which is available at Sponda web site https://investors.sponda.fi/en/reports-and-presentations. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 57 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX GRI Index This review has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The review presents the General Standard Disclosures according to the GRI Standards as well as the Topic specific content concerning the management approach, environmental, economic and social indicators. In addition to the GRI reporting guidelines certain portions of the review also comply with the European Public Real Eastate Association’s (EPRA) recommendations on sustainable reporting (2017). General disclosures Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments Organisation 102-1 Name of the organization p. 4, 66 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 4, 66 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 66 102-4 Location of operations p. 27, 55, Report by the board of directors and financial statements p. 4, 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form Report by the board of directors and financial statements p. 4, 7 102-6 Markets served p. 4, 27 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 4, 34 Yes 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 34, 55–56 Yes 102-9 Supply chain p. 35–36, https://www.sponda. fi/en/responsibility/spondability/supply-chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply p. 4, 7 Sponda’s entire share capital was acquired by Polar chain Bidco S.à r.l., representing the private equity firm Blackstone. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the board of directos Yes and financial statement p. 8 102-12 External initiatives p. 16, 21, 35–37 Cert-tot LEED® and BREEAM® environmental certifications 102-13 Membership of associations p. 13, 40 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Included Partly included 58 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX General disclosures Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 7–9 Yes The company’s senior management approves the report. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 14, 18, https://www.sponda. fi/en/responsibility/spondability/materiality-analysis Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior p. 15–16, https://www.sponda. Yes fi/en/sponda-company/strategy/vision-mission-and-values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics p. 16, 37 Yes Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure https://investors.sponda.fi/en/ governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Report by the board of directors and itscommittees and financial statements, p. 7 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Report by the board of directors and financial statements, p. 7 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 55 Yes 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 13, https://www.sponda.fi/ Stakeholders were reviewed in conjunction with en/responsibility/spondability/ the Materiality Analysis conducted in 2014. materiality-analysis 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised https://www.sponda.fi/en/ Yes responsibility/spondability/ stakeholders Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Report by the board of directos statements and financial statement, p. 64–68 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p. 44–46, GRI content 102-47 List of material topics p. 44–46 102-48 Restatements of information p. 44–46 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Included Partly included 59 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX General disclosures Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments Reporting practice 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 44–46 102-50 Reporting period p. 44–46 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 44–46 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 44–46 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 60, GRI content Sustainability manager hannamari.koivula(at)sponda.fi 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI p. 44–46 Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 58–63 102-56 External assurance p. 44–46, 64–65 Certain energy, emissions and waste data in Finnish has been assured by an independent third party. Topic specific content Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 44–46 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 14, 15, 16, 33, 36–37, https:// www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/environment/energy-and-environmental-efficiency 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 15, 33 Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 57, Report by the board of directos and financial statement, p. 13 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities p. 14, https://www.sponda.fi/ Partially reported. The implications of climate change are due to climate change en/responsibility/environment/ assessed as part of Sponda’s regular risk assessment. energy-and-environmental-efficiency SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Included Partly included 60 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Topic specific content Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported p. 27 Sponda has no assessment programmes related to the needs of local communities. Evaluated during new construction and major renovation projects. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts p. 36 The extent of impacts has not been specifed. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption p. 37 Yes Code of Conduct training policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 37 Yes No incidents of corruption in 2017 Environmental standards GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 21–24, 47–50 Yes Elec-Abs, Yes Sponda did not have any energy prodution or fuel conDH&C-Abs, sumption of its own during the reporting period. The share Fuels-Abs, or renewable energy of total energy consumption during the reporting year is 17 per cent. Elec-LfL DH&C-LfL Fuels-LfL 302-3 Energy intensity p. 22, 47, 49 Yes Energy-Int Yes Energy intensity refers to the energy consumption of Sponda-owned properties in proportion to the property’s gross foor area. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 21–24, 47–50 Yes Yes Includes the reduction in energy consumption achieved through Sponda's Energy effciency programme. The monetary savings achieved through energy conservation measures are not reported. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and p. 21–24, 47–50 Yes Yes Includes the changes in certain environmental impacts services achieved through Sponda's Environmental Partnership Programme compared to the previous year. Covers Sponda’s environmental partners in 2017. GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 22, 47–50 Yes Water-Abs, Yes Water-LfL SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Included Partly included 61 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Topic specific content Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 51 Yes GHG-Dir-Abs, Yes Sponda did not have any direct greenhouse gas emissions GHG-Dir-LfL during the reporting period. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 51–52 Yes GHG-Indir-Abs, Yes Covers carbon dioxide emissions during the reporting GHG-Indir-LfL period. Based on both the emission factors of energy supplier and country specific emission factors. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 51–53 Yes GHG-Indir-Abs, Yes Covers carbon dioxide emissions during the reporting GHG-Indir-LfL period. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 47, 51–52 Yes GHG-Int Yes Greenhouse gas emissions intensity refers to the carbon dioxide emissions caused by the energy consumption (Scope 2) of Sponda-owned properties in proportion to the properties’ gross foor area. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 21–24, 51–53 Yes Yes Includes the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions achieved through Sponda's Environmental Partnership Programme (Scope 2). Covers Sponda’s environmental partners in 2017. GRI 306: Effluent and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 23, 47, 53–54 Yes Waste-Abs, Yes Waste-LfL GRI 308: Supplier environmental assesment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental p. 36, https://www.sponda.fi/ Yes No assessments. Requirements towards environmental criteria en/responsibility/spondability/ responsibility included in contracts with contractors. The supply-chain significance of environmental responsibility and environmental responsibility in Sponda's procurementr practises are described. CRE1 Building energy intensity p. 21–23, 47–51 Energy-Int GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures CRE2 Water intensity p. 21–22, 47–50 Water-Int GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity of building’s energy p. 21–23, 47, 50–52 GHG-Int GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures consumption CRE8 Certificates p. 8, 11, 19, 21, 24, 27–28, 32, Cert-tot GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures 38–39, 41, https://www.sponda. fi/en/responsibility/environment/environmental-certification SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Included Partly included 62 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Topic specific content Location in the Sustainability External Pursuant to EPRA Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Review assurance recommendation Compact Comments Social Standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 33–34, 55–56 Yes GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational p. 55–56 An accurate breakdown cannot be provided due to the diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of small number of the reporting groups. work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 55–56 Yes 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition p. 33–34 Yes If an employment relationship is terminated on the emassistance programs ployer’s initiative for a reason deriving from the employer, the employee is offered the opportunity to participate in employment search training and career counselling. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular p. 33–34 Yes All of Sponda’s personnel are, according to strategy, performance and career development reviews covered by performance reviews. GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 33–34 Yes 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to p. 56 Yes men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 56 Yes No incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. GRI 412: Human rights assesment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or p. 37 Yes procedures GRI 414: Supplier social assesment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria p. 35, https://www.sponda.fi/ No assessments. Occupational safety practises in Sponen/responsibility/spondability/ da’s procurement procedure are described. Sponda’s supply-chain procurement procedures and practices concerning the prevention of the grey economy and financial crime are described. Also included in the Sponda Supplier Code of Conduct to be implemented in 2018. GRI 416: Customer heath and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of p. 35, https://www.sponda.fi/ No assessments. Health and safety practises in Sponda’s product and service categories en/responsibility/spondability/ procurement procedure are described. Also included in supply-chain the Sponda Supplier Code of Conduct to be implemented in 2018. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 Included Partly included 63 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report (TRANSLATION FROM THE FINNISH ORIGINAL) TO THE MANAGEMENT OF SPONDA PLC Sector Disclosures of the Global Reporting PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies InterAssurance Engagements ISAE 3410 “AssurWe have been engaged by the ManageInitiative as well as the EPRA Best Pracnational Standard on Quality Control 1 and ance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas ment of Sponda Plc (hereinafter also the tices Recommendations on Sustainability accordingly maintains a comprehensive Statements”. These Standards require that Company) to perform a limited assurance Reporting (September 2017) of the European system of quality control including docuwe plan and perform the engagement to engagement on selected environmental Public Real Estate Association. The Manmented policies and procedures regarding obtain limited assurance about whether the indicators (hereinafter Selected environagement of Sponda Plc is also responsible compliance with ethical requirements, Selected environmental indicators are free mental indicators) for the reporting period for such internal control as the manageprofessional standards and applicable legal from material misstatement. 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, ment determines is necessary to enable the and regulatory requirements. disclosed in Sponda Plc’s Sustainability preparation of the Selected environmental In a limited assurance engagement the Review 2017 on the Company’s website. indicators that are free from material misPRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY evidence-gathering procedures are more The assured information is indicated in the statement, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility is to express a limited limited than for a reasonable assurance Company’s GRI index 2017. assurance conclusion on the Selected engagement, and therefore less assurance PRACTITIONER’S INDEPENDENCE environmental indicators based on the is obtained than in a reasonable assurance MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY AND QUALITY CONTROL procedures we have performed and the eviengagement. An assurance engagement The Management of Sponda Plc is responWe have complied with the independence dence we have obtained. We conducted our involves performing procedures to obtain sible for preparing the Selected environand other ethical requirements of the Code limited assurance engagement in accordevidence about the amounts and other mental indicators in accordance with the of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by ance with the International Standard on information in the Selected environmental Reporting criteria as set out in Sponda Plc’s the International Ethics Standards Board for Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (revised) indicators. The procedures selected depend reporting instructions described in SponAccountants, which is founded on funda“Assurance Engagements Other than Audits on the practitioner’s judgement, including da’s Sustainability Review 2017, the Global mental principles of integrity, objectivity, or Reviews of Historical Financial Inforan assessment of the risks of material misReporting Initiative Standards Guidelines professional competence and due care, mation”, and, in respect of greenhouse statement of the Selected environmental and the G4 Construction, Real Estate confidentiality and professional behaviour. gas emissions, International Standard on indicators. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 64 YEAR 2017 OUR APPROACH OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES AND GRI INDEX Our work consisted of, amongst others, the When reading our assurance report, the following procedures: inherent limitations to the accuracy and • Interviewing a representative of senior completeness of sustainability information management of the Company. should be taken into consideration. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office. • Interviewing employees responsible for Our assurance report has been prepared in collecting and reporting the Selected accordance with the terms of our engageenvironmental indicators at the Group ment. We do not accept, or assume responlevel. sibility to anyone else, except to Sponda • Assessing how Group employees apply Plc for our work, for this report, or for the the reporting instructions and proceconclusions that we have reached. dures of the Company. • Testing the accuracy and completeness Helsinki, 14 March 2017 of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a Sirpa Juutinen sample basis. Partner Sustainability & Climate Change LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Sponda Plc’s Selected environmental indicators for the reporting period ended 31 December 2017 are not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2017 65 Sponda Plc P.O. Box 940, FI-00101 Helsinki Tel. +358 20 43131 www.sponda.com
