Integrated Report 2018 Contents Company Introduction Business Base (Related ESG) 3 Materiality 64 Corporate Governance System 4 The driving force of Eisai: “human health care (hhc)” 68 Interview with Outside Director 8 Eisai’s Strengths 70 Board of Directors and Executive Officers 10 History of Eisai 74 Compliance & Risk Management 78 Partnerships Management Strategies 80 Quality Assurance, Stable Supply, 12 CEO Message Safety Information Management for Products 18 Value Creation Process and Flow 82 Business with Consideration for the Global Environment 20 Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ 84 Initiatives for Achieving 22 Strategy for the Development Sustainable Development Goals （SDGs）and of Human Resources Contributing to Global Compact 26 Interview: Seeking Integration Appendix of ESG and Corporate Value 32 Financial Strategy 86 Major Products 88 Consolidated Financial Highlights Value Creating Activities Results for Fiscal 2017 36 Improving Access to Medicines (ATM) 90 ESG Index 40 Message from Corporate Officers in Charge 92 Major R&D Pipeline of Neurology Area 95 Fundamental Knowledge and Terminology 42 Development of New Potential Dementia Treatments for Pharmaceutical Industry 46 Initiatives for Dementia Area 98 Status of Shares -Offering Solutions that Go Beyond Providing Pharmaceuticals99 Corporate Profile 49 Message from Corporate Officers in Charge /Editor’s Note for Integrated Report 2018 of Oncology Area 54 Global Business Activities 56 Drug Creation Activities 61 Production Activities 62 Marketing Activities ■ Period Covered This Integrated Report covers business performance from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. Some sections may include information on activities as recent as fiscal 2018. ■ Reporting Organizations Eisai Co., Ltd. and domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries ■ Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors Materials and information provided in this Integrated Report may contain “forward-looking statements” based on current expectations, forecasts, estimates, business goals and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from these statements. Moreover, the target values contained in this report merely express medium-term strategies, intended directions and visions and are not an official earnings forecast. For the official earnings forecast, please refer to the annual financial report (Consolidated Financial Statement) in accordance with the rules set by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Factors that could have a material impact on the future outlook include, but are not limited to, changes in the economic environment and competitive pressures surrounding Eisai’s business environment, revisions to laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, uncertainties associated with new drug development and infringements of intellectual property rights by third parties. Although this report contains information on pharmaceuticals (including those under development), the content is not intended for advertising or medical advice purposes. In addition, further details about business risks stated above are described in the Annual Security Report. This English Report was translated from the original Japanese version. In the event of any inconsistency between the statements in the two versions, the statements in the Japanese version shall prevail. ■ Note for Description •Generic names for drugs are given omitting the base or hydrate. ■ Notes for Icons on Each Page •Pages that are strongly related to 6 capitals which comprise Eisai’s corporate value (intellectual capital, human capital, manufactured capital, social and relationship capital, natural capital and financial capital) are marked with corresponding icons. •Pages that are strongly related to 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are marked with SDGs icons. 2 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Materiality Eisai’s corporate philosophy is to give first thought to beneficiaries of residual income, as the important patients and their families. Likewise, Eisai provides stakeholder＊1. Long-term interests of all stakeholders employees, who are the bearer of the patient including patients and employees taken into account, contribution, with opportunities to develop careers and it is believed that identifying the concerns which relate talent. Eisai’s mission is the enhancement of patient to the interests of long-term investors and then taking satisfaction, then revenue and profit are brought about initiatives on a priority basis, is the fast track for the consequently. We place importance on this sequence maximization of corporate value. of placing mission before the ensuing results. Process for Establishing Materiality and Eisai’s On the other hand, in order to sustainably maximize Materiality Matrix are shown below. Reviews and corporate value to fulfil every stakeholder’s satisfaction, updates are undertaken as needed. with the corporate philosophy’s concept of “mission ＊1 C  oncept derived from Enlightened Value Maximization Theory (Michael C. Jensen, 2001) and the results” in consideration, it is regarded to be efficient to focus on the long-term investors, ●Process for Establishing Materiality Process 2: Prioritization of issues and creation of materiality matrix We prioritize issues with a particularly high degree of importance, and then Process 1: Identification of issues create a matrix, from the perspectives of “impact on Eisai’s business” We identify issues giving consideration to various types of considering the corporate philosophy and impact on finances, and of guidelines (e.g., sustainability accounting standards for “interest to long-term investors”, which includes financial reporting, pharmaceuticals by SASB＊2, GRI Guidelines), to Sustainable opportunities to create innovation, and the impact of legal restrictions and Development Goals (SDGs)＊3, to communication with industry norms. stakeholders and to socially responsible investment (SRI) indices (e.g., Dow Jones Sustainability Index). Process 3: Reviews and updates Reviews and updates are undertaken as needed taking into consideration the progress of initiatives toward issues and changes in the business environment. ＊2 SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) is a U.S.-based non-profit organization that identifies materiality by industry for reasonable investors and develops sustainability disclosure standards. ＊3 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of international goals under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015. For details, please refer to page 84. ●Eisai’s Materiality Matrix Figures in parentheses indicate the corresponding pages of this report. ■Improving access to medicines ■Creating innovative medicines (P.15-17,29,36-39,79) (P.12-14,40-45,49-53,56-63, Very High ■Offering solutions that go beyond 92-94) providing pharmaceuticals (P.46■Safety information management for 48) products (P.81) ■Provision of opportunities to ■Corporate governance system develop careers and talent for (P.64-67) ■Compliance and risk management Interest to long-term investors employees (P.7,22-25) (P.74-77) ■Financial strategy (P.26-35) ■Ethical and transparent drug creation activities (P.60) ■Protection and reinforcement of intellectual property (P.60) ■Appropriate pricing＊6 ■Business with consideration for the ■Promoting diversity (P.23) ■Promotion based on compliance＊7 global environment (reduction of CO2 ■Supporting employee health (P.24) ■Quality assurance and stable emissions, waste reduction, Efficient and safety management＊4 supply (P.80) use of water resources)(P.82-83) ■Prevention of bribery and corruption (P.75) ■Information disclosure＊5 ■Initiatives against counterfeit drugs High (P.80) High Impact on Eisai’s business Very High ＊4 Please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Web site ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/health_safety/index.html ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/cgguideline.html ＊5 Please refer to Article 11 of Eisai’s Corporate Governance Guideline ＊6 Please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Web site ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/marketing/index.html ＊7 Please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Web site ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/management/compliance/index.html 3 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 The driving force of Eisai “human health care (hhc)” • Established the corporate philosophy in 1992, which is understood and internalized as our core value by employees, both in Japan and overseas •A  ll employees are encouraged to spend 1% of their total business hours to interact with patients • Incorporated the corporate philosophy into the Company’s Articles of Incorporation in June 2005 • More than 300 hhc activities are carried out globally every year Eisai’s corporate philosophy reflects our commitment to business activities aiming to increase the benefits to patients, their families, and consumers, who we clearly recognize as the key players in healthcare. This Corporate Philosophy is summarized by the term “human health care (hhc).” We believe that in order to truly consider the perspectives of patients and their families, it is important for each employee to first get close to patients and see the situation from their perspectives in order to learn to empathize with thoughts and feelings that might not necessarily always be expressed in words. Accordingly, all employees are encouraged to spend 1% of their total business hours to interact with patients. To commemorate our values and goals, we incorporated the Corporate Philosophy into the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, upon receiving approval at the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting in June 2005. Articles of Incorporation Article 2 Sequence of mission and results based on the hhc Corporate (1) The Company’s Corporate Philosophy is to give first thought to patients and Philosophy their families, and to increase the benefits that health care provides them. Under this Philosophy, the Company endeavors to become a human health care (hhc) company. Mission (2) T he Company’s mission is the enhancement of patient satisfaction. The Company believes that revenues and earnings will be generated by fulfilling Enhancement of patient satisfaction this mission. The Company places importance on this sequence of placing the mission before the ensuing results. (3) The Company strives to fulfill its social responsibilities by positioning compliance (i.e., the observance of legal and ethical standards) as the basis of all business activities. Business activities (4) The Company’s principal stakeholders are patients, customers, shareholders and employees. The Company endeavors to develop and maintain a good relationship with Results stakeholders and to enhance the value of their stake through: 1. Satisfying unmet medical needs, ensuring a stable supply of high-quality products, Sales, profit, etc. and providing useful information on subjects including drug safety and efficacy; 2. Timely disclosure of corporate management information, enhancement of corporate value, and a positive return to shareholders; and 3. Ensuring stable employment, offering challenging and fulfilling duties, and providing full opportunities for the development of employees’ capabilities. 4 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Origin of the corporate philosophy of human health care; “Eisai Innovation” announced in 1990 Haruo Naito, the current Representative Corporate Officer and CEO, was appointed President of Eisai in 1988. It was clear that times were changing, the social climate was shifting, and that these changes were having an effect on people’s perspectives toward work and life. He began transforming the corporate image and challenging employees to adopt new mindsets and attitudes as soon as he began his tenure. Then, in 1990, with Eisai recognizing that patients, their families and the general public should be the most important stakeholders in medical care and for pharmaceutical companies, the company announced the concept of “Eisai Innovation.” This advocated taking pride in achieving business through improving the benefits of these stakeholders and challenged each individual employee to change the way they looked at their jobs, their lives and the world with the message At the start of fiscal 1990, panels “The world is changing. Let us change along with it.” The spirit of this new describing the concept of “Eisai Innovation” were posted at all concept was summarized as human health care (hhc) and incorporated into Eisai offices the company’s Corporate Mission in 1992. The Concept of Eisai Innovation “The World is changing. Let us change along with it.” Eisai regards the patient, his or her family practices. In recognition of the fact that people and people in general as the most important are Eisai’s most valuable resource, all employees “participants” in the health care process. We take should treat each other with respect and maintain great pride in improving the health care for society. open lines of communication. Each person Eisai’s goal of playing a unique role in society must take the responsibility to support his or her can only be accomplished by pursuing the “Eisai colleagues by contributing ideas and constantly Way,” that is, fostering entrepreneurship among encouraging one another. Everyone at all levels its employees. To become a company which can should clearly recognize his or her own goals contribute significantly to society under any medical and what is needed to attain them. Eisai provides care system, we must continually repeat the unlimited opportunities for everyone to experience process of strategy formulation, implementation, a sense of achievement as they strive to meet and review at all levels of our organization. It these goals. Under our concept of “Integrated is also vital for us to recognize the feelings of Group Operations,” or IGO, which links the entire these important health care “participants” and Eisai organization, I want to create a corporate to empathize with them. Our corporate principle environment in which all members of Eisai share a challenges us to be the leader in responding to common mission and set of values, while having their needs. Thus, we must seize every business the freedom and responsibility to set their own opportunity to fulfill this objective. We cannot goals and decide how best to accomplish them. be preoccupied merely with the creation and Society expects us to be an innovator. One of distribution of pharmaceuticals, but need to tackle our strengths is that we are a young, dynamic new business opportunities in health care. In organization with future potential, something that order to be among the 20 leading pharmaceutical does not exist in many older companies. Every one companies in the world by the year 2001, I feel we of us at Eisai must meet society’s expectations. must be able to offer something new and beneficial We must demonstrate our obligation to society, to people in need of health care, in addition to by identifying with the health care “participants,” pharmaceutical products in the broad sense of the developing a response to their needs, verifying the term. social benefits of this response, and finally, Striving to establish the ideal corporate culture, making this response available to the world before Eisai encourages all of its members to develop anyone else. To meet this challenge, every element and exhibit their abilities to the fullest extent. Each of our organization including our employees, our member should continually evaluate whether he corporate atmosphere and emphasis, and our style or she is making the maximum contribution to of doing business, must continually renew itself. It the well-being of the health care “participants.” is in this manner that we will succeed in achieving It is our aim that everyone at Eisai finds a clear our highest goals in the 1990’s and on into the sense of purpose in their work. In a spirit of close next century. This is “Eisai Innovation.” contact and cooperation, all are encouraged to work together as a team, while at the same time Haruo Naito devoting themselves to becoming knowledgeable President and Chief Executive Officer and experienced in the company’s business April 1990 5 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Business model based on hhc CSR CSV hhc Corporate Social Responsibility Creating Shared Value human health care Value: Economic and societal Value: Doing good Value: The common good benefits relative to cost Citizenship, philanthropy, Joint company and community Companies together create value sustainability value creation in tune with community needs Discretionary or in response to Integral to competing No fixation on competition external pressure Profits are gained as the result of Separate from profit maximization Integral to profit maximization common good strived for Agenda is determined by external Agenda is company specific and internally generated Agenda is shared by each company reporting and personal preferences Impact is limited by corporate Realigns the entire corporate Included in the company’s regular footprint and CSR budget budget operating budget Example: Transforming procurement Example: Inputting customer Example: Fair trade purchasing to increase quality and yields needs in the value chain ＊Compiled by Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting based on Michael E. Porter, “Creating Shared Value”, Harvard Business Review, and other resources and revised by Eisai. Supervised by Ikujiro Nonaka, Professor Emeritus of Hitotsubashi University. Eisai’s hhc is different from corporate social responsibility (CSR), which mainly involves social contribution activities including acts of charity that do not directly contribute to business or corporate value. It is relatively close to Creating Shared Value (CSV), a business model that aims to pursue both social value and economic value. Eisai’s mission is to create social value by enhancing patient satisfaction, and economic value in the form of revenue and profit is generated as a result. Eisai places importance on this sequence of placing the mission before the ensuing results. Initiatives to realize innovation based on the theory of knowledge creation Each employee of Eisai seeks to realize innovation that satisfies patients’ needs through daily work by exercising ingenuity based on the theory of knowledge creation with an aim to fulfill hhc, our corporate philosophy. There are two types of knowledge: “tacit knowledge” and “explicit knowledge”. The former is subjective and not easily expressible, while the latter is expressible. The “SECI model” is a core framework of knowledge creation which creates organizational innovation through the repetitive and mutual conversion of tacit knowledge and explicit knowledge. In this model, knowledge creation is captured in four phases. The first phase is “socialization”, a process of building up tacit knowledge through directly sharing experience with others. The second phase is “externalization”, a process of expressing tacit knowledge between individuals through dialogues into concepts or iconography. The third phase is “combination”, a process to combine explicit knowledge of an organizational level into a model, or narrative. The SECI Model fourth phase is “internalization”, Knowledge Creation Spiral a process of creating new tacit Tacit Tacit knowledge through practicing Share direct Express tacit explicit knowledge. It is important Socialization Externalization experience and knowledge to repeat this spiral of four phases build up tacit Environment E O I through dialogue Explicit knowledge I I and reflection Tacit for strategic knowledge creation. (Empathizing) I Individual Group (Conceptualizing) Eisai places particular I I I importance on socialization in understanding the reality Internalization Combination of patients (emotions) and Explicit Practice the E Organize Tacit O G encourages all employees model or G relevant concepts around the world to spend 1% narrative and I G Org. G into a prototype, create new model or of their total business hours to tacit knowledge E G narrative interact with patients. (Practicing) (Modeling) Explicit Explicit I = (Individual), G = (Group) O = (Organization), E = (Environment) 6 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Findings through the Knowledge Creation Survey 2017 confirmed the thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy among employees around the world and their high engagement in Eisai Eisai began conducting the Knowledge Creation Survey targeting approximately 10,000 employees around the world in September 2017. The survey is aimed at ascertaining the current conditions of knowledge creation activities at Eisai and its organizational units and realizing the corporate philosophy. To achieve these aims, Eisai has conducted this survey six times since fiscal 1997 under the supervision of Ikujiro Nonaka, a professor emeritus at Hitotsubashi University. Eisai confirmed the thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy among employees around the world (Figure 1) and their high engagement (attachment or emotional involvement) in the company (Figure 2) based on its analysis of the answers provided to a total of 172 questions asked in the survey. In addition, Eisai found through the survey that the leadership exercised by the top management, middle management and front leaders promoted the spread and practice of the corporate philosophy (Figure 3). Figure 1 : L  evel of Sharing of the Figure 2 : Engagement in Eisai Figure 3 : Leadership Corporate philosophy Completely applicable 5 5 5 ■Top-management ■Middle-management ■Front-leadership Very applicable 4 3.9 3.7 4 3.8 3.8 3.7 4 3.7 3.6 3.7 3.5 3.5 3.6 Applicable 3 3 3 Not applicable 2 2 2 Not applicable at all 1 1 1 Understanding of the Practice of the Satisfaction Pride in Current job is rewarding Making a good goal Creating opportunities corporate philosophy corporate philosophy with the company the company and satisfying 【Figure 1~3: Answer】 【Figure 3. Question】 ■Top-management ■Middle-management ■Front-leadership 5. Completely applicable Making a good goal (Average of 3 questions) 4. Very applicable １. ■ Leads business with his/her value system or a judgment criteria that is based on the common good 3. Applicable ■M  anages your project/team members and their daily work based on his/her value system or a 2. Not applicable judgment criteria that are based on the common good 1. Not applicable at all ■ Applies independent-minded values and judgment criteria in executing daily work ２. ■ Makes business-related decisions from a mediumto long-term perspective while 【Figure 1. Question】 understanding the bigger picture Understanding of the corporate ■ Judges actions and situations in daily work from a mediumto long-term perspective while philosophy (Average of 2 questions) understanding the bigger picture • You believe in the spirit of the corporate philosophy ■ Sees things from a broad view and a mediumto long-term perspective • You can explain what the ３. ■ Articulates the corporate philosophy and vision to demonstrate to employees the value of and corporate philosophy means to future direction of the company your family members, friends, ■ Connects concrete tasks with the corporate philosophy and vision in their daily management and others ■ Conducts daily tasks with the mindset of realizing the corporate vision Practice of the corporate philosophy Creating opportunities (Average of 3 questions) (Average of 2 questions) １. ■■■ Creates first-hand opportunities to see and understand the true thoughts and feelings of • In your daily work, you have patients, their families, and consumers experience that embodies the ２. ■■■ Always respects others and develops trusting relationships with people in different positions company’s philosophy or vision ３. ■ Creates, in a timely manner, opportunities to co-create and collaborate beyond the • In your daily work, you think about whether your work is boundaries of industry-government-academia-civil collaboration consistent with the corporate ■ Creates opportunities to interact with people inside and outside the company to expand networks philosophy or vision ■ Engages in networking with people at all levels of the company to expand relationships At the same time, employees recognized the importance of “socialization”, a process particularly emphasized by Eisai through which they share time with patients and accumulate tacit knowledge. They also showed a tendency to understand the need to raise the accomplishment level of “socialization” (Figure 4). This is presumably because many employees feel the necessity of understanding the true needs of patients through accomplishment of “socialization”. We will revitalize our efforts for “socialization”, as “socialization” lies at the root of Eisai. Figure 4 : L  evel of importance and accomplishment of socialization 【Figure 4. Question】 Extremely important 5 5 Significant majority of time allocated Level of importance and accomplishment of socialization (Average of 8 questions) Very important 4 4.0 4 A large amount of time allocated •Having the opportunity to spend time and share the feelings of excitement, anger, Important 3 2.9 3 A fair amount of time allocated sorrow, and/or happiness with patients, their families, and consumers Not very important 2 2 A little time allocated •Directly sensing the feelings, thoughts, and reality of patients, their families, and Not important at all 1 1 No time allocated consumers Importance level Accomplishment •Understanding the issues and unspoken Importance level Accomplishment level of socialization level of socialization needs of patients, their families, and consumers (8 questions in total) 7 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Taking on the challenge to promptly expand our contributions to patients by leveraging our strengths Eisai’s strengths 1. Thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy and high employee engagement Reference P4-7 Confirmed the thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy and high employee engagement in the company worldwide from the results of “Knowledge Creation Survey 2017” 2. Industry-leading R&D pipeline in the dementia area Reference P13,40-45,92 11 projects under development 6 projects targeting the accumulation of aggressive factors BACE＊1 inhibitor elenbecestat＊2, anti-beta amyloid (Aβ) protofibril antibody BAN2401＊2, 3, anti-Aβ antibody aducanumab＊2, anti-tau antibody E2814, anti-tau antibody BIIB076＊4 and anti-fractalkine antibody E6011 5 projects targeting the transformation of symptoms over time Orexin receptor antagonist lemborexant＊5, novel synapse function modulator E2730, next generation AMPA receptor antagonist E2082, PDE9 inhibitor E2027 and EphA4 synapse modulator ＊1 Beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme ＊2 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊3 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB ＊4 Under development by Biogen Inc. Eisai has an option to jointly develop and commercialize. ＊5 Co-development with Purdue Pharma L.P. 8 3. Abundant experience and knowledge of Reference drug creation and disease awareness activities P13,40-48, 56-57,92 in the dementia area Drug creation activities across more than 35 years in the dementia area Disease awareness events carried out globally over 10,000 times 4. Accumulation of experience and knowledge Reference from global business activities P54-63 ・Drug creation activities ・Production activities ・Marketing activities Commenced overseas operation in the late 1960s Accelerated global operation in mid 1990s Currently established a solid business foundation in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, and Asia 5. Expansion of products developed in-house Reference P56-57, ・Anticancer agent ・Anticancer agent ・Antiepileptic agent 62-63 Lenvima® Halaven® Fycompa® ® (eribulin mesylate) Injection 6. Global partnerships in the areas of neurology Reference and oncology P12-17,29-30, 38,40-41,49-53, 58-59,61-63, Strategic partnerships that enable increased 78-79 probability of success and accelerated development with optimization of development and commercialization expenses ・Neurology area; Biogen Inc. ・Oncology area; Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. 9 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 1960s 1970s 1980s Aiming to Contribute to Patients around the World History of Eisai Progress of Global Expansion ●Late 1960s to early 1970s In 2018, Eisai celebrated the 77th anniversary of its founding. Local subsidiaries established in Southeast Asia Eisai has overcome numerous trials and Commenced full-fledged overseas expansion difficulties to effectively nurture a business environment and corporate culture in which our employees make every effort to see health care from the perspective of the patients. Based on the founding philosophy of contributing to the Creation of Global Brands health and well-being of the many peoples and regions of the world, Eisai will continue to take on ●1980s to early 1990s exciting new challenges in the delivery of novel and innovative drugs. Three-hub R&D network established 1982: Tsukuba Research Laboratories (Japan) 1941: Established Nihon Eisai Co., Ltd. 1989: Eisai Research Institute of Boston, Inc. (U.S.) 1992: Eisai London Research Laboratories, Ltd. (U.K.) 1955: C  hanged corporate name from Nihon Eisai Co., Ltd. to Eisai Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Research Laboratories Eisai Research Institute of Eisai London Research Boston Laboratories At a time when the typical strategy for a Japanese pharmaceutical Founder Toyoji Naito company to expand business overseas was to license out its products to pharmaceutical companies abroad, Eisai was (1889–1978) determined to handle all processes regarding its products on its own, from research, which serves as the fountainhead from which all other product phases flow, through to manufacturing. Driven by this determination, Eisai was one of the first in the industry to establish R&D bases in Japan, the U.S. and Europe and has strived for the creation of global brands. ●1980s Entry into dementia area 1983: Commenced drug discovery research on dementia at Tsukuba Research Laboratories Entry into oncology area Advertisement for Chocola A, the first 1987: Launched R&D group to develop proprietary Chocola brand product launched in 1951 anticancer agents at Tsukuba Research Laboratories Advertisement for Sampoon contraceptive launched in 1948 Cutting-Edge Initiatives as a Global Company ●Early 1990s Birth of the hhc philosophy Initiatives for hhc activities commenced, and 1988: Haruo Naito was appointed President of Eisai the first “Socialization with Patients” programs 1990: Announced the concept of “Eisai Innovation” that were conducted in 1992. Employees challenges employees to change the way they looked understood the true needs of patients through at their job, their life and the world with the message experiences including implementation of care “The world is changing. Let us change along with it.” for patients with dementia, and made use of the experiences in their daily work. 1992: Adopted the corporate philosophy of human health care (hhc) At the time, with Eisai just beginning to expand into overseas markets, this succinct corporate hhc philosophy also served as a common, core value that was universally understood and shared by employees throughout Eisai ＊For further details, please refer to pages 4-7. 10 1990s 2000s 2010s ●Mid 1990s to early 2010s Acceleration in Global Expansion with the extension of treatment for Alzheimer's disease Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet® Establishment of pharmaceutical sales subsidiaries in major countries, including the U.S., Europe, Asia and others ●Late 1990s to 2000s ●2010s Growth of Aricept® and Pariet® Creation of new global brands ＊For further details, please refer to pages 49-51,56-57, 62-63,86-87. Aricept ® Pariet ® (U.S. name: AcipHex®) 2010: Launched anticancer agent 1997: Launched in the U.S. and Europe (U.K.) 1997: Launched in Japan Halaven® in the U.S. 1998: Launched in Asia (Thailand) 1998: Launched in Europe (U.K.) 2012: Launched antiepileptic agent 1999: Launched in Japan 1999: Launched in the U.S. and Asia (Thailand) Fycompa® in Europe 2013: Launched anti-obesity agent Trends in consolidated revenue, and the revenue Peak Sales of major products＊ (Billions of yen) BELVIQ ® in the U.S. Aricept ® ¥322.8 billion (FY2009) Pariet ® ¥175.9 billion (FY2007) 2015: Launched anticancer agent Others Total ¥470.8 billion (FY2009) Lenvima® in the U.S., Global brands (Halaven®, Lenvima®, Fycompa®, BELVIQ®) Japan and Europe Pariet® 2018: Entered into global strategic Aricept® 781.7 803.2 768.9 oncology collaboration for Lenvima 734.3 674.1 with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, 648.0 601.3 573.7 600.4 548.5 600.1 N.J., U.S.A. in March 533.0 547.9 539.1 500.2 466.6 ●2010s Accelerating development of next-generation dementia treatments ＊For further details, please refer to pages 40-45. FY2002 FY2003 FY2004 FY2005 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 ＊Results up to FY2013 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results for FY2014 and beyond were calculated pursuant to IFRS. 2014: Entered a collaboration agreement with Biogen Inc. for the development and commercialization of Alzheimer’s disease treatments ●Late 2000s Loss of Exclusivity 2016: Commenced elenbecestat＊ Phase Ⅲ Strengthened foundation and accelerated studies Aricept® Pariet® development in oncology area 2010 in the U.S. 2010 in Japan 2017: Expanded the agreement with Biogen ＊For further details, please refer to pages 49-53. 2011 in Japan 2012 in Europe Inc. to jointly develop and 2007: Concluded an agreement to acquire 2012 in Europe 2013 in the U.S. commercialize investigational Morphotek, Inc. Alzheimer’s disease treatments, 2008: Completed acquisition of MGI Pharma, Inc. including aducanumab, which is 2010: Established H3 Biomedicine Inc. in the U.S. currently undergoing Phase Ⅲ studies ＊Co-Development with Biogen Inc. ●Late 1990s to 2000s ●2010s Strengthening Compliance Enhancement of Corporate Governance Strengthening Measures to Promotion System Improve Access to Medicines Commenced promotion of full-fledged 2000 ● Introduced the corporate officer system ＊For further details, please refer to pages 36-39. compliance in fiscal 2000 from the ● Appointed outside directors ● Established the Corporate Governance Committee lessons of vitamin lawsuit in 1999 2003 ● Separated the two positions of Chair of the Board of 1999 ● Appointed a director responsible Directors and President (Representative Corporate for corporate ethics Officer) and CEO ● Established Compliance 2004 ● Adopted the “Company with Nomination Committee consisting mainly of Committees, etc.” system outside attorneys ● Appointed 6 (currently 7) out of 11 directors from 2000 ● Formulated Eisai Network outside directors Companies (ENW) Charter of 2005 ● An outside director assumed the Chair of Board of Ceremony for the agreement Business Conduct and ENW Code Directors signing with the World Health of Conduct ● Added the Corporate Philosophy of hhc to the Eisai Organization (WHO) ● Issued the Compliance Handbook Articles of Incorporation (with approval at the (November 2010) ● Set up the Compliance Counter Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting) ＊For further details, please refer to pages 74-77. ＊For further details, please refer to pages 64-69. 11 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 CEO Message To Our Stakeholders Increase Contribution to Patients by Expanding Innovation and Access through Partnership Model We started the medium-term business plan ‘EWAY or a partner doing business alone. In fiscal 2017, we 2025’ in April 2016, which sets out our goal in 10 years’ expanded the existing agreement with Biogen Inc. time to become a “Medico Societal Innovator”, or in to jointly develop and commercialize investigational other words, “a company that changes society through Alzheimer’s disease treatments. Additionally, we creating medicines and providing solutions”. We have concluded new strategic partnerships respectively with selected oncology and neurology as our therapeutic Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. Merck) areas of focus, and have been implementing various in oncology to expand our contribution to patients of efforts to expand our contribution to patients. Lenvima® by increasing indications, and with NichiEisai’s key goal is to increase its contribution to Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for the creation of a patients by expanding innovation and access through new business model focused on a community-based a partnership model. Leveraging synergistic effects, we medical system in Japan. As a result, Eisai’s partnership hope that our partnerships will make our contribution model has greatly expanded the potential for growth. to patients greater than what can be achieved by Eisai 12 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Robust Progress in Development of Next Generation Alzheimer’s Disease Treatments The creation of innovative medicines that fulfill the encouraging results with regulatory authorities to needs of patients is the most important role of a determine the best path forward. pharmaceutical company. Particularly, Eisai’s priority Additionally, two PhaseⅢ studies for elenbecestat is to create new medicines to fulfill high unmet needs in patients with early Alzheimer’s disease are steadily in the dementia area. Despite the estimates that the ongoing. The PhaseⅡ study conducted in the U.S. number of dementia patients is increasing globally, no was the first study of a BACE inhibitor to show a new dementia drug has been approved by the U.S. statistically significant difference in amyloid beta in the FDA since 2003. However, we are convinced that we brain while also suggesting a delay of clinical symptom are capable of succeeding in this challenge, as we decline in exploratory endpoints. have an industry-leading pipeline and possess vast Regarding aducanumab, two Phase Ⅲ studies experience and knowledge in drug creation activities in are steadily ongoing, and patient enrollment was the dementia area. completed in July 2018. In March 2014, Eisai and Biogen Inc. entered into Next generation Alzheimer’s disease treatments a collaboration to develop and commercialize two are expected to alter disease progression from earlier of Eisai’s clinical candidates for Alzheimer’s disease: stages and for longer periods of time, and potentially elenbecestat, a BACE ( β-site amyloid precursor provide new value for patients. We will strive to deliver protein cleaving enzyme) inhibitor, and BAN2401, an new treatments to patients and their families as early anti-amyloid beta (Aβ) protofibrils antibody. In October as possible under the partnership with Biogen Inc. 2017, Eisai exercised its option under the terms of On the other hand, we need to address issues in the agreement to co-develop and co-commercialize infrastructure for the medical/social environment in aducanumab, Biogen’s investigational anti-Aβ order to deliver next generation Alzheimer’s disease antibody for patients with Alzheimer’s disease, and treatments smoothly. The issues to be addressed expanded the existing agreement. The development of include many things, but firstly, we need to conduct three next generation dementia treatments is making disease awareness campaigns in a qualitatively remarkable progress under the partnership with Biogen different way. The major objective of the disease Inc. awareness campaigns when Aricept was launched Regarding BAN2401, the final analysis at 18 in the 1990’s focused on increasing awareness of months of the 856 patient PhaseⅡ clinical study in Alzheimer’s disease itself. However, we need to shift early Alzheimer’s disease demonstrated statistically the focus of disease awareness campaigns to increase significant slowing in clinical decline and reduction of awareness of the potential of modern medical science amyloid beta accumulated in the brain. This is the first that enables early diagnosis and early initiation of late-stage study data that successfully demonstrated treatment for dementia, because current studies show potential disease-modifying effects on both clinical the fact that accumulation of Aβ, sleep disorders function and amyloid beta accumulation in the and behavioral disorders can occur before cognitive brain, and provides compelling evidence to further impairment appears. Additionally, we need to expedite support the amyloid hypothesis as a therapeutic a paradigm shift in diagnosis of dementia. Improvement target for Alzheimer’s disease. We will discuss these of diagnostic scales and development of objective diagnosis methods are necessary for early diagnosis. It is also important to provide more opportunities for diagnosis based on Aβ measurement, by securing insurance coverage for PET imaging and cerebrospinal fluid examination, and to develop blood-based biomarkers. We believe the collaboration with Biogen Inc. is of great importance in addressing these issues. Investigational anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401 13 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Global Strategic Partnership for Lenvima® with U.S. Merck Eisai and U.S. Merck agreed upon a global strategic for 11 regimens in six types of cancer＊, and a basket oncology collaboration for Eisai’s in-house discovered trial targeting multiple cancer types. Regarding coanticancer agent Lenvima® in March 2018. Under the commercialization, U.S. Merck’s strong commercial agreement, Eisai and U.S. Merck are developing and footprint and medical expertise, combined with commercializing Lenvima® jointly, both as monotherapy Eisai’s extensive real-world evidence for Lenvima®, and in combination with U.S. Merck’s anti-PD-1 will expedite patient access worldwide for current therapy, KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab). and future potential indications. We estimate revenue Regarding co-development of the combination and profit will significantly exceed an Eisai sole with KEYTRUDA ®, we are expanding enrollment in development/promotion case with potential expansion an ongoing PhaseⅠb/Ⅱ study and aim to potentially of 11 regimens in six types of cancer and potential obtain early approval of the combination therapy as synergy effects from co-commercialization utilizing a treatment for renal cell carcinoma and endometrial networks of both companies. carcinoma based on Breakthrough Therapy ＊E  ndometrial cancer, head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma Designation. In addition, we aim to realize synergistic and hepatocellular carcinoma effects by simultaneously advancing clinical studies ● Illustration of revenue growth simulation of Lenvima ● Illustration of profit growth simulation of Lenvima ®＊ ®＊ (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Expansion of indications Increase from the collaboration Expansion of access Eisai alone 500 Eisai alone 200 0 0 FY2017 FY2017 forecast FY2021 forecast FY2021 target target ＊ Illustration based on given success case The collaboration with U.S. Merck, who developed and regulatory and sales milestone payments from the anti-PD-1 antibody KEYTRUDA®, is significantly U.S. Merck to Eisai has the potential to reach up meaningful for maximizing the potential of to $5.76 billion U.S. dollars (approximately 611.0 Lenvima® and expediting the creation of innovative billion yen). This collaboration will enable further treatments. By providing new treatment options proactive investment in R&D in the oncology and including for refractory cancers with no hopes for a dementia fields. Accordingly, the achievability of cure to date, we are striving to further contribute to fiscal 2020 target as set in ‘EWAY 2025’ has been increase the benefits provided to patients and their enhanced by enabling operating profit of 100 billion families. yen level on average and 10% level of ROE. The Additionally, this collaboration will have a achievability of ROE target of 15% level in fiscal positive impact on Eisai’s financial position in the 2025 has been enhanced through continuous mediumto long-term. Assuming the achievement growth in revenue and operating profit beyond of all development and commercial goals for all fiscal 2021. indications, the total amount of upfront, option 14 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Strategic Partnership with Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for Creation of a New Business Model Focusing on a Community-Based Medical System in Japan In March 2018, Eisai entered into a strategic alliance focusing on a community-based medical system. agreement with Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. as Currently, further improvement in efficiency is being well as a share transfer agreement for a capital and sought for community-based medical systems business alliance, aiming to reform a business model in Japan. Therefore, the treatment packages we for generics. Both companies will promote cooperation provide in each medical area need to demonstrate in building the Total Inclusive Ecosystem as well as their value in the real world. The contents of the collaboration on the active pharmaceutical ingredient treatment packages in each area will expand with the business promoted primarily at the Vizag Plant in partnership with Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. For India. Under the condition that certain progress will be example, while the number of ingredients in the area achieved by the two companies under the strategic of liver disease marketed solely by Eisai is 37, under alliance agreement, Eisai is scheduled to incrementally the agreement this will be doubled to 74. We aim to transfer shares in its wholly owned subsidiary significantly enhance the value of treatment packages Elmed Eisai Co., Ltd. In April 2019, Elmed Eisai Co., based on outcomes (treatment effectiveness and Ltd. will be a wholly owned subsidiary of Nichi-Iko economy) and access proposals using real world data, Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and subsequently recommend our treatment packages This partnership will bring about a remarkable for health care in each community. advantage for us to create a new business model The Challenge to Develop a New Business Model Establishment of Eisai Dementia Ecosystem Having entered a new era, although so far we have benefits to dementia patients and their families, the paved the way in disease awareness, diagnosis and most important member, through contents provided by pharmaceutical treatment with Aricept® as a global a diverse range of professionals and people who are our pioneer in the field of dementia, we are now putting partners. forth all our efforts to pursue various possibilities in the ●E  isai Dementia Total Inclusive Ecosystem two “Ricchi” of neurology and oncology with product xists with dementia rative nity that coe Dementia-related colllabo ociations, of a commu creation that will open up the path to a new era through ation medica ass Toward cre s with ity, etc. the commun agreement local governments, ratory with ent, industry, Living labo governm ia, etc. and academ d three next generation Alzheimer’s disease treatments, ents an tia pati Members Demen ir families the and maximization of Lenvima®’s contribution to patients, ale rs So lut ion rs / W ho les ide to ol pr ov as the levers. We are also aiming to transform from a rs of Coordinato ls Healthcare Nursing ce ut ica home ph ar ma providers/ caregivers Partners medical traditional value chain model to a platform model. In the ers (content layers) institutions nc e develop a insura Dementi eloper s tic tool dev g Eisai) r/diagnos treatment of dementia, Eisai will become a platformer Biomarke mpanies (includin eutical co Platform design rm ac with the drug discovery value chain and ability to design Pha mentiana Eisaie voDicees of patieountst tho to ilies, ability d their fam s ines in ion se solut innovative medic associated solutions at the core based on understanding the true Platformer to draw out the tru to verify and roll the creation of efficiently. The for 1. Ability solutions, ability al foundation fastest time, mo d digitalization tent system st as keys, and related and technologic in the world’s oints an d the pa gate endp ta protection an tions needs of patients and their families through socialization, Sc ien tific th pa rtn ers rs, su rro da en 2. tion wi marke well as te ill int collabora the registry, bio sed on this as tem and elimina es ba ys ability us early approval the ecos leverage s quality of ntee the and build a dementia ecosystem that will enable various 3. Ability to guara Increasing Corporate Value by Enhancing Non-Financial Capital In recent years, as an important theme for improving Report 2017. corporate value, a lot of attention has been paid to ＊C DP: A non-profit organization based in London, formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project. Requests information relating to climate change, water, and forests from companies with top initiatives for enhancing non-financial capital centered ranking market capitalization in principal countries and discloses the information to the government and investors. on ESG (Environment, Social, Governance). ESG Investment has been expanding globally, based on the For Society, the representative example is our evaluation of ESG initiatives at each company. activities to create communities where patients We have been enhancing ESG initiatives while with dementia can live safely, in collaboration with developing our business based on the hhc philosophy. medical and care professionals, local governments, In the Environment category, we have been making municipalities, and citizens. Another example is our efforts to reduce impact on the global environment for initiatives for improving access to medicine, such as many years, and as a result, we were awarded a high the provision of DEC (diethylcarbamazine) tablets, a evaluation of B rating in the CDP＊ Climate Change treatment for lymphatic filariasis, one of the neglected 15 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 tropical diseases (NTDs＊), at Price Zero (free of charge). outside directors in the board meeting. In the Jefferies In the Access to Medicine Index, Eisai was ranked Securities’ Governance Review Report, Eisai has been first among Japanese pharmaceutical companies and awarded first place among the TOPIX500 companies eleventh among global pharmaceutical companies for the second consecutive year since 2016. consecutively in 2014 and 2016. Additionally, Eisai has been selected as a member of ＊N  TDs include 20 diseases that WHO (World Health Organization) identifies as tropical diseases the FTSE4Good Index Series for the 17th consecutive that the human race must overcome. Prominent among them are lymphatic filariasis and Chagas disease. year since 2002, as well as a member of the Dow For Governance, we adopted a Company with a Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index for a fifth Nomination Committee, etc., System in June 2004 consecutive year since 2013. Eisai has also been to clearly divide functions between supervision of selected for membership in all three ESG indices management and execution of business, as well as adopted by the GPIF (Government Pension Investment ensuring fairness and transparency in management. Fund); MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, FTSE At Eisai, the majority are outside directors with a high Blossom Japan Index, and MSCI Japan Empowering degree of independence. The chairman of the board, Women Index (WIN). as well as the chairs of the nomination, audit and Furthermore, in December 2017, Eisai joined the compensation committees are all outside directors. United Nations Global Compact to enhance nonThe CEO is the only member from the management financial capital with a focus on ESG. We continue to side. There are always active discussions concerning make efforts to increase our corporate value through business supervision from various perspectives with these initiatives. Initiatives to Eliminate the “Gaps” that Exist Worldwide In order to realize our corporate aspiration to be a “Medico Societal Innovator”, or in other words, “a ● Gap in the level of treatment or care available company that changes society through creating medicines and providing solutions”, we are working on eliminating the various medical or care gaps that exist throughout the world. In an ideal world, everyone would have access to the treatment/care they need, but things are different in reality. As a result of differences in region or income, or the lack of medical systems, there are huge discrepancies in the level of treatment or care available. In order to eliminate LF, Eisai began manufacturing We are enhancing our initiatives to eliminate these an LF treatment, DEC tablets, at our Vizag Plant in regional, income, and institutional gaps. India and has been providing them to the World Health We believe that the initiatives to eliminate the gaps Organization (WHO) at Price Zero. Supply commenced lead to not only enhancing non-financial capital but in October 2013, and we have delivered approximately also achieving the United Nations’ 17 Sustainability 1.44 billion tablets to 28 countries by the end of July Development Goals (SDGs). 2018. WHO announced that eleven countries had ❶ Initiatives to eliminate regional gaps already achieved elimination of LF. Eisai will continue NTDs, such as lymphatic filariasis (LF) or Chagas providing DEC tablets, until LF is completely eliminated disease, are a serious medical and social issue, and in all the LF-endemic countries where DEC tablets are most of those patients are in developing and emerging needed. countries. Moreover, due to poverty or other reasons, Additionally, Eisai is proactively taking initiatives aimed many of these people cannot receive the treatments at developing new treatments for NTDs including that are necessary. We are taking proactive initiatives to Chagas disease, filariasis, leishmaniasis and mycetoma. eliminate NTDs that cause serious regional gaps. We R&D activities for the treatment of NTDs cannot be believe that there is no difference in the value between accomplished on our own. We have partnered with caring for one patient with NTD and caring for one several international research organizations to acquire patient with cancer. The value of a pharmaceutical specific research technologies, experience in running company is determined by the value for patients created clinical studies and networking with clinical facilities in by the company. Initiatives for NTDs are no longer endemic regions. As a specific example, we are currently side work, it is a major field alongside oncology and conducting Phase Ⅱ studies of our in-house antifungal neurology. agent fosravuconazole (E1224) for the treatment of 16 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix TO HER PROGRAM”, in which our anticancer agent Halaven® is provided based on a tiered pricing model, has enabled more than 3,200 patients with breast cancer in Asian countries to receive Halaven® over the past four years. Furthermore, Eisai has introduced “Affordable pricing policy” in Asian countries, a scheme that provides new medicines at a price to match the living standards there. For example, we are expanding access to antiepileptic agent Fycompa® in India by launching at affordable Panel discussion at Universal Health Coverage Forum 2017 prices evaluated by market research of how much Chagas disease and mycetoma in collaboration with a patients are willing to pay for efficacy of new epilepsy non-profit drug research and development organization, treatment. In self-pay markets in Asia except India, the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi). we introduced a new scheme that provides Fycompa Eisai’s initiatives for elimination of NTDs are a long-term free of charge for a certain period of time until patients investment with the aim of eliminating regional gaps and confirm efficacy. expanding the productive population and middle income ❸ Initiatives to eliminate institutional gaps group in developing and emerging countries, and we will The existence or absence of medical systems produces continue to proactively engage in this initiative. huge discrepancies in the quality of available treatment ❷ Initiatives to eliminate income gaps or care. These institutional gaps have also become The mission of a pharmaceutical company is not solely a serious issue in developed countries, and we are to create innovative new medicines. Securing access is pursuing various strategies to overcome these problems. also important in order for our products to reach all the A representative example is our initiative for geriatric people in need. In developing and emerging countries, health services facilities in Japan. It has been pointed there are vast numbers of patients who cannot obtain out that medical treatment is limited at these facilities, the medicines that they need due to low incomes. as payment for medicines and injections are restricted In order to eliminate income gaps, Eisai is pursuing under Long-Term Care Insurance in Japan. This means affordable pricing policies. that for dementia patients in particular, there is often a As mentioned above, we are providing LF-endemic blank period in their treatments. In order to eliminate countries with DEC tablets through WHO at Price Zero. this institutional gap, we have entered into a direct Additionally, we have introduced “Tiered Pricing agreement with the organizations which the facilities Policy”, a scheme where the price for a medicine varies have joined, to provide Aricept® along with information based on the patients’ income and health insurance about the disease to the facilities since January 2017. systems, in the case of launching new products in India, This business was first introduced in Tokyo, and has the Philippines and other self-pay markets. The “HOPE expanded into 42 prefectures in Japan at present. Maximizing Shareholder Value over the Medium and Long Terms Eisai believes that proactive investment for growth proactively and maintain stable dividends. As our global based on mediumto long-term ROE management, IR strategy, we intend to disclose information in a timely a stable dividend policy and a global investor relations and fair manner to fulfill our accountability to investors (IR) strategy are three important measures that make and work to continuously raise shareholder value. up our financial strategy for maximizing shareholder ＊ Equity spread: ROE Cost of equity Eisai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% value. Eisai is generating a historical 10-year average Eisai would like to undertake our stakeholder’s ROE of 10.3% and positive equity spread＊ of 2.3%. In mandate by increasing corporate value continuously working to realize mediumand long-term growth, we under the concept of hhc philosophy and compliance. will continue to proactively make R&D investments in We ask all our stakeholders for their continued the dementia and oncology fields. Regarding dividends, support. we will maintain our policy of paying stable dividends August 2018 with a dividend on equity (DOE) ratio at the 8% level. At Haruo Naito the end of fiscal 2017, Eisai’s net debt equity ratio (Net Representative Corporate Officer and CEO DER) was -0.27, while the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent was 57%. We preserved our sound financial condition that enables us to invest 17 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Value Creation Process and Flow Six Capitals based Eisai’s Strategy Map on the IIRC framework Financial perspective Financial Capital Creation of ROE that exceeds the cost of capital Pool of funds for use (a positive equity spread) in the mediumto long-term (P.32-33) in corporate activities (P.26-35,88-89) Customer perspective Eisai’s mission Intellectual Capital Enhancement of patient satisfaction Knowledge-based intangible assets such as pipelines and Input of capitals for value creation intellectual property Output (products and services) (P.40-60,92-94) Creation of innovative medicines in neurology and oncology areas (P.12-14,40-45,49-63,92-93) •Expand contribution to patients through products developed in-house Human Capital (Anticancer agent Lenvima® and Halaven®, antiepileptic agent Fycompa®) Capabilities and experience of •Robust progress in development of next generation Alzheimer’s disease treatments in neurology area Eisai’s human assets as well as •Ongoing development of combination therapy of Lenvima ® and anti PD-1 motivation for innovation antibody for the creation of innovative therapies in oncology area (P.4-7,22-25,62-63) Internal business process perspective Manufactured Capital Facilities for the manufacture Global business activities (P.54-63) of products and provision •Accumulate experience and knowledge through the conduct of drug creation, of services production and marketing activities globally over many years (P.54-55,61,80-81) •Built a solid business foundation in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, and Asia Social and Utilization of partnerships (P.12-17,29-30,38,40-41,49-53,58-59,61-63,78-79) Relationship Capital •Make effective use of various partnerships to promptly maximize contributions Building relationships of trust to patients with society and stakeholders for the common good (P.36-39,46-48,78-81) Learning & growth perspective Natural Capital Internalization of human health care (hhc) philosophy (P.4-7,25) •All employees are encouraged to use 1% of their total business hours to Environmental resources and interact with patients processes associated •Incorporated the corporate philosophy into the Company’s Articles of with corporate activities Incorporation (P.82-83) •More than 300 hhc activities are carried out globally every year 18 Eisai’s mission is the enhancement of patient satisfaction as defined in the Eisai Articles of Incorporation. In order to fulfill this mission, Eisai utilizes many different types of capital as input and converts them into many different forms of output (products and services) through business activities. Creation of social value by enhancing patient satisfaction leads to generation of economic value in the form of revenue and profit as a result. Through the creation of these outcomes, Eisai is aiming to increase its capital to an extent that is greater than the amount of input. This chart expresses Eisai’s continuous value creation process and flow based on a model that incorporates the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) framework and balanced scorecard. Figures in parentheses indicate the corresponding pages of this report. Sustainable maximization of shareholder value Financial Capital Increase in capital to an extent that is greater than the amount of input Sustainable and stable shareholder returns (P.34) Initiatives to eliminate medical or Contribution to achieve care gaps (P.16-17) Sustainable Development Goals (regional gaps, income gaps and (SDGs) Intellectual institutional gaps) (P.16-17, 84-85) Capital Offering solutions that go beyond providing pharmaceuticals (P.46-48) •Disease awareness events carried out globally over 10,000 times in dementia area •Offer a variety of solutions in cooperation with partners including counterparts of the dementia partnership agreements Initiatives for improving access to medicines (P.15-17,29,36-39,79) Human Capital •Supply DEC tablets and implement awareness-raising activities to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis •Promote various projects aimed at developing new treatments for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) as well as malaria and tuberculosis Enhancement of corporate governance (P.16,64-69) •Adopted a Company with a Nomination Committee, etc., System in 2004 and clearly separated Manufactured management oversight functions from business execution functions •Since 2004, more than half of Eisai’s directors are outside directors Capital •Since 2005, the chair of the Board of Directors has been chosen from among the outside directors Enhancement of compliance & risk management (P.74-77) •Commenced promotion of full-fledged compliance in fiscal 2000 from the lessons of vitamin lawsuit in 1999 •Carry out various initiatives including establishing, developing and implementing internal control systems as well as conducting internal audits, in order to contain risks within acceptable levels Social and Quality assurance, stable supply, safety information management (P.80-81) Relationship •Build a complete system and implement activities globally for quality assurance, stable supply, and safety information management Capital Promote strategy for the development of human resources (P.22-24) •Promote programs for supporting the development of global human resources (selective training programs, opportunities to study abroad to acquire an MBA or study at law school, and others) Natural Capital •Promote diversity •Support employees through corporate pension fund, health insurance association, labor union and other initiatives Accumulation of capitals for further value creation Source: Created by Eisai based on Kazunori Ito and Toshiaki Nishihara, “Disclosure and Usability of Information on Integrated Report of Eisai”, The KAIKEIGAKU KENKYU (The Annual bulletin of accounting study) No.43, 2017 and advice from Professor Kazunori Ito 19 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ Eisai began formulating threeto five-year medium-term business plans in 1957 and executed plan management based on a mediumto long-term perspective. In April 2016, Eisai started the Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ as our 17th medium-term business plan. ‘EWAY 2025’ is Eisai’s first medium-term business plan spanning 10 years. For a pharmaceuticals company that has undertaken new drug development over long periods of time, plan management based on a mediumto long-term perspective is important and 10 years is not particularly a long time. Eisai will steadily contribute to patients and stay keenly focused on the goals it must reach 10 years from now. A look back at the past three medium-term business plans Key achievements Key issues ●Expanded Alzheimer’s disease treatment ●Unable to launch in-house developed drugs Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet® following Aricept® and Pariet® ●Accelerated overseas expansion ●Virtually attained key management targets (net ●Main development themes unachieved Millennium revenue of ¥600.0 billion and operating income •Anticancer agent E7070 Plan of ¥100.0 billion) one year ahead of schedule (FY2002-FY2005) ●Enhanced corporate governance •Adopted a Company with a Nomination Committee, etc., System in 2004 •Added the corporate philosophy of hhc to  the Eisai Articles of Incorporation in 2005 ●Attained all-time high in consolidated net ●Unable to achieve consolidated financial targets revenue (FY2009) thanks to expansion of (revenue of ¥1 trillion and operating income of Aricept® and Pariet® ¥200 billion) due to delays in obtaining new drug ●Globalization advanced across all functions approvals and unachieved development themes ●Strengthened foundation in oncology area ●Main development themes unachieved Dramatic •Acquired Morphotek, Inc. (2007) •Severe sepsis treatment/endotoxin antagonist Leap Plan •Acquired MGI Pharma, Inc. (2008) Eritoran (FY2006-FY2010) ●Launched in-house anticancer agent Halaven® •Thrombin receptor antagonist E5555 (2010, U.S.) •Aricept® pediatric indications in the U.S. and Europe (eribulin mesylate) Injection •Pariet® long-acting formulation •AMPA receptor antagonist perampanel for Parkinson’s disease ●Launched new in-house drugs ●Unable to achieve consolidated financial targets •Antiepileptic agent Fycompa® (2012 in Europe) that aimed for the highest level of results (revenue •Anticancer agent Lenvima® (2015 in the U.S., of ¥800 billion and operating income of ¥200 Japan and Europe) billion) due to the following factors ® •Insufficient capabilities for responding to changes Plan in business environment resulting from the loss Hayabusa of market exclusivities for both Aricept® and (FY2011-FY2015) ●Expanded in China and Asia Pariet® ●New market entry •Delays in product creation ●Strengthened initiatives for improving access to ●Main development themes unachieved pharmaceuticals •Halaven® second-line treatment for breast cancer in the U.S. •Halaven® for non-small cell lung cancer ● Trends in revenue and operating income Revenue (billion yen) Revenue Operating income Operating income (billion yen) ¥800 billion or more 800 160 600 120 ¥102 billion or more 400 80 200 Dramatic 40 Millennium Plan Leap Plan Plan Hayabusa EWAY 2025 0FY 0 F FY FY20 2002 03 tar Y202 FY FY20 2004 20 FY FY FY FY20 20 2005 06 07 08 25 FY20 2009 ge 0 FY FY FY20 20 2010 11 12 13 ts FY FY FY FY20 20 20 2014 15 16 17 ＊ Results up to FY2013 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results for FY2014 and beyond were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊ The reduction of operating income in FY2007 reflected the acquisition of MGI Pharma, Inc. 20 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix hhc and “Ricchi” : The Core Concepts of ‘EWAY 2025’ ‘EWAY 2025’ aims to achieve the following three strategic intents: 1. Aim to support patients’ thought: “I do not want to get sick. I want to know if I get sick, and I want to be cured.” 2. A im to support patients’ thought: “I want to control my disease in my neighborhood and safely spend the rest of my life with peace of mind.” 3. Focus on a business domain where Eisai can find out “Ricchi” based on the human health care (hhc) needs and fulfill them with Eisai innovation The foundation of these strategic intents is ● Main Concept of Plan ‘E-WAY 2025’ the human health care (hhc), the corporate hhc Socialization philosophy, which reflects the desire to contribute Spending time together and sharing experiences with patients hhc True Needs to patients. The hhc philosophy was enacted in 1992, Understanding real needs of the patients and is now acknowledged as our core value among Motivation for Innovation all employees, both in Japan and overseas. Spending Fulfilling hhc needs with our innovation time with patients and understanding their true needs Finding Out “Ricchi” motivate employees, and this becomes the source of Eisai’s innovation. All employees are encouraged to Establishment of Center Line at “Ricchi” by Innovation spend 1% of their total business hours to interact with patients. Additionally, since the inauguration of ‘EWAY ● What is “Ricchi” 2025’, patient socialization programs have been Areas where real patient needs are still unmet, included into many internal training programs, which and where Eisai can become a frontrunner has motivated employees to contribute to patients. In ‘EWAY 2025’, Eisai has selected two therapeutic “Ricchi” in Neurology area areas of focus to fulfill patient’s unmet needs: 1. Early and minimally-invasive diagnostics neurology and oncology. In these two areas, we 2. Novel neuro-transmission pathways believe that it is important to find out “Ricchi”, 3. Proteinopathy 4. Neuro-inflammation and immuno-genetics areas where real patient needs are still unmet, and 5. Synapse micro-environment where Eisai can become a frontrunner. Establishing 6. Neuronal regeneration a center line at “Ricchi” through innovation is a core concept of ‘EWAY 2025’. “Ricchi” in Oncology area Eisai has identified 6 “Ricchi” in neurology area and 1. Tumor microenvironment 2 “Ricchi” in oncology area, and has been focusing • Mesenchymal cells and tumor stromal cells • Endothelial cells efforts on developing flagship drugs for each. • Myeloid cells 2. D  river gene mutation and aberrant splicing in cancer cells Consolidated Performance Targets for Fiscal 2020 Under ‘EWAY 2025’, we have set the following numerical targets for fiscal 2020, which is the midpoint of the plan. ・Consolidated revenue ¥800 billion or more ・Operating profit ¥102 billion or more ・Profit for the year ¥74 billion or more ・ROE 10% or more The strategic partnership for Lenvima® with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. will have a positive impact on Eisai’s financial position in the mediumto long-term. Eisai thinks that this partnership will enable further proactive investment in R&D in the oncology and dementia fields, and the achievability of fiscal 2020 target has been enhanced accordingly. 21 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Human Capital Strategy for the Development of Human Resources Thorough efforts to foster global leaders and promote diversity setting “socialization” with patients as the basis for the development of human resources The basis of the development of human resources is to understand the true needs of patients through “socialization.” Eisai regards its employees as an important “socialization with patients” into training programs stakeholder and asset for the realization of its throughout the regions in an effort to strengthen corporate philosophy of hhc. the development of our human resources. The basis of the development of human The Global Talent Management Policy was resources lies in socialization. In other words, formulated along with the launch of ‘EWAY 2025’. it involves each employee spending time This defines the aspiration of Eisai employees, training, with patients to understand their true needs. promotion and recruitment as well as our workplace Socialization also motivates our employees to climate based on the philosophy of hhc. “Socialization” deliver innovations that will fulfill patients’ needs. The is also set as the basis of the development of human medium-term business plan, ‘EWAY 2025’ launched resources in the Policy. in April 2016 reaffirms this basis and incorporates Eisai Global Talent Management Policy ■Eisai employees understand patients’ true needs through socialization, giving them a strong driving force for innovation; they then think where and how to put this innovation into practice in order to fulfill these needs ■Endeavor to provide meaningful work for innovation and development opportunities ■Foster corporate culture without discrimination or harassment, which embraces diversity & inclusion, and encourages taking on challenges and success through “trial and error” ■Attract and acquire great talent from around the world who identify with the hhc mindset to maximize the satisfaction of patients and consumers ■Find and develop talent who can observe the current real world (trends, presentations at academic conferences, etc.) and interpret (ability to decode time and opportunities) new business opportunities (“Ricchi”＊) without adhering to the status quo ＊Areas where real patient needs are still unmet, and where Eisai can become a frontrunner Efforts to develop human resources to lead our business on a global scale More than half of the 10,000-plus employees at Eisai Program for Supporting the Development work overseas. Local employees are assigned to top of Global Human Resources management positions at most of Eisai’s overseas Ten out of the 127 E-GOLD subsidiaries. Seven of our 29 corporate officers graduates are now playing active roles in management as Top Management are from outside Japan. The Executive Committee corporate officer. Meeting, the highest decision-making body at Eisai, Global Leaders has been conducted in English for over a decade now. E-GOLD (Management candidates In order to further expand contribution to patients who lead the future of Eisai) around the world, the development of leaders who Middle Managers run the business on a global scale beyond national borders is imperative. E-ACE Next-generation Talent Eisai Global Opportunity for Leadership (Young employees in the early stage of their career who demonstrate the ability to decode time and opportunities) Development (E-GOLD) and Eisai Agile Change for Excellence (E-ACE) are important training programs led by the CEO and CTO, respectively. The former is this program. In addition, we have programs to offer designed for global leaders while the latter is for nextthe opportunity for employees to study abroad generation talent. to acquire an MBA or study at law school. 121 As for overseas transfers and long-term business employees have studied abroad under this system. trips, we have global systems which actively offer In addition, in Japan, as an opportunity to learn opportunities for employees to go beyond about leadership, we hold a management seminar national borders and pursue their careers or conducted by prominent teachers in various fields for develop their skills (Global Mobility). In the last five all individuals in management positions five times a years, more than 71 employees have participated in year. 22 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Diversity is essential for fulfilling patients’ needs Eisai believe that diversity is a source of innovation. activities. We are aiming to contribute to a diverse range of Since 2012, Eisai has advocated patients from the viewpoint of nationality, gender and the Eisai Diversity Declaration and age. For that purpose, it is essential that the human is working to further strengthen resources at Eisai grow into a group that is rich in initiatives to foment an organizational diversity, and utilize their diverse values in business climate for utilizing diverse values. “It's time to embrace Eisai Diversity” Efforts toward the advancement of women in the workplace (our efforts mainly in Japan) Our U.S. and Chinese subsidiaries assign women to these female employees, their career perspectives top management positions. Women also account for are developed. In mid-career recruitment, we more than 45% of management positions in our U.S., proactively seek women who would work as European and Chinese subsidiaries. On the other executives or candidates for the position. hand, the ratio of women in management positions In the results, each year women account for a remained at 6.1% (86 female managers/1401 greater part of management positions in Japan, and managers in total) as of the end of fiscal 2017 the young generation has an especially higher ratio of in Japan (Eisai Co., Ltd.) and we are working to women in management positions. In addition, Eisai improve on that. was selected for membership in the MSCI Japan In the past in Japan, we did not have many female Empowering Women Index (WIN) in June 2018. In employees as candidates for management positions. compliance with the Act on Promotion of Women’s In recent years, we have recruited almost an equal Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, proportion of male and female employees. Year enacted on April 1, 2016, Eisai further encourages after year, we have more female employees who are female employees to pursue their careers by setting potential candidates for management positions. By a target proportion of women in management implementing a selective training program for positions of 10% at the end of fiscal 2020. ●Ratio of women in management positions (Eisai Co., Ltd.) ●Ratio of women in management positions by age ( Eisai Co., (%) 10 Ltd. ) (As of end of fiscal 2017) 16.2% Each year women account for a greater The young generation has part of management positions in Japan a higher ratio of women in 6.1 management positions 5.2 9.5% 4.6 4.7 4.1 3.7 2.9 3.0 1.8% 0.8% End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of FY2020 30s 40s 50s 60s FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Target ●Diversity Initiatives and Their Outcomes ( Eisai Co., Ltd. ) Women’s career pursuits Supporting work/life balance ■October 2012: CEO issues Eisai Diversity Declaration. Determination that diversity leads to the improvement of patients’ benefits was shared on a company-wide basis. The Diversity Committee has considered numerous different actions and the Human Resources Development Headquarters is currently in charge of promoting diversity and inclusion. ・Stratified career training designed for female ・Time management system was introduced for employees to improve the employees has been provided since 2014. effectiveness and efficiency of their way of working with greater focus on “time.” ・Mentoring system has been introduced. ・System to allow non-management employees to choose the scope of work ・“Adaptation to diversity” has been included in the locations in accordance with their lifestyles and life events. performance appraisal criteria. ・Flextime for childcare and caregiving has been made applicable to employees Efforts ・Diversity-related training is provided to department working offsite. managers. ・Shorter working hours for childcare and caregiving has been made applicable ・Internal website introduces various cases of to management positions. employees who can serve as role models. ・System for working from home was introduced for supporting childcare and ・New personnel system was implemented in April caregiving. 2016 in which all employees can be promoted to ・Training is provided to medical representatives (MRs) who return to work after management positions if they meet the requirements childcare leave (reinstatement training, accompanying MRs who are also raising and possess insight. a child) ・Participated in the “Ikuboss Corporate Alliance” in July 2018 and conducted training to deepen understanding for management positions. FY2011 result FY2017 result FY2011 result FY2017 result Ratio of female employees＊1 22.6% 21.2%＊2 Average years of employemt＊1 19.0 years 20.8 years Ratio of women in (19.7 years/16.8 years) (21.9 years/16.9 years) management positions＊1 3.0% 6.1% (males/females) Number/ratio of women in Average days of paid vacation taken Outcomes 0/0% 3/11.1% 13.9 days 12.9 days corporate officers＊1 (per non-management employee) Number/ratio of women in Average monthly overtime hours 1/9% 1/9% 11 hrs. and 1 min. 9 hrs. and 44 min. directors＊1 (per non-management employee) Ratio of female employees ＊1 As of end of fiscal year ＊2 The decrease in ratio of female employees is affected by changes in the staffing structure associated with the who entered the company 30% 44.3% transfer of Misato Plant in March 2014 in the fiscal year＊3 ＊3 Including both new graduates and mid-career employees 23 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Work style reform (initiatives in Japan) Eisai aspires to enable employees to have prosperous consultation, if there were employees who worked lives and improve the company’s productivity at more than the maximum allowable overtime hours for the same time. Eisai is implementing work style each period of time. reform internally based on exchanges of opinion and ●Average monthly overtime hours per non-management employee discussions with its labor union. The company is 12 hrs. and working to correct long working hours by encouraging 11 mins. 10 hrs. and 10 hrs. and time management. The average monthly overtime 27 mins. 46 mins. 9 hrs. and 9 hrs. and 44 mins. hours per non-management employee has been 10 hours 11 mins. 8 hrs. and 34 mins. around 10 hours. In April 2018, Eisai introduced a system for recording the time when employees arrive at and leave the office in order to develop a corporate climate that prompts employees to become more aware of time and link this awareness to their results. In addition, Eisai is striving to improve time management for each employee by setting individual 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (fiscal year) Initiatives for enabling employees to display their abilities to the maximum extent possible (initiatives in Japan) 1. Pension investment to offer a sense of security steps including follow-ups of employees and their family after retirement members who were asked to undergo reexaminations The retirement age at Eisai Co., Ltd. is 65. The employees as a result of medical examinations for lifestyle-related can work with peace of mind until the age set by the central illnesses and cancers. government at which they can start receiving pension 3. Labor union (Eisai Union) activities for offering a benefits. In the meantime, Eisai protects the lives of retirees sense of security to employees through its triple retirement benefit system, which consists The Eisai Union is carrying out its activities with “job of a retirement allowance (55%), a defined benefit pension satisfaction” as the key phrase, in the belief that the plan (30%) and a defined contribution pension plan (15%). enhancement of job satisfaction of diverse employees The defined benefit pension plan is a pension for life with a will enable the company to develop on a mediumand guaranteed period of 20 years. The Eisai Corporate Pension long-term basis and employees to work happily. At Eisai, Fund managing the defined benefit pension plan has management and union representatives are repeating their operating functions that are independent from the company. discussions on many company-wide problems and issues The Eisai Corporate Pension Fund is managing pension plan particular to the respective divisions (R&D, production, assets by monitoring the balance of safe assets and assets sales and management divisions) in order to prepare a managed for pursuing profits in an organization governed variety of working conditions. effectively by representatives of the company and the labor Concrete examples of systems introduced in recent union. Eisai resolved to take further initiatives for ESG years as a result of such discussions are as follows. (Environment, Social and Governance) investment and •Establishment of a system that enables employees adopt the Japanese version of the Stewardship Code to take leave and travel together when their partner in February 2018 to give employees a sense of long-term leaves for a new post overseas security. •Establishment of a system that enables employees 2. Health insurance society activities for protecting who are involved in childcare or caregiving to work the health of employees from home The Eisai Health Insurance Society is supporting the health •Extension of childcare leave and establishment of a of employees in cooperation with parties such as related system that offers time off for a male employee, whose in-house units and industrial physicians. For example, the spouse is giving birth, aimed at encouraging men to Health Insurance Society secured a high achievement ratio participate in childcare for specific health guidance. The society has expanded •Change in the system for long-term sick leave to the scope of this program to employees under 40 years enable employees to take half-day leave for cancer, old who are outside the scope of legal obligations. In dialytic or infertility treatment February 2018, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry selected Eisai as an outstanding Health and Eisai has been certified as a “childcare Productivity Management supporting company” that meets Organization in the large certain criteria based on the “Act on enterprise category (white 500) Advancement of Measures to Support for that year. The Eisai Health Raising Next-Generation Children” from Insurance Society will continue the Tokyo Labor Bureau of the Ministry of working to promote health Health, Labour and Welfare. The “Kurumin” among insured persons with certification mark Regarding the following initiatives, please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Web site Initiatives for human rights ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/human_rights/index.html Initiatives for creating a positive working environment ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/environment/index.html Initiatives for occupational safety and health ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/health_safety/index.html 24 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Example of “Socialization with Patients” program Implementing clinical trials for next-generation Alzheimer’s treatments utilizing awareness gained by holding dementia café events Yoshitaka Maeda Japan and Asia Clinical Development Department, Clinical, Medicine Creation, Neurology Business Group My main work is promoting clinical trials in Japan Early AD = prodromal AD + mild AD within the dementia area. Eisai’s development projects in the dementia area target beta amyloid (Aβ) positive •Prodromal AD: Accumulation of Aβ in the brain is early Alzheimer’s disease (AD), focusing within this recognized and mild cognitive impairment can be area mainly on a condition with mild symptoms called observed. However, dementia diagnosis criteria are prodromal AD. However, there is a low awareness not satisfied and basic everyday living functions can of prodromal AD and so finding appropriate target be carried out within a normal range. patients to participate in clinical trials is not easy. •Mild AD: A condition in which a mild cognitive When I handled Phase Ⅱ trials for anti-Aβ protofibril impairment that clinically interferes mildly with antibody BAN2401, I repeatedly engaged in earnest everyday living. dialogue with doctors in charge of clinical trials regarding methods for smoothly proceeding with patient enrollments. Through these discussions, we eventually came to share the recognition that raising awareness of prodromal AD was the most crucial factor. We then held in-house discussions and asked ourselves, “Is there anything we can do for raising the level of disease awareness?” As a result of these discussions, we daringly consulted with local government bodies, which are involved with a variety of dementia-related issues. We spoke with staff of Community General Support Center in Bunkyo ward, which is also the location of the Eisai Head Office, and these talks led to the holding of the Dementia Café. By holding the Dementia Café, we became aware The Dementia Café serves as a venue where not of a variety of matters. During casual exchanges only patients with dementia but also care managers we learned, for example, that things we consider as and persons from the community can freely gather natural are not always so for the elderly (shaky hands and interact. The General Dementia Café also make writing difficult) and that they have diminishing represents one core measure of the Comprehensive connections with society, so opportunities for them to Strategy to Accelerate Dementia Measures (New speak with other people are valuable. We also became Orange Plan) being promoted by Japanese aware of the importance of creating opportunities government, and more and more of these sessions for learning about an unfamiliar disease. Ordinarily, are being held throughout the country. The methods there are few opportunities to learn about prodromal for holding these initiatives differ depending on the AD. The “socialization with patients” program provides local government body. In Bunkyo ward, an eventthe best opportunity for new discoveries and we plan based café is opened at periodic intervals instead of to actively implement this program in the future as on a permanent basis. well. We held the Dementia Café three times at the Presently, along with the progression of the Eisai Head Office jointly with the Community enrollment of patients for Phase Ⅲ trials (Mission General Support Center (July and October 2017 AD) for the BACE inhibitor elenbecestat, we are and February 2018). More than 50 persons, including proactively undertaking activities that include putting patients with dementia, participated in the events. up prodromal AD posters in pharmacies near clinical Eisai employees also gathered around and sat at trial facilities after having obtained the approval of the same tables as the participants and shared the Institutional Review Board. We will continue to photographs comparing Bunkyo ward in the past and make steady efforts to present while explanations of dementia were provided inform as many people using pamphlets and videos. These events earned as possible about acclaim from participants and the 4th Dementia Café prodromal AD. is scheduled to be held in September 2018. 25 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Interview: Seeking the Integration of ESG and Corporate Value –Visualization of Invisible Value Yoshiko Sato (Left) Ryohei Yanagi (Right) Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA) Chief Financial Officer, Executive Managing Director Chief IR Officer Career Summary of Ms. Yoshiko Sato Graduated from Keio University Faculty of Economics in 1985. Joined Nikkei Inc. the same year. Seconded to JIRA in 1993. Promoted to Chief Research Fellow in 2003, appointed Secretary General in 2007 and Executive Managing Director in 2015. Has been active in efforts aiming to enhance corporate value and develop capital markets primarily through seminars and newsletters arranged by JIRA. Focused on dialogue with companies and investors in addition to lectures and writing. The spread of ROE among Japanese companies and Eisai’s ROE management Sato In recent years, I sense that Japanese stocks be set at, 74% of investors assumed the cost companies have come to explain their aim to of equity should be 8% or more. Although I have been increase capital productivity and sustainably improve conducting this survey for almost a decade, there have corporate value through dialogue with investors. This been no striking changes in trend in recent years. This is supported by the Ito Review in 2014, the Japanese is also linked to the Ito Review which raised awareness Stewardship Code and Corporate Governance Code, of aiming for an ROE of 8% or more. Furthermore, and is being promoted by the JIRA as well. More and when looking into the relationship between PBR (price more Japanese companies are conscious of the book value ratio) and forecast ROE in the last 10 cost of equity in a dialogue with investors, and years, when ROE is 8% or less, PBR is around 1 times according to a JIRA survey conducted in fiscal and value is not being created, however when ROE 2018, over 49% of 981 companies who facilitate exceeds 8%, PBR is also improved to exceed 1 times investor relations responded that they were aware ever-increasingly, and the creation of value is illustrated of the level of their own cost of equity. Given the by the data as well.＊1 Corporate Governance Code revised in 2018 also At Eisai, the major thrust of CFO policy is ROE promotes the dialogue and explanation of business management that is conscious of the cost of strategies after identifying the cost of capital, how is equity. ROE can be separated into margin (ratio of Eisai trying to engage in dialogue with investors? profit to revenue), turnover (total asset turnover ratio) Yanagi According to a survey of 141 global investors and financial leverage. Eisai’s financial department has I conducted in 2018, regarding the question of what three project teams handling each area respectively. percentage should the cost of equity for Japanese For margin, together with increasing the level of focus 26 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix on highly profitable businesses, we are aiming to decide upon the 10-year average for a long-term ROE realize efficient operation by leveraging partnerships standard as a KPI? and other initiatives in a bid to improve profitability. Yanagi Although ROE is an important indicator, Regarding turnover, at global CFO meetings I call for it is an indicator that can be adjusted by reducing company-wide efforts to optimize working capital unreasonable research and development expenses through improving the cash conversion cycle (CCC) or utilizing excess financial leverage. If you aim to and streamlining inventory. As for financial leverage, technically improve short term ROE, it will have we are conducting focused management at our negative repercussions on the creation of long-term/ headquarters financial division, pursuing an optimal sustainable corporate value, and this could result in capital structure while maintaining financial integrity. delays to maximizing contribution to patients. I believe In addition, at Eisai, the 10-year average ROE, we should avoid these harmful effects of shortnot the annual ROE, is used as a KPI. In order to termism and pursue long-term ROE instead. avoid short-termism and the misguided pursuit of In addition, you could think of 10 years as a single ROE, we are committed to mediumto long-term ROE cycle for pharmaceutical companies conducting management. Eisai’s historical 10-year average ROE development of new drugs over the long-term. Our is 10.3%, creating an equity spread of 2.3% over the current medium-term business plan EWAY2025 is a cost of equity of 8%. 10-year plan from fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2025. Of course, ＊1 R esearch paper example: “Consideration for Equity Spread and Creating there are shareholders and investors who are not Value” (Yanagi, Meno, Yoshino) Monthly Capital Market, July 2015 Issue, Capital Market Research Institute aligned with that timeframe, but it is IR’s responsibility to do its best to fill those gaps and request support for Sato What kind of discussions did you go through to reinforcing corporate value. How to visualize the value of non-financial capital Sato For sustainable growth, many companies are of the link between non-financial information and now giving consideration to the components of ESG corporate value is an issue and concern for many (environment, social, governance). In addition, ESG companies, accounting for 62.1% of respondents investment which takes into account ESG as criteria overall. On the other hand, up to 40.9% of companies for investment decisions is expanding. However, I have experienced fielding questions on non-financial think there are more than a few companies who have information from investors. At Eisai, what kinds of difficulty in fully explaining how ESG contributes to initiatives are you engaged in to visualize this nonthe enhancement of corporate value. According to financial capital value? a survey by the JIRA, the disclosure or explanation ●Issues and concerns regarding disclosure of non-financial information (including esg information) ＊2 (n＝981) Number of Ratio (%) cases Disclosure/explanation of the link between non-financial information (including ESG information) and corporate value 609 (527) 62.1 (55.9) Explanation so that investors can understand non-financial information that does not appear on financial statements 448 (380) 45.7 (40.3) Identifying materiality (important non-financial information for the company and its stakeholders) 279 (150) 28.4 (15.9) Establishing the relationship between the company’s business and ESG information 404 (290) 41.2 (30.8) Difficulty in narrowing down what kind of ESG information to disclose since the ESG investment decision making 293 (211) 29.9 (22.4) process is not understood clearly Impression that there are cases in which ESG information vendors assign ESG rankings purely based on ESG 223 (118) 22.7 (12.5) information disclosed primarily on websites without talking specifically to companies Other 22 (25) 2.2 (2.7) No response 59 (123) 6.0 (13.1) Numbers in brackets denote previous years’ data ●Experience in fielding questions about non-financial information Yanagi The amount of ESG investment is increasing, from investors＊2 (n＝981) and it is necessary to think of what exactly we Number of cases Ratio (%) should be looking for. According to a survey of global Yes 401 (354) 40.9 (37.6) investors I conducted, 73% of investors responded No 297 (323) 30.3 (34.3) “companies should emphasize both ESG and ROE and Can’t say either way 277 (240) 28.2 (25.5) show value relevance between the two.” Investors are not seeking “ESG for the sake of ESG”, but rather “ESG No response 6 (25) 0.6 (2.7) for the creation of sustainable corporate value.” In Numbers in brackets denote previous years’ data addition, 88% of investors answered that ESG value ＊2 April 2018, JIRA Report on Results of “Survey of IR Activities” should be reflected in a certain level of PBR. Most of the respondents for this survey are fundamentally longterm investors. 27 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 The IIRC-PBR model＊3 advocated by Eisai period, it had fluctuated from two to three times, explains the relationship between PBR and and has reached five times recently. With the non-financial capital. Based on the assumption progress in development of Alzheimer’s disease that “shareholder value equals long-term total treatments, I believe the value of non-financial market capitalization and also equals Book Value of capital is being highly acclaimed. Shareholders’ Equity (BV) plus Market Value Added Accordingly, we believe it is extremely important to (MVA), Eisai’s present financial capital is equivalent visualize the value of non-financial capital and ESG to BV while its non-financial capital consisting of through IR activities. At Eisai we use specialized ESG intellectual capital, human capital, manufactured materials to conduct dialogue with global investors, capital, social and relationship capital, and natural publish an integrated report and also hold ESG capital is related to MVA (the portion that exceeds seminars, among other initiatives. PBR of 1). These are also called “future financial ＊3 T  he model that explains the value relevance between six capitals introduced as IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) framework in 2013 and capital,” which can be converted to financial capital in PBR (price to book value ratio). The six capitals are comprised of “financial the medium-long term. Taking Eisai as an example, capital” as financial value, and “intellectual capital”, “human capital”, “manufactured capital”,“social and relationship capital” and “natural capital” if you examine the trends in PBR over a 10-year as non-financial value. ●IIRC-PBR Model (Value relevance of the six capitals that compose corporate value) ●Major ESG-related external evaluations and —Net assets (book value on accounting basis) is related to financial capital and selection for indices (as of August 2018) Market Value Added (MVA) is related to non-financial capital— ・MSCI ESG rating: AA Trends in Eisai’s PBR (from the end of fiscal 2008 to July 31, 2018) ・MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index (Times) ・MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Non-financial capital 5 Intellectual Capital Human Capital ・ TSE4 Good Index (selected for 17 F 4 consecutive years since 2002) Manufactured Capital ・FTSE Blossom Japan Index 3 Social and Relationship Capital ・D  ow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index 2 (selected for 5 consecutive years since Market Value Added (MVA) Natural Capital 2013) (self-created goodwill) 1 ・Access to Medicine Index (ATM Index 2014 Net assets (book value on accounting basis) Financial Capital and 2016): ranked 1st among Japanese 0 pharmaceutical companies and 11th among End of fiscal 2008 July 31, 2018 global pharmaceutical companies Returning to financial theory, shareholder value is capital, social and relationship capital and natural known as the Book Value of Shareholders’ Equity (BV) capital, based on the assumption that shareholder on an accounting basis plus sum of the present value value equals long-term total market capitalization and of future equity spread. In other words, there is a link also equals BV plus MVA. between Eisai’s hhc philosophy and long-term ROE From the ③Residual Income Model (RIM), it is via MVA, a portion that exceeds PBR of 1. This is a thought that MVA converges in the sum of present win-win relationship for shareholders and investors. value of equity spread. Therefore, it can be considered However, this balance is in conflict with short-termism. that future financial value creation based on equity I believe that a long-term point of view is essential to spread over the long term does not conflict with synchronize ESG and ROE. non-financial capital value such as ESG and MVA As CFO, I proposed a synchronized model creation and is not mutually contradictory and can be regarding financial capital and non-financial capital synchronized. value relevance based on our corporate philosophy In conjunction with the Non-Financial Capital and (hhc) prior to the announcement of the IIRC equity spread Value Relevance Model, the Intrinsic (International Integrated Reporting Council) framework Value Model which relates non-financial capital to in consideration of mediumto long-term capital MVA, the IIRC-PBR Model and the Residual Income efficiency (ROE and equity spread) and sustainability Model (RIM) which implicates the relation between (importance of non-financial capital). MVA and equity spread, are mutually complementary First, under the ①Intrinsic Value Model, MVA through the creation of MVA. Also, there are many is defined as ESG/CSR＊4 value (cost of capital publicized academic research papers＊5 that prove the reduction effects), customer value, human value, and positive correlation between PBR and ROE and the organizational value. non-financial capital that substantiates this model. In contrast to this, the aforementioned ②IIRC＊4 C SR: Corporate Social Responsibility ＊5 Research paper example: “Is Non-Financial Capital Linked to Corporate PBR Model explains the relevance of six capitals Value?” Yoshikazu Tomizuka, Corporate Accounting, July 2017 issue, CHUO under the IIRC framework, by positioning Book Value KEIZAI-SHA.  “A study of the relationship between human/intellectual capital and corporate of Shareholders’ Equity (BV) as financial capital, value (PBR)” (Yanagi, Yoshino), Monthly Capital Market, October 2017 issue, and relating MVA to non-financial capital consisting Capital Market Research Institute, etc. of intellectual capital, human capital, manufactured 28 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ●Non-Financial Capital and Equity Spread Value Relevance Model＊6 —Toward the visualization of “Invisible Value”— ① Intrinsic Value Model＊7 ② IIRC-PBR Model Shareholder Value Sustainability Value Reduction of Intellectual Capital cost of equity Non-financial capital (Value of ESG/CSR) Market Value Added (MVA) Human Capital Margin improvement Customer Value Manufactured Capital Book Value of Shareholders’ Equity (BV) Human Value Social and Relationship Capital Organizational Value Natural Capital Financial Capital (IIRC framework) ③ Residual Income Model(RIM) Sum of Present Value of Equity Spread (MVA) Residual Income （ ） ∞ ∑ Net income t − CoE × BV t-1 Equity Spead × BV Shareholder Value = BV + ( ROE − CoE ) × BV t =1 (1+CoE)t (Return on Equity attributable (Cost of Equity) to owners of the parent) ＊6 Source based on the following reference: “ROE Revolution and Financial Strategies” CHUOKEIZAI-SHA (2017) ＊7 “Financial Strategies for Maximizing Corporate Value” Doyukan (2009) As an example, let me introduce Eisai’s initiative to however I believe this is neither a donation project nor improve access to medicines, which is one of our nona loss-making project, but a long-term investment financial capitals. Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a disease instead. This project leads to “improved health and transmitted via mosquitoes which causes swelling of welfare” and “economic growth due to expansion of the patient’s lower extremities until they resemble those the middle class” in developing and emerging countries, of an elephant. This leads to difficulties in working and and for Eisai internally it also leads to “enhancement of significant economic damage. Over a billion people corporate brand value,” “improvement in employees’ are at risk, and since many of these people belong skill and motivation,” and “lower cost of goods through to the poorest income classes who have difficulty in improving the utilization rate of the Vizag plant.” In purchasing medicine, as a result, a situation in which the short-term, NPV (net present value) is negative, treatment has not been provided has persisted. In however, from a very long-term perspective it will be response, Eisai is working with WHO on a project to a plus to NPV, in other words this is a project that can provide DEC (diethylcarbamazine) tablets free-of-charge create corporate value. From long-term investors such in order to eliminate LF. Already, 1.44 billion tablets as overseas pension funds as well, we receive support have been provided free-of-charge, and we have for this program that both contributes to patients and declared that free-of-charge provision will continue until enhances corporate value in terms of long-term ROE. the complete elimination of LF is achieved. Since this Sato I see Eisai has clarified and explains that ESG medicine is being distributed for free, we have received initiatives are not only for contributing to society but some criticism that this damages shareholder value, provides benefits to investors as well. Initiatives for further enhancement of non-financial capital Sato At Eisai, what kind of thinking is investment in patients worldwide are waiting for the development non-financial capital based upon? of new medicines, it’s a difficult situation when Yanagi Since this is a pharmaceutical company, you consider financial principles. That is where the how we think about investment in research and partnership model comes in. We are collaborating development, which is intellectual capital, is a big point. with Biogen Inc. in the dementia area and with Merck Unreasonably cutting back research and development & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. in oncology, and expenses for the sake of increasing immediate profit by dividing research and development expenses with will not lead to the expansion of non-financial capital. partners, the burden on Eisai is reduced. Considering On the other hand, spending excessively on investment the share of expenses borne by partners, our ratio of for research and development expenses without research and development expenses is actually closer moderation is going to make it hard to continue as a to 30% of sales. company. Sato The fact that the partnership model also means Currently, in order to proactively invest in our an effect on the distribution of capital is gaining dementia and oncology pipeline, our ratio of research attention. and development expenses to sales is over 20%, Yanagi If we didn’t use the partnership model, we which is a high level compared to global industry would not have been able to invest for research and standards. Although we want to invest more because development expenses to date. Despite trying to avoid 29 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 June 2005, and was shared with all shareholders. We received support from many investors as well. Sato It’s rare to have a corporate philosophy in the Articles of Incorporation. Yanagi While I believe many companies have a corporate philosophy, I think it is important to get authorization through special resolution of the general meeting of shareholders for codifying into the Articles of Incorporation and sharing with shareholders. We prioritize contributing to patients as our mission, and also pursue economic profit as a result in the longterm. In other words, pursuing long-term investment is built into the Articles of Incorporation. It is also the foundation of our IR activities. Sato In recent years, I feel that ESG has quickly become a household term, but you have been active in this area since more than 20 years ago. Yanagi In accordance with the current trends in ESG, I personally want to further expand our activities. In 2018, Eisai established a new Policy, Advocacy & Sustainability Department, and held a Sustainability Advisory Board Meeting in August. The Sustainability Advisory Board is chaired by Mr. Mitsuo Sakaba, former Japanese Ambassador to Vietnam and Belgium, joined by Mr. Ujal Singh Bhatia, former short-termism, we also have to maintain a certain level Indian Ambassador and Permanent Representative of ROE. Although a large scale acquisition is another to the World Trade Organization (WTO) as a member. model for enabling both investment in research and Together with the CEO and internal staff involved in development as well as profit, you’d expect this ESG, they discuss sustainability at Eisai. The CFO also to be very risky. We’re focused on the partnership participates to discuss how ESG is linked to corporate model, positioning it as a model for collaboration while value. leveraging each other’s strengths, as well as further ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/management.html reduction of expenses. Sato I sense this is a very unique way of doing things Sato Grasping the financial side of corporate value among pharmaceutical companies. and thinking about ESG and sustainability based Yanagi Eisai’s initiatives to enhance non-financial on the perspective of shareholders and investors capital are based on the hhc corporate philosophy. is important. I hear that companies in Europe have We’ve been carrying out activities based on the hhc established sustainability boards as consultative bodies philosophy for over 25 years, from before the boom in for the board of directors. It’s fascinating to see that ESG. Eisai holds such a meeting in a unique way. Sato Although the hhc philosophy was set in 1992, Yanagi So that we do not end up doing ESG for the when was it codified into the Articles of Incorporation? sake of ESG, it is important to have a forum to discuss Yanagi It was added to the Articles of Incorporation how ESG can be linked to corporate value. by resolution at the general shareholders meeting in New approach to corporate pension funds Sato As I read recently in the newspapers and other strong positive correlation with corporate value. In media as well, Eisai and Panasonic declared that order to improve the corporate pension fund which they would adopt the Stewardship Code for their is related to employees in their retirement, I thought corporate pension funds. It was mentioned that about how to optimize pension returns sustainably in these are forward-thinking initiatives for manufacturers, the long term while avoiding conflict of interest. could you tell me your opinion on that? Of course, it is important to emphasize the Yanagi When the Stewardship Code was issued in independence of corporate pension funds. On top 2014, I personally had the view that corporate pension of that, I met with the CEO, the Corporate Officer funds ought to adopt the Code. It is true that human in charge of Human Resources and the head of the resources have a significant influence on corporate labor union, sharing the results of the experimental value. According to an experimental study conducted study and ultimately we received approval from the by a team at Chuo University, it was found that among corporate pension fund, representative committees as non-financial capital, human capital has an especially well as other related organizations, and finally the fund 30 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix adopted the Stewardship Code. Sato Are Eisai’s and Panasonic’s corporate pension fund initiatives different? Yanagi Panasonic’s corporate pension fund is larger in scale, they also deploy plenty of full time staff, and I heard that the fund side proposed the adoption of the Stewardship Code to the management side. In the revised Corporate Governance Code, it suggests that adequate resources should be provided for corporate pension funds, but like the majority of Japanese companies, Eisai does not have enough human resources or capital for its corporate pension fund, and is in a situation where it is difficult for the fund to move toward voluntarily adopting the code. Therefore, at Eisai, the CFO sets the concept framework, and the finance department is tasked by the corporate pension fund to create a system for advice and back office work. Under the support of the finance department, Eisai’s corporate pension fund selected ESG investment funds, and began ESG investment. In fiscal 2019, we intend to become a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and as a corporate pension fund, pursue a global standard of ESG. While Eisai and its corporate pension fund are adhering to the twin codes of the Corporate cost of capital and reducing cross-shareholdings, but Governance Code and the Stewardship Code my impression is that this revision to the Code has respectively, we aim to create medium-long term given us a favorable tailwind. We are already one of value with ESG as the core through a virtuous cycle the frontrunners having finished preparations of our of investment chain, although the scale is small. If system, and we hope to further develop it moving human capital is enhanced through the corporate forward. pension fund, then I believe this will help with the Sato What is the biggest reason for successfully sustainable creation of value for Eisai. achieving these various initiatives ahead of others? Sato In the Corporate Governance Code revised in Yanagi Personally I have many years of experience June 2018, a section for Roles of Corporate Pension in the financial industry, I’ve undertaken research and Funds as Asset Owners was newly added, I presume education at universities over 10 years, and have that Eisai is among the pioneers on that? had opportunities to participate in meetings with Yanagi Under the leadership of the CFO we government experts, so I have been able to pick up have taken various actions over the years such as the latest knowledge from outside the company. supporting the corporate pension fund, identifying the In addition, the CEO’s commitment is an important point. Without support from top management, it is ●Virtuous Cycle of Eisai’s Internal Investment Chain difficult to realize new ideas. Based on understanding of global standards, we have taken the lead in Abenomics implementing policies that align with our hhc Corporate Governance reforms philosophy. Sato Recently, through your dialogue with investors, Corporate Stewardship Accepted in do you sense that investors’ awareness and methods Governance Code Code Feb 2018 of value analysis are changing for ESG? Comply or Explain Comply or Explain Yanagi ESG issues are being given more importance, Sustainability and from the investor side as well, there are more Value Signatory to cases of full-time sections on ESG and sustainability. Eisai Co., Ltd Maximization Eisai Corporate PRI planned Going forward, I think it is essential that Japanese Pension Fund in fiscal 2019 (SDGs&ROE) companies and investors encourage one another for mutual improvement. Initiation of Maximizing ESG investment Sato Thank you very much for your time today. SDGs:ESG long-term Yanagi Thank you for your time as well. pension return in 2018 Placing importance on human capital 31 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Financial Capital Financial Strategy Aim to continuously maximize shareholder value based on “Mediumto Long-Term ROE Management”, “Sustainable and Stable Shareholder Returns” and “Value-Creative Investment Criteria for Growth” Financial strategy map＊1 for sustainable maximization of shareholder value Eisai has set out a financial strategy map as its CFO policy to continuously maximize shareholder value. This strategy consists of three key themes: “ROE management”, “Dividend policy” and “Value-Creative Investment Criteria (VCIC).” Investor Relations Financial strategies Dividend policy ROE management Value-Creative Investment •Signaling effect ＊2 •Margin: Business Development partners/ Criteria : VCIC •Catering effect＊3 FAM＊4/M&A/Tax policy •Leverage •NPV & IRR •Balance sheet management •Turnover: CCC＊5/GCMS＊6 •Risk-adjusted hurdle rate (RAHR) Optimal capital structure Cost of equity Optimal dividend policy based on an optimal Trade-off Theory＊7 Pecking order theory capital structure Credit rating: single A level Cost of equity: 8% KPI＝8％ DOE model Net DER: -0.3 to 0.3 Equity spread Reduction of cost of equity through PBR＝PER × ROE IR activities Maximization of shareholder value ＊1 Source based on the following reference: “Financial and Accounting Literacy to Enhance Corporate Value” (2016) Nikkei Publishing Inc. ＊2 Signaling effect: Potential impact on stock price by showing management’s belief in the achievement of revenue forecast through dividend policy ＊3 Catering effect: Potential impact on stock price by meeting the expectation of shareholders’ preference for dividend ＊4 FAM: Fixed Asset Monetization ＊5 CCC: Cash Conversion Cycle ＊6 GCMS: Global Cash Management System ＊7 Trade-off Theory: Idea to pursue optimal capital structure for debt finance and equity finance to use for balancing the costs and benefits ● ROE management -target a positive equity spread over the mediumto long-termEisai has been working to improve its mediumto long-term ROE since the beginning of the 2000s. Eisai aims to avoid short-termism and achieve ROE above cost of equity over the mediumto long-term (e.g., 10year average). In other words, Eisai aims to create a “positive equity spread (ROE – Cost of shareholders’ equity).” Cost of shareholders’ equity is the return demanded by shareholders and Eisai has conservatively assumed a cost of shareholders’ equity of 8%. Eisai is generating a historical 10-year average ROE of 10.3% and a positive equity spread of 2.3%. 32 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ● Trends in ROE by fiscal year and mediumto long-term value creation （％） 20 Historical 10-year average ROE （10.3％） 16.4 14.3 15 11.4 10.9 9.4 10 9.6 7.6 7.7 8.8 5 Cost of equity （8％） 6.8 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) Equity spread: ROE – Cost of equity (CoE) Historical 10-year equity spread The key indicator of shareholder value creation based Historical 10-year average ROE: 10.3% − CoE 8% = 2.3% on residual income model ＊ ＊Results up to fiscal 2011 were calculated pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in Japan (J-GAAP), while results from fiscal 2012 to 2017 E  isai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% were calculated pursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). (risk-free rate of 2% + risk premium of 6%) ＊ “ROE Revolution and Financial Strategies” CHUOKEIZAI-SHA (2015) Turnover Financial Margin leverage Improve asset Utilize financial ＝ × × Improve the ratio of efficiency by leverage while ROE operating profit controlling working controlling Net DER by operating capital, converting with target of efficiently fixed assets -0.3 to 0.3 for into cash financial integrity Under the DuPont method, ROE can be analyzed by three elements consisting of margin (ratio of profit to revenue), turnover (total asset turnover ratio) and financial leverage. Eisai is focusing on optimizing each of these three elements. Increase margins Eisai has focused on expanding high-profit global brands discovered and developed in-house, such as Lenvima®, Halaven® and Fycompa®. Eisai is aiming to improve margin by effective operation through utilizing partnerships and emphasizing selection and concentration for priority projects. Improve turnover Eisai has managed the cash conversion cycle (CCC) to control working capital and strived to improve asset efficiency through steps including selling assets encompassing investment securities and streamlining inventory. The Corporate Governance Code, which was revised in June 2018, calls for the validation of benefits and risks of strategically held shares. Before the revision of the Code, Eisai has sold strategically held shares. In fiscal 2017, Eisai sold strategically held shares in 9 stocks (selling all of its shares in 6 of the 9 stocks). Use financial leverage Eisai has pursued an optimal capital structure while maintaining financial integrity. For maintaining a single A level credit rating, we have set the KPIs of Net DER＊ of -0.3 to 0.3, a ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent of 50%-60% and Net Debt/EBITDA of 0-3 years. By undertaking business activities based on financial discipline, we are steadily reducing interest-bearing debt, and we secured net cash as of the end of fiscal 2017. Net DER was negative 0.27, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent was 57% and Net Debt/ EBITDA was negative 1.49 years. Based on the view that we have secured sufficient financial integrity, we believe we can resume our leverage strategies. ＊Net debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months Investment securities held by the parent company) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent 33 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 ● Dividend policy Eisai returns profits to all shareholders in a stable and sustainable manner based on factors such as a healthy balance sheet and comprehensive consideration of consolidated financial results, dividend on equity (DOE, ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent) and free cash flow, as well as consideration of the signaling effect. We strive for an “optimal dividend policy based on an optimal capital structure” that depends on longterm balance sheet management, rather than a dividend payout ratio based on short-term performance. As a KPI for dividends, from the perspective of balance sheet management, Eisai has adopted DOE, which indicates the ratio of dividends to consolidated net assets. In principle, Eisai strives to maintain dividends within the range of free cash flow over multiple years. Eisai is maintaining a healthy balance sheet under present conditions. Therefore, Eisai plans to maintain dividends of 150 yen＊1 per share in fiscal 2018, which is an expectation of numerous shareholders＊2, with an intention of protecting shareholder value. Acquisition of treasury stock will be carried out appropriately after factors such as the market environment and capital efficiency (ROE) are taken into account. ＊1 D  ividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors ＊2 Based on the results of past surveys of individual and institutional investors ● Trends in free cash flow and dividends —Dividends within the range of free cash flow over multiple years— ■Free cash flow ■Dividends (annual total amount) (Billions of yen) 150 136.7 100 87.3 81.2 81.7 61.3 50 42.8 42.8 42.9 42.9 42.9 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017（FY） ＊International Financial Reporting Standards ＊Free cash flow =“Net cash from operating activities”-“Capital expenditures(cash basis) ” # # Expenditures from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures. ● Strong Balance Sheet —Dividend sustainability by maintaining optimal capital structure— (Billions of yen) (%) 700 70 0.63 0.62 598.7 573.7 584.6 593.6 600 526.3 60 0.49 469.4 57％ 59％ 57％ 57％ 500 54％ 50 428.0 415.9 416.8 404.2 47％ 400 41％ 40 37％ 38％ 39％ 300 0.38 0.27 30 200 20 100 0.08 10 0.00 -0.06 -0.11 -0.27 0 0 (100) End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of -10 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 ■Equity attributable to owners of the parent ■Net interest-bearing debt＊1 ■Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent ■ Net debt equity ratio (Net DER)＊2 ＊Results up to end of FY2012 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results from end of FY2013 and onward were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊1 N  et interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months, etc. Investment securities held by the parent company＊3 ＊2 N  et debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months, etc.  Investment securities held by the parent company＊3) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊3 Investment securities held by the parent company are included in the formula from FY2013 under IFRS. ● Eisai’s funding policy Eisai’s funding policy is based on the pecking order theory. Eisai prioritizes “cash on hand” over “debt”. “Equity financing”, which could damage existing shareholder value, is the last option. As an efficient funding measure, Eisai adopts a Global Cash Management System (GCMS) for the effective cash utilization among group companies. 34 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ● VCIC (Value-Creative Investment Criteria) Prioritization and selection of investments will become even more important for companies to achieve growth. Therefore, Eisai has determined Value-Creative Investment Criteria (VCIC) for its strategic investments to ensure value creation. When making investments, we use Net Present Value (NPV) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) spread using a risk-adjusted hurdle rate as KPIs. In principle, we naturally select only those investments with a positive NPV and set a certain spread for IRR to assure value creation. In setting hurdle rates, we factor in all risk elements, such as the particular investment project, the investee country and liquidity. We have approximately 200 types of hurdle rates and apply the risk-adjusted hurdle rate appropriate for each respective investment project. The Corporate Governance Code, which was revised in June 2018, calls for the allocation of management resources in consideration of cost of shareholders’ equity. Eisai already introduced VCIC in advance in 2013 to ensure corporate value creation. Formula of risk-adjusted hurdle rate Risk-adjusted hurdle rate = Risk free rate + β × Risk premium (+ liquidity premium) Risk free rate: 10 year average yield of 10 year government bond β: Defined by investment categories (risk profile) KPI for finance under medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025’ Under the medium-term business plan KPIs FY2020 Targets ‘EWAY 2025’, we aim to attain ROE at the 10% level and an equity spread ROE 10% level at the 2% level for fiscal 2020, as the midpoint of the plan. For fiscal 2025, Equity spread＊1 2% level the final year of the plan, Eisai is mindful of attaining ROE at the 15% level on 8% level DOE＊2 (Maintain ¥150 dividend per share) the back of dramatic growth spurred Ratio of equity attributable to by contributions of flagship drugs in the 50-60% owners of the parent neurology area and oncology area. With DOE as a KPI, we will pursue Net DER＊3 -0.3 to 0.3 an optimal dividend policy based on an optimal capital structure and work 15% level ROE in FY2025 to maintain dividends of 150 yen per ＊Dividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors. ＊1 Equity spread = ROE Cost of equity. Eisai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% share. ＊2 DOE = Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊3 N et DER: Net Debt Equity Ratio = (Interest-bearing debts (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding 3 months, etc. Investment securities held by the parent company)/Equity attributable to owners of the parent Promoting engagement that emphasizes our “premium” (total of approximately 700 dialogues per year) We believe that promoting an understanding of our the CFO holds approximately 200 dialogues every non-financial information is essential for realizing year, including with overseas investors. The CFO the objectives of our engagement, which is to have and IR team strive to reduce cost of equity and are our corporate value assessed from the perspective committed to promoting engagement based on of mediumto long-term corporate value creation. the idea of “IR is not a cost center and contributes This non-financial information covers areas such to corporate value creation.” In a report issued as intellectual capital centering on our pipeline by SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. senior analyst, and patents; human capital that handles our Yasuhiro Nakazawa, on June 19, 2014, Eisai’s operations; our initiatives for improving access PER was noted as being more than 10% above to medicines; and our corporate governance. To the industry average. The report referred to this as attain this objective, Eisai’s IR team holds a total an IR premium and attributed it to investors’ high of approximately 700 dialogues with investors regard of Eisai’s clear capital policy and adept IR and analysts on an annual basis. Among these, activities. 35 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Social and Relationship Capital Improving Access to Medicines (ATM) Making our medicines available to those who need them Eisai is promoting initiatives for improving ATM to contribute to people in developing and emerging countries Number of countries supplied with lymphatic filariasis treatment DEC tablets and volume supplied (as of July 2018) 28 countries 1.44 billion tablets possible.” Putting this wish into each tablet, Eisai is Investing in the Future of Developing and engaged in activities for improving ATM with the aim Emerging Countries of ensuring that people in developing and emerging “We want to deliver as many necessary medicines countries receive the medicines they need. ATM is as possible and nurture hope in as many people as a basic need for all people regardless of nationality, economic disparities or social standing. Today, approximately 2 billion people around the world do not have adequate access to medicines＊, most of whom are the poor in developing and emerging countries who also lack proper information about health and diseases. Eisai believes that improving ATM in developing and emerging countries is a long-term investment that will support the health of the people living in these countries and ultimately lead to the future growth of these nations as a whole. Eisai utilizes many methods including supply of products at affordable prices as well as public-private partnerships, as it continues to implement various ATM initiatives through its unique business models. ＊ Source: Access to Medicine Index Mass drug administration (MDA) of DEC tablets in Myanmar ▶ https://accesstomedicineindex.org/about-the-index/ 36 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix with the relevant representatives in endemic countries Efforts to Help Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis: to eliminate LF as early as possible. In Indonesia, in Supplying DEC Tablets and Implementing order to raise the awareness of LF in society, Eisai Awareness-Raising Activities staff members have given annual lectures on LF Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a neglected tropical disease since 2015 at the Faculty of Medicine, Gadjah Mada (NTD) transmitted to humans via carrier mosquitoes. University, an institution that supports local health It is estimated that approximately 1 billion people care. Eisai staff also prepare and distribute leaflets in worldwide, mainly those in developing countries, are the local language on the prevention and treatment of exposed to the risk of LF. LF and support implementation of MDA in endemic The World Health Organization (WHO) conducts countries. mass drug administrations (MDAs) in endemic areas Eisai’s activities are highly appreciated by in order to eliminate LF. Eisai is committed to endemic countries. A certificate of appreciation supplying diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets, one for the donation of DEC tablets awarded to Eisai in of the three types of LF medicine used in the January 2018 by the Department of Public Health, MDAs, until complete elimination is achieved in all Ministry of Health and Sports of Myanmar is just one LF endemic countries. such example. In 2013, Eisai obtained WHO prequalification for DEC tablets and commenced production at its Awarded Certificate of Appreciation by Department Vizag Plant in India. Since then, Eisai has provided of Public Health, Ministry of Health and Sports of 1.44 billion DEC tablets to 28 endemic countries Myanmar for the Donation of DEC Tablets through WHO’s elimination program (as of July 2018). Eisai has supplied about 350 million DEC tablets to Furthermore, to support the smooth implementation of Myanmar through WHO since March 2014. Myanmar is WHO’s MDA programs, Eisai is engaging in initiatives one of the three major countries together with India and to raise public awareness of LF in endemic areas. Indonesia to which Eisai has supplied a large amount of Staff members of Eisai’s local subsidiaries cooperate DEC tablets. During the MDA conducted in January 2018, the Department of Public Health, Ministry of Health and Sports ●Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied and the number awarded Eisai a certificate of appreciation with the comment of patients contributed to ＊ (as of July 2018) “We are extremely grateful for the valuable contribution of Eisai’s provision of DEC tablets free of charge”. （million） Cumulative quantity Over 1.44 billion of tablets supplied tablets were supplied 1,500 1,000 Contributing to nearly 580 million patients＊ 500 0 End of End of End of End of End of July 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ＊ The number of patients contributed to is an estimated value, which is converted from the cumulative quantity of tablets supplied based on the assumption that an average of 2.5 tablets is taken per capita in accordance Certificate of Appreciation with the definition of WHO. ●Countries where DEC tablets are scheduled to be supplied by 2020 ● Countries where distribution has commenced WHO South-East Asia Region DEC Tablets ●India ●Indonesia (Diethylcarbamazine) ●Myanmar ●Sri Lanka ●Timor-Leste ●Thailand Bangladesh Nepal WHO Region of the Americas ●Dominican Republic WHO East Mediterranean Region ●Guyana ●Egypt ●Haiti 連携 Coordination Brazil Eisai Head Office Vizag Plant, India WHO African Region WHO Western Pacific Region ●Eritrea ●Kenya ●Madagascar ●Fiji ●French Polynesia ●Kiribati ●Zambia ●Zimbabwe ●Comoros ●Laos ●Malaysia ●Papua New Guinea ●São Tomé and Príncipe ●Philippines ●Samoa ●Micronesia ●Tuvalu Gambia ●American Samoa (Distribution status as of July 2018) 37 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 facilities in endemic regions. For these reasons, Eisai R&D Initiatives for Improving Global Health is actively engaged in external collaborations such Eisai proactively undertakes research on as partnerships with global research organizations pharmaceuticals for treating NTDs and for the three and is participating in international consortiums to major infectious diseases (malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/ share compound libraries, as Eisai seeks to develop AIDS). new drugs for NTDs and the three major infectious These diseases strike people with low incomes in diseases. developing countries, causing them to leave work. Eisai aims to develop new drugs for Chagas This in turn leads to a negative cycle of poverty in disease, a disease transmitted by the assassin bug which people become incapacitated due to disease which is prevalent in 21 countries in Latin America. and become even poorer, and international efforts For this purpose, Eisai is conducting a PhaseⅡ are called upon to tackle this significant global health study of its in-house developed antifungal agent issue. In response, Eisai is currently conducting fosravuconazole (E1224) in partnership with the various projects aimed at developing new treatments Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi). for Chagas disease, filariasis, leishmaniasis and Another PhaseⅡ study of the agent is being mycetoma as well as malaria and tuberculosis. conducted with DNDi for mycetoma, considered Undertaking research activities for these diseases to be one of the most neglected diseases. Mycetoma requires specific expertise, technologies and clinical is transmitted through pricks in the skin and causes trial experience in addition to networks with clinical large lesions. ●NTDs/Three major infectious diseases research project portfolio (As of July 2018) Early research stage Non-clinical Clinical Chagas vaccine (using Eisai’s Novel compounds E1224 – Chagas disease project immunostimulant E6020) ① for Chagas disease ③ (PhaseⅡ study) ⑤ Chagas disease Chagas vaccine (using Eisai’s NTD Drug Discovery Booster ② immunostimulant E6020) ④ Neglected Macrofilaricide Novel anti-Wolbachia Tropical Filariasis Drug Accelerator ⑥ compounds ⑦ Diseases (NTDs) Leishmaniasis NTD Drug Discovery Booster ⑧ E1224 – Eumycetoma project Mycetoma (PhaseⅡ study) ⑨ Screening of novel Novel inhibitor of SJ733 – Inhibitor of compounds for malaria ⑩ Plasmodium Phe tRNA ligase ⑫ Plasmodium ATP4 ⑯ Malaria vaccine (using Eisai’s Inhibitor of Plasmodium immunostimulant E6020) ⑪ GWT1 ⑬ Malaria Three Major TLR9 antagonist Infectious for cerebral malaria ⑭ Diseases Novel compound for artemisinin resistant malaria ⑮ TB Drug Accelerator ⑰ Tuberculosis Novel treatment for tuberculosis ⑱ ■Main partners of the projects ⑥, ⑰ Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (U.S.) ①, ⑪, ⑭ Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz) (Brazil) ⑦, ⑮ L iverpool School of Tropical Medicine (U.K.), University of Liverpool (U.K.) ②, ⑤, ⑧, ⑨ DNDi (Switzerland) ⑩, ⑬ Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) (Switzerland) ③, ⑫ Broad Institute (U.S.) ⑯ Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), University of Kentucky (U.S.) ④ Sabin Vaccine Institute (U.S.) ⑱B  road Institute (U.S.), Colorado State University (U.S.), University of Chicago (U.S.) Please visit the following link for details on projects▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/research.html Regarding Fycompa®, in India where many patients Pricing Policy that Emphasizes Affordability have to pay the full cost of medical expenses outEisai has formulated various flexible pricing policies that of-pocket, a unique scheme has been introduced. enable patients in developing and emerging countries The treatment is provided for free to patients for a to purchase Eisai’s products at affordable prices. These certain period of time, and a proper administration the pricing policies are formulated taking into consideration treatment is implemented once efficacy is confirmed. the social, economic and healthcare environments of For the antiepileptic drug Zonegran®, the patient developing and emerging countries. For example, Eisai assistance program “Livefree” was initiated in India in has been providing Aricept® and Pariet® in India since 2017. This program subsidizes the cost of therapy for 2005, and Revovir® in the Philippines since 2010 at patients in need to help with continuity of treatment, affordable prices that are best suited to the living provides free electroencephalogram tests, and standards of the local patients. provides various kinds of support and tools for disease 38 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ●Cumulative number of patients contributed to via Halaven ® management. In addition, Eisai has introduced “Tiered pricing” “Tiered Pricing”, an affordable pricing model, for the (Number of patients) anticancer agent Halaven® in 8 Asian countries. In this 4,000 model, co-payment is set at several tiers in accordance Contributed to approximately with the income level and health insurance availability 3,000 3,200 patients of the patients, ranging from the full purchase price to 2,000 provision free of charge. During the four-year period, Halaven® was supplied to approximately 3,200 patients 1,000 cumulatively via Tiered Pricing. 0 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Creating Corporate Value and Solutions to Social Problems through Initiatives for Improving ATM Input Output Outcome Intellectual capital Social and Relationship ●Accumulation of knowledge Capital from drug creation activities ●Supply of lymphatic filariasis ●Economic growth in for many years treatment DEC tablets free of developing and emerging charge countries due to Human capital improvement of health ●Employees’ strong motivation ●Activities for raising awareness and welfare, and increase to contribute to patients of lymphatic filariasis in middle-income class supported by the ●Improvement in the value of hhc philosophy ●Supply of products based on Eisai’s corporate brand affordable and tiered pricing Production capital strategies Human capital ●Utilization of the Vizag Plant ●Improvement in employees’ in India for low-cost skills and motivation production Financial capital ●Reduced cost of Social and Relationship Capital manufacturing due to ●Partnership with WHO or increased operation rate international research institutions at the Vizag Plant ●(Very long-term perspective) Financial capital Profits created through ●Healthy balance sheet businesses in developing and emerging countries For the purpose of facilitating the improvement of ATM, positive internal outcomes. Eisai believes that efforts to Eisai utilizes many different types of capital as input improve ATM will increase capital to an extent that is and converts them into many different forms of output greater than the amount of input, through the creation (products and services), such as DEC tablets, through of added value. Eisai’s initiatives for improving ATM business activities. As a result, we pursue the creation go beyond the framework of CSR activities and of positive outcomes such as the improvement of aim at creating long-term value. Supplying DEC health, welfare and economic growth by increasing the tablets free of charge will initially be a loss and thus number of middle-income populations in developing negatively affect profits and ROE in the short term. countries and emerging countries. Eisai also seeks However, from a very long-term perspective, we to enhance the value of its corporate brand, improve estimate that it will boost our NPV (net present employees’ skills and motivation, and reduce costs value) to a positive level through the creation of by increasing the operation rate of the Vizag Plant as the outcomes described above. 2014 and 2016. Eisai’s Initiatives for Improving ATM In addition, Eisai has been selected for the MSCI Highly Evaluated Japan ESG Select Leaders Index as a company The Access to Medicine Foundation, an international with outstanding ESG ratings, and has maintained an nonprofit organization aimed at the improvement of AA ranking in the ESG Index for five consecutive ATM, biennially researches and publishes the Access years since 2014. In this Index, the area of Access to Medicine Index. Eisai was ranked 1st among to Health Care was highlighted as one of Eisai’s Japanese pharmaceutical strengths. Eisai’s implementation of pricing policies in companies and 11th among the pursuit of affordable pricing and its free provision global major pharmaceutical of DEC tablets over a long period of time are well companies consecutively in received. 39 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Intellectual Capital Message from Corporate Officers in Charge of Neurology Area Aiming to be a top runner in the development of next-generation dementia treatments Ivan Cheung (Left) Senior Vice President President, Neurology Business Group Teiji Kimura (Right) Vice President Chief Discovery Officer, Neurology Business Group Strengths Weaknesses 1. Industry-leading R&D pipeline in the dementia area 1. Focus on dementia, an area in which developing new 2. A  bundant experience and knowledge of drug creation and drugs is particularly difficult and large-scale clinical disease awareness activities in the dementia area studies are required, necessitating a large amount of 3. G  lobal strategic partnerships that enable increased probability R&D expenditure of success and accelerated development with optimization of development and commercialization expenses Opportunities Threats 1. E  xpansion of market for dementia treatments as population ages 1. C  ompeting products entering the market 2. E  xpansion of potential market as dementia diagnosis 2. Increasing pressure to lower drug prices as governments technology improves promote policies to reduce healthcare costs Q : What are Eisai’s strengths in the Neurology Q : Why is drug development in the dementia area area? considered to be so difficult? What strengths does Eisai have to overcome the difficulty? A : Cheung Our greatest strength is that we possess an industry-leading pipeline in the A : Kimura The U.S. FDA has not approved any dementia area. We have a total of 11 projects treatments for dementia since 2003, so from that we under development in this space. can surmise that drug development in this area is The projects targeting beta amyloid (Aβ) are incredibly challenging. making remarkable progress. Regarding the anti-Aβ One reason is that high-order functions like protofibril antibody BAN2401＊1,2, the final analysis at cognition are unique to humans, and so it is difficult 18 months of the 856 patient Phase Ⅱ clinical study to create an applicable experimental scenario in early Alzheimer’s disease demonstrated statistically using animal models. For example, even if Aβ or tau significant slowing in clinical decline and reduction of accumulates in a mouse brain, it is not guaranteed that Aβ accumulated in the brain. Additionally, two global the mouse will develop dementia. We need to confirm Phase Ⅲ studies for BACE (beta amyloid cleaving the correlation, including biomarkers, between the enzyme) inhibitor elenbecestat＊1 in patients with reactions of animal models and the changes that occur early Alzheimer’s disease are steadily progressing. inside a dementia patient’s brain or their core symptoms The Phase Ⅱ study conducted in the U.S. was the and to accumulate data. Another reason for the difficulty first study of a BACE inhibitor to show a statistically is that despite the advances made in diagnostic imaging significant reduction of Aβ accumulated in the brain technology like PET (positron emission tomography), while also suggesting a delay of clinical symptom there is still no way to directly observe the changes decline in exploratory endpoints. Moreover, two Phase inside a human brain. ＊1 Ⅲ studies for anti-Aβ antibody aducanumab are Our knowledge and know-how of drug creation ongoing, and the patient enrolment was completed activities accumulated over 35 years in the in July 2018. We are growing more confident in drug dementia area will be a great advantage for our creation activities based on the Aβ hypothesis. success in developing next-generation dementia ＊1 C o-development with Biogen Inc. treatments. We are utilizing the changes in in ＊2 L icensed-in from Bio Arctic AB vivo substances called biomarkers as indicators in order to evaluate high-order functions unique to humans, which is difficult to create an applicable experimental scenario using animal models. This 40 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix method enables us to make more accurate Q : What are the problems with current diagnostic predictions for clinical trials in humans based methods for early AD patients? on the results obtained from animal studies. What is the development status of new Eisai’s accumulated clinical samples, such as blood diagnostic methods? samples, and the accompanying clinical data can be used to further enhance the process. In fact, A : Kimura At present, dementia is diagnosed using the new guidance from FDA for developing drugs PET imaging or cerebrospinal fluid analysis. However, for treatment of early Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and there are some issues with these methods; there the new definition of AD by Alzheimer’s Association are not enough facilities equipped to perform PET and National Institute on Aging in the U.S. considers imaging and cerebrospinal fluid analysis is highly biomarkers important and will support our drug invasive. For our next generation dementia treatments creation activities. In addition, we are actively using that target early AD patients, there is a strong need iPS-derived neural cells made from clinical samples. for a less invasive diagnostic method, such as a blood test. Q : Why is it that so many dementia treatment It is thought that Aβ in the blood includes a small candidates failed in clinical trials? What is amount of a specific soluble Aβ aggregate that Eisai doing differently from other companies? comes from the brain. At present, we are conducting structure observation using Sysmex Corporation’s A : Kimura It is said that there are four elements (right super-resolution fluorescence microscope in an drug discovery target, right patients, right dosage, attempt to identify the uniquely structured soluble Aβ right clinical evaluation indicators) that are important aggregates in the blood. In this way, we are aiming to for a clinical trial to meet its primary endpoint. So we develop a diagnostic method that does not place a can surmise that the failed trials had an issue in one burden on the patient. Currently, Eisai’s accumulated or some of these factors. For example, the failed clinical trial samples are being used to examine how clinical trials may have included patients whose Aβ correlated between the diagnosis of dementia by PET disposition was unknown or patients whose AD had imaging and the structure of Aβ aggregates. advanced to a stage beyond which the mechanism Sysmex Corporation’s of action was effective. Or they may have gotten the super-resolution dosage wrong, or the endpoint selected was not fluorescence microscope sensitive enough for the patient population. In our clinical studies, we have considered these as possible failings and have been incorporating the following factors, which we think will contribute to success: 1) Identifying positive Aβ disposition in early stage AD patients when enrolling for trials 2) S etting appropriate doses for antibodies and small molecule compounds Aβ aggregates as seen Aβ aggregates as 3) S electing a suitable endpoint for evaluating with a regular seen with a supereffects for the early stage AD patients fluorescence resolution fluorescence microscope microscope Q : What is the reason for the expansion of the Q : What are your expansion plans in Neurology? collaboration with Biogen Inc. in October 2017 to develop and commercialize investigational A : Cheung Along with the rapid aging of the AD treatments? population, the global market for dementia treatments is also expanding. While this is a business opportunity A : Cheung The greatest reason for the expansion for Eisai, it is also a large threat for mankind. We of the collaboration with Biogen Inc. and the exercise need to develop next generation dementia treatments of the option to jointly develop and commercialize with a sense of mission. In order to make Eisai a aducanumab is to aim to increase probability top runner in the development of next generation of success in development of all three next dementia treatments, we are aggressively investing in generation AD treatment candidates. We believe our industry leading pipeline. that the combination of Eisai’s abundant experience in The submission of an orexin receptor antagonist drug discovery activities and the valuable information lemborexant＊ for insomnia disorder indication is on aducanumab will enhance the probability of anticipated in fiscal 2018. Antiepileptic agent Fycompa® success in development of not only aducanumab but was approved as monotherapy used for the treatment also elenbecestat and BAN2401. of partial-onset seizures in the U.S. in July 2017, and Strategic partnerships that enable increased an application was submitted to expand the indication probability of success and accelerated for use in the treatment in pediatric patients in the U.S. development with optimization of development in March 2018. Through these developments, we aim and commercialization expenses are one of the to contribute to new patients. great strengths of Eisai. ＊ Co-development with Purdue Pharma L.P. 41 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Intellectual Capital Development of New Potential Dementia Treatments Industry-leading, abundant R&D pipeline What is Dementia? Dementia is a condition characterized by the occurrence of a variety of disorders and the emergence of impediments to everyday life due to the death of brain cells and a worsening of cognitive functions resulting from various causes. There are different types of dementia. Symptoms of Alzheimer’s, the most prevalent dementia, are mainly those related to memory impairment (core symptom), while behavioral and psychological symptoms (BPSD) such as delusions and hallucinations, violence, wandering and depression can also be observed. Other types of the disease include dementia with Lewy bodies and vascular dementia, among others. All of these are characteristically progressive. An Ever-Increasing Number of Dementia Patients In 2015, there were an estimated 46.78 million ●Trends in the number of dementia patients in the world (millions of persons) dementia patients worldwide. As the aging of ■ Number of dementia patients in high income countries the global population gathers pace, the number ■ Number of dementia patients in low and middle income countries of dementia patients is expected to continue trending upward and increase approximately Expansion of 2.8 times 131.45 1.6 times to 74.69 million patients in 2030 and approximately 2.8 times to 131.45 million in 42.18 Expansion of 1.6 times 2050. Of particular note, the rate of increase in dementia patients in low and middle income 74.69 countries is projected to significantly exceed the rise in high income countries. Therefore, 27.95 46.78 89.28 promoting initiatives to address dementia 19.50 is a global issue and there are hopes that 46.74 therapeutic agents that satisfy these unmet 27.28 medical needs will be developed quickly. 0 2015 2030 2050 (year) Source: World Alzheimer Report 2015: The Global Impact of Dementia Pathogenic Mechanism of Alzheimer’s Disease Alzheimer’s disease is associated with the occurrence of neuronal cell death as a result of the gradual accumulation of proteins in the brain, called beta amyloid (Aβ) from long before the onset of symptoms, such as memory impairment. The accumulation of Aβ is considered to accelerate the tau pathology and might be the cause of neuronal cell death, resulting from the accumulation of tau. The accumulation of aggressive factors such as Aβ and tau is considered to be the potential target of Alzheimer’s disease treatment. ●Pathogenic mechanism of Alzheimer’s disease Accumulations of beta amyloid (Aβ) inside the brain Accumulations of tau inside the brain Change in brain structure Impairment of memory Impairment of Accumulations of Aβ begin more than 15 to 20 clinical function years prior to the appearance of Alzheimer’s disease symptoms. Various changes occur within the brain up to the point when abnormalities in clinical cognitive functions can be observed. Mild cognitive Dementia impairment (mild→moderate→severe) 42 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Five Next Generation Alzheimer’s Disease Treatment Projects Including Collaboration with Biogen Inc. E2814 Elenbecestat ＊1 (Anti-tau antibody) BIIB076＊2 (Anti-tau antibody) (BACE inhibitor) Amyloid precursor Biogen Inc. protein (APP) Beta-secretase (BACE) Cuts APP at N-terminal side Hyperphosphorylation and accumulation of tau in neuronal cell Aducanumab＊1 Gamma-secretase (Anti-Aβ antibody) Cuts APP at C-terminal side Beta amyloid Neuronal cell function disorder Monomer (Aβ) Greater tendency to bond together Amyloid Aβ fibrils plaque Neurofibrillary Insoluble fibrous aggregates tangle BAN2401＊1, 3 Deposit and form amyloid plaque (Anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody) (may cause neuronal cell death) Neuronal cell death Aβ protofibrils Decline in Large soluble aggregates cognitive function Highly neurotoxic (Induce neurodegenerative process and cause neuronal cell death) ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Eisai has an option to jointly develop and commercialize ＊3 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB ● Investigational BACE Inhibitor elenbecestat developed in-house (co-development with Biogen Inc.) Discovered by the Tsukuba Research Laboratories, this compound inhibits BACE (beta-site amyloid precursor proteincleaving enzyme), which is the enzyme involved in the production of Aβ. While BACE is generally classified as BACE1 and BACE2, elenbecestat shows relative selectivity to BACE1 which is potentially related to Aβ production in the brain. Elenbecestat is currently in Phase Ⅲ studies aiming for launch shortly after fiscal 2020. ● Investigational anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401 (co-development with Biogen Inc.) This anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody is in-licensed from BioArctic AB. BAN2401 has a unique characteristic to bind and reduce highly toxic Aβ protofibrils. In July 2018, the final analysis at 18 months of Phase Ⅱ study of BAN2401 achieved statistical significance in both endpoints of slowing in clinical decline and reduction of Aβ accumulated in the brain. ● Investigational anti-Aβ antibody aducanumab (co-development with Biogen Inc.) This anti-Aβ antibody is discovered by Neurimmune AG and developed by Biogen Inc. Eisai has exercised its option to jointly develop and commercialize aducanumab in October 2017. Aducanumab is currently in Phase Ⅲ studies and the patient enrollment for the studies was completed in July 2018. ● Investigational anti-tau antibody E2814 Eisai is independently developing an antibody to tau, which is considered one of the causative substances of Alzheimer’s disease, and initiation of clinical studies is anticipated in fiscal 2018. ● Investigational anti-tau antibody BIIB076 under development by Biogen Inc. Biogen Inc. is currently conducting a Phase Ⅰ study for BIIB076. Eisai has a right to exercise its option for joint development and commercialization after the completion of the Phase Ⅰ study. 43 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 New Paradigm of Drug Discovery against Dementia: Three Pillars and 11 Projects under Development Aducanumab*1 Elenbecestat*1 BAN2401*1,2 E2814 BIIB076*3 E6011 Early AD Early AD Early AD AD/dementia AD/dementia AD/dementia Anti-Aβ antibody BACE inhibitor Anti-Aβ protofibrils Anti-tau antibody Anti-tau antibody Anti-fractalkine antibody antibody Ideation Stage Reactive Aβ Accumulation of aggressive factors Tau Intracerebral Glial Cells clearance enhancer through reinforcing protective mechanism Genetic background Brain homeostasis Brain maintenance Protective improving agent system mechanism Environmental targeting astrocyte factor Neural stem cell Transformation of symptoms over time Sleep Behavioral Cognitive activation agent disorder disorder disorder Lemborexant*4 E2730 E2082 E2027 ISWRD*5 associated with Epilepsy Epilepsy Dementia with EphA4 Novel synapse Next generation Lewy bodies Synapse modulator Alzheimer’s disease/dementia AMPA receptor function modulator PDE9 inhibitor Dual orexin receptor antagonist antagonist ＊ AD: Alzheimer’s disease ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB ＊3 Developed by Biogen Inc. Eisai has an option to jointly develop and commercialize. ＊4 Co-development with Purdue Pharma L.P. ＊5 ISWRD: Irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder Eisai believes that it is important to focus on three pillars for the development of next-generation dementia treatments: 1. Accumulation of aggressive factors, such as Aβ, tau and reactive glial cells 2. Transformation of symptoms over time which sleep disorder, behavioral disorder and cognitive disorder are considered to appear in order, and 3. Brain maintenance system. Medicine Creation Targeting Accumulation of Aggressive Factors Development of next-generation AD treatments has been conducted ●Neuron interference by reactive glial cells focusing on aggressive factors, such as Aβand tau. Eisai is developing BACE inhibitor elenbecestat, anti-Aβprotofibrils antibody BAN2401 and anti-Aβantibody aducanumab under the collaboration with Biogen Inc. In addition, in-house anti-tau antibody E2814 is currently under development. Eisai has an option to jointly develop and commercialize anti-tau antibody BIIB076, which is under development by Biogen Inc. Eisai has projects focusing on reactive glial cells. Glial cells, which phagocytose Aβand tau, turn reactive glial cells that are thought to induce neural cell damages by releasing excessive inflammatory factors when they are in activation state for a long period of time, along with Aβand tau aggregation. Anti-fractalkine antibody E6011, which is under development targeting for rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel diseases, is thought to bind with fractalkine, a chemokine that is induced on vascular endothelial cells during inflammation, and by suppressing either the inflammation or the immune cell activity, prevents reactive glial cells from interfering with neurons. 44 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Medicine Creation Targeting Transformation of Symptoms Over Time In recent years, the occurrence of transformation of symptoms over time has become increasingly known: It starts as a sleep disorder 10 to 20 years before the diagnosis of dementia, followed by behavioral disorder then cognitive impairment, in that order. It is known that sleep facilitates the excretion of Aβ from the brain. A sleep disorder may also accelerate the accumulation of Aβ and potentially lead to Alzheimer’s disease. Eisai is conducting clinical studies for lemborexant, an antagonist to dual orexin receptors, which are involved in the regulation of sleep and awakening; submission for insomnia disorder indication is anticipated in fiscal 2018. In addition, Eisai is conducting a Phase Ⅱ study for patients with irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder (ISWRD) due to Alzheimer’s disease/dementia. Depression, epilepsy, anxiety, dysosmia and other forms of behavioral disorders are considered to follow sleep disorders. It is considered that suppression of behavioral disorders would potentially delay the onset of Alzheimer’s disease. Eisai also develops new drugs for epilepsy and other neurological disorders. For example, E2082 is a next generation AMPA receptor antagonist and E2730 is a novel synapse function modulator. Furthermore, Eisai is developing E2027, a PDE9 inhibitor targeting dementia with Lewy bodies. Eisai is also conducting a study for drug discovery targeting EphA4, which concerns synapse stabilization. The tip of a neuron is called a synapse and has a swelled ●Synapse micro-environment nodular shape. Synapses do not appress adjacent neurons and this slight gap between neurons is called a synaptic gap. In a synaptic gap, an electric signal is changed into a chemical substance (a neurotransmitter) that transmits information to the next neuron. When an electric signal is transmitted to the synapse, a neurotransmitter from the synapse vesicle is secreted in the synaptic gap and binds with a receptor in the cell membrane of the next neuron. An electric signal impulse then occurs and information is transmitted to the next neuron. In dementia patients, accumulation of abnormal proteins such as Aβ cause dysfunction of the synapses, which leads to loss of synapses and death of neurons. Eisai is working on projects to revitalize neurons by improving the synapse micro-environment and restoring synapse function. Medicine Creation Targeting Brain Maintenance System It is a known fact that the brain has many protective mechanisms. It is reported that the brain’s protective mechanisms include functions that phagocytose and remove foreign substances such as Aβ, functions that repair damaged neuronal cells as well as functions that promote the regeneration of neural cells through neural stem cell differentiation. The brain is composed of neural cells, glial cells and blood vessels. Glial cells play a role in maintaining the existence of neural cells and the brain environment, as well as supporting metabolism. Accounting for approximately 10 to 50 times the number of neural cells, glial cells make up more than half of the cells in the human brain. The most common type of glial cell is the astrocyte. Similar to neural cells, astrocytes are known to receive neurotransmitters and release various transmitters, and are believed to structurally support the brain and act as a mechanism for stimulating neural transmission and nourishment. Another type of glial cell is microglia, which are known as cells that exert immune functions in the central nervous system. In a normal state, microglia move about in a ramified form and survey the surrounding environment, and when activated, migrate to the site of injury and phagocytose damaged cells and extracellular proteins such as Aβ. Believing that the brain maintenance system supported by these protective mechanisms can be considered as an important target for new drug discovery aiming to cure dementia, Eisai has commenced joint research with Keio University in this area. 45 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Initiatives for Dementia Area Offering Solutions that Go Beyond Providing Pharmaceuticals Undertaking a variety of activities for solving issues faced by patients, their families and the community and for building a foundation for a society that coexists with dementia A 20-Year Journey with Aricept® -Enhancing Recognition of Dementia in the World Eisai launched the in-house developed dementia treatment Aricept® in 1999. The introduction of Aricept® as Japan’s first Alzheimer’s disease treatment provided patients and their families with great hope. In the following section, Dr. Kazuo Hasegawa, Director Emeritus at the Tokyo Dementia Care Research and Training Center, describes the differences between the situation today and the times prior to the launch of Aricept® when there were no treatments for dementia. “Donepezil was a ray of light in the darkness.” “During my practicing days, doctors had no available Meeting of the Japan Academy on Alzheimer’s Disease treatments for Alzheimer’s disease even when the disease was diagnosed at an early stage. Because of and primary doctors that transcend fields of medical this, doctors would express their regrets to patients care and to support a proper paradigm shift. This and their families with a sense of powerlessness and academy, which was attended by 300 people at the futility. Now, donepezil (Aricept®) can be administered first session, is now attended by approximately 1,500 at clinical sites and this is providing patients, their families as well as doctors with a doctors each year. sense of hopeful fulfillment. This These initiatives have produced positive results and hopefulness is one of the major have helped significantly increase the awareness of differences from the feeling of dementia throughout the world. Dr. Shigeki Kuzuhara, powerlessness that I recall from Professor Emeritus at Mie University, describes these the past.” changes below. Dr. Kazuo Hasegawa (2009) “For me, the most notable and greater-than-expected Director Emeritus, Tokyo Dementia Care effect of Aricept® in Japanese society was the major Research and Training Center change in the approach and awareness in dealing with dementia. Prior to the launch of Aricept®, dementia Back then, however, dementia was still described was regarded as a symptom of aging. There was little in Japan as “senility,” and the understanding of awareness that this was a disease needing therapeutic this disease and its diagnostic methods had not intervention. The arrival of Aricept® transformed this adequately spread throughout society. Eisai was awareness. I believe this was a major turning point that led to efforts to overcome dementia with the acutely aware that the environment surrounding involvement of not just medical practitioners, patients dementia patients would never change just by and caregivers but also with the participation of all providing Aricept®. Acting on this recognition, Eisai citizens in Japan. The limitations of drug therapy with proactively promoted a variety of initiatives to break Aricept® were also clearly demonstrated at the same through the status quo approach toward dementia. time and this helped promote a wide acceptance First, Eisai repeatedly carried out disease awareness of the importance of care for coping with peripheral symptoms (Behavioral and activities for Alzheimer’s disease through civic forums Psychological Symptoms of and its website. To date, Eisai has held meetings for Dementia (BPSD)).” dementia disease awareness on approximately 2,000 occasions in Japan and around 10,000 times globally. For the diagnosis of dementia, Eisai has actively Dr. Shigeki Kuzuhara (2013) worked to promote the spread of simple diagnostic Dean, Graduate School of Health Science Professor, Department of Nursing, Faculty of methods, such as the Hasegawa Dementia Scale and Nursing, Suzuka University of Medical Science MMSE*, which are more suitable for clinical practice. Professor Emeritus (Neurology), Mie University School of Medicine In 2000, Eisai launched the Japan Academy for Alzheimer’s Disease together with doctors. This was ＊MMSE (Mini Mental State Examination) was developed in the U.S. in 1974 for diagnosing dementia and other diseases. This is an examination mainly for set up in order to promote discussions about various measuring recall, calculation ability, language ability and orientation. issues regarding dementia among medical specialists 46 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Increase in Partnership Agreements for Dementia Taking a cue from the launch of Aricept®, Eisai high acclaim and we expanded these partnership has conducted disease awareness activities and agreements to regions across Japan. We have the provision of information in cooperation with concluded partnership agreements for dementia with local governments and medical associations. In 138 municipalities/medical associations/pharmacist 2008, we started activities to support the building associations in Japan as of the end of July 2018. Our of communities living with patients with dementia, partnership network covers 34 prefectures, as shown aiming for more concrete activities based on the in the figure below. We aim to expand the network to accumulation of experience and knowledge. all prefectures in Japan. In 2010, Eisai entered into a community development partnership with Asahi Ward in ■3  4 prefectures in which Eisai has Yokohama City. This was the first agreement to concluded partnership agreements support dementia patients at the community level in for dementia with municipalities and Japan. Through this agreement, we have compiled others (as of the end of July 2018) numerous achievements. These include implementing a community needs survey to formulate the Asahi Ward Welfare Plan; participating in the Home Medical Care Liaison Council; holding a study workshop with the Area Comprehensive Support Center and consulting doctors; and convening a study workshop for specialists. These achievements earned Developing the hhc Solutions Business : Aiming to Build the Foundation for a Society that Coexists with Dementia Throughout almost 20 years of disease awareness of providing a variety of solutions in cooperation activities in the dementia area, Eisai learned that with partners including counterparts of the dementia the provision of pharmaceuticals was not enough partnership agreements to meet the unmet needs of to satisfy the truly unmet dementia-related needs. patients and their families and build the foundation for Since April 2016, Eisai has engaged in the business a society that coexists with dementia. Educational materials on dementia Children and students are less likely to be exposed to patients with dementia due to the trend of nuclear families. Eisai started to sell teaching materials for elementary and junior high and high school students in December 2017, considering it as very important to learn about dementia, and think and discuss together how patients with dementia feel and how people should treat them. We created a DVD which is a live action drama of a grandmother with dementia and her family. It helps viewers learn how patients with dementia feel and how to treat them. Textbooks for students and guides for instructors are also available. Educational materials on dementia Use of educational materials on dementia in community-run seminars for training young supporters of patients with dementia We interviewed Dr. Tsutomu Hamada, the director of Kiire Hamada Clinic. He is devoted to dementia education for children and has been holding a number of dementia seminars at elementary and junior high schools. Q: How did you become involved with dementia education? A: When my grandmother developed dementia, I was sad because as an elementary school student I didn’t know how to cope at the time. I want children to understand dementia and learn about the disease early on, which motivated me to get involved in dementia education. Q: How do you use the educational DVD? A: We held a young supporter training seminar at Hitokura Elementary School in Kagoshima on January 23, 2018. The staff from the Community General Support Center and local residents participated as well as students, their guardians and teachers. After all the participants watched the DVD, they were divided into groups to think and discuss how the grandmother felt and how they should interact with her. I’m sure it helped that the participants gain a stronger interest and a deeper understanding of the disease. Dr. Hamada’s seminars 47 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 A tool to support going out “Me-MAMORIO®” In September 2017, Eisai launched “Me-MAMORIO®” in Japan. It is a tool to support people with dementia and seniors going out freely. Me-MAMORIO® is a lightweight device that looks like a round button for the sake of portability, aimed at people with dementia and seniors. Me-MAMORIO® can be sewn onto a jacket or hat or put in a bag or wallet. Eisai and joint development partner MAMORIO, Inc. performed demonstration experiments aiming 2 for implementation in cooperation with local governments and community residents. The results 1 were used for refining Me-MAMORIO®, including 3 modifying the shape and weight of tags to make them easier to carry and improving the accuracy of positional data. Additionally, it was determined that in conjunction with the usage of Me-MAMORIO®, it would be important to create a supportive environment, including a human network, in order to support people with dementia and seniors going out freely. Together with the widespread use of Me-MAMORIO®, Eisai is supporting the establishment of an environment where the community as a whole can look out for people with dementia and seniors. Dr. Kazuhiro Ota, chairman of Takehara Healthcare and Nursing Association At Hiroshima Takehara Healthcare and Nursing Association, we concluded a cooperation agreement with Eisai on building a community that coexists with dementia in July 2016. We established a dementia watch group to conduct training to help the lost and wandering elderly persons using with a tracking tool to support them when they go out and set up a network for watching over the elderly. We have made efforts to raise awareness through civic forums and movie screenings, and conduct approach training. During the training, by ascertaining the approximate position with Me-MAMORIO®, participants could approach and find a missing Dr. Kazuhiro Ota person more easily and quickly than when they only have information about the The director of Ota Orthopedic person’s clothes or gender. We would like to continue activities for increasing & Intermedicine Clinic awareness and understanding of dementia while building a watching-over network Chairman of Takehara ® Healthcare and Nursing using Me-MAMORIO . Association Aiming to Further Raise Patient Satisfaction Levels Approximately every five years since fiscal 1994, the ●Trends in treatment satisfaction levels and medicine Japan Health Sciences Foundation has implemented contribution levels for Alzheimer’s disease a questionnaire survey mainly targeting physicians that 60% asks about treatment satisfaction levels and medicine Medicine contribution level contribution levels for 60 socially important diseases. × According to this survey, treatment satisfaction levels 40% × FY2014 ◆ FY2010 and medicine contribution levels for Alzheimer’s ● FY2005 disease are steadily rising even though these are still ■ FY2000 ◆ lower compared with other diseases. Eisai believes 20% ▲ FY1994 these increases are a manifestation of the positive ■ results of Eisai’s activities centering on disease ● ▲ awareness activities and support for “community 0% building” in addition to the provision of Aricept®. 0% 20% 40% 60% Eisai will make its utmost efforts to satisfy the needs Treatment satisfaction level of patients and their families. Source: J  apan Health Sciences Foundation, Fiscal 2015 Domestic Basic Technology Survey Report “Survey on Medical Care Needs for 60 Diseases and New Medical Care Needs II” 48 Intellectual Capital Message from Corporate Officers in Charge of Oncology Area Aim to realize new value creation through innovative business models Terushige Iike (Left) Senior Vice President President, Oncology Business Group Takashi Owa (Right) Vice President Chief Medicine Creation Officer, Oncology Business Group, Chief Discovery Officer, Oncology Business Group Strengths 1. Capability to create products supported by superior drug discovery science and organic synthetic chemistry 2. M aximization of patient contribution and product value based on our “Ricchi” ＊ strategy, which aims to fulfill unmet medical needs and establish position as a standard treatment 3. Strategic partnerships that enable the realization of new value creation 4. Progress of pipeline following Halaven® and Lenvima® (E7386, MORAb-202, E7130, H3B-6527, H3B-8800, H3B-6545) ＊ For further details, please refer to page 21. Weaknesses 1. D  iscovery of biologics (antibody drugs) following MORAb-202 2. P  roactive initiatives based on predicting the rise of innovative new therapies (game changers) are still at an early stage Opportunities Threats 1. E  xpansion of oncology market along with creation of 1. R  evolutionary competitive products entering the market high value-added drugs, as well as economic growth in 2. Increasing pressure to lower drug prices as governments developing and emerging countries promote policies to reduce healthcare costs 2. R  eform of regulatory environment in China 3. C  hange in treatment system through artificial intelligence (AI) and innovation in diagnostic technology Q: What are Eisai’s strengths in the area of Oncology? A: Iike Our greatest strength is capability to create Owa Lenvima® was created from the unique fusion products supported by superior drug discovery of the innovative and distinctive in vitro and in vivo science and organic synthetic chemistry. Lenvima® is model system established by the Tsukuba Research a unique in-house tyrosine kinase inhibitor, possessing Laboratory biology team and an extremely intricate a novel binding mode for target kinase and an inhibitory drug design by the chemistry team. The project team action for FGFR (fibroblast growth factor receptor) didn’t just focus on the creation of VEGF (vascular or RET, created through an original drug discovery endothelial growth factor) pathway inhibitors. Rather, approach and superior drug discovery science. their design concept was to look at the entire tumor Halaven® is an in-house microtubule dynamics angiogenesis process, and by inhibiting it, produce life inhibitor which endorses our superior organic synthetic extending effects in vivo. As a result, Lenvima® has a chemistry. In pharmaceutical R&D, finding innovative unique mechanism of action which selectively inhibits candidate compounds during the basic research stage both the kinases involved in maintaining the tumor is of course very important. But equally important is microenvironment and the kinases involved in the the technology to efficiently synthesize the compound proliferation of cancer cells, in a well-balanced way. and link it to commercial production. In that sense, I think that Halaven® was truly innovative, as it was created via the successful industrial synthesis of a naturally-derived compound with a complex chemical structure; a groundbreaking achievement at the time. 49 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 ●The tumor regression effect by combination therapy of Lenvima ® with KEYTRUDA® on endometrial cancer ＊ Change from baseline in target lesion size (%) 40 MSI status PD-L1 status ○ ■ MSI-H ＋ Positive 20 + ■ MSS － Negative ○ ■ Not available ○ Not done ○ ○ ○ 0 ○ + ○ + ○ ○ -20 ○ + ○ ○ + ○ － + － － ○ ○ － ○ ○ － ○ -40 ○ + － ○ － ○ － -60 － ○ ○ ○ + － -80 + + ○ ○ -100 + + ○ ＊Presented at American Society of Clinical Oncology 2018 Annual Meeting Iike Another strength is our initiatives to maximize is ongoing for renal cell carcinoma, endometrial product value based on “Ricchi” strategy, cancer, head and neck cancer, non-small cell lung which focuses on competitive superiority and cancer, urothelial cancer and melanoma. Study differentiation. Indication expansion for Lenvima® is 116 is ongoing for hepatocellular carcinoma. We proceeding very smoothly. Lenvima® is approved for have obtained favorable results in these studies the treatment of thyroid cancer in over 50 countries, so far. For example, 47.2% ORR (independent and also approved in combination with everolimus for imaging review) has been observed in patients with the treatment of renal cell carcinoma (second-line) in endometrial carcinoma, which suggests the potential over 45 countries. Regarding the third indication of for significant contribution to patients. We received hepatocellular carcinoma, we obtained approval in Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA for Japan in March 2018, and in the U.S., Europe and combination therapy with advanced and/or metastatic South Korea in August 2018, and are aiming to obtain non-microsatellite instability high (MSI-H)/proficient approval in China in fiscal 2018. mismatch repair endometrial carcinoma in July 2018. Additionally, Phase Ⅲ study (Study 307) in Synergies in anticancer effect have been observed combinations with anti-PD-1 antibody KEYTRUDA® or with the combination of Lenvima® and anti-PD-1 everolimus in renal cell carcinoma (first-line for patients antibody. Results from preclinical studies showed without systemic therapy) is underway. that antitumor activity of the anti-PD-1 antibody was Moreover, we are conducting clinical studies enhanced with Lenvima® administration by reducing evaluating the combination of Lenvima® and tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) and increasing KEYTRUDA® in multiple cancer types. Study 111 activated cytotoxic T cells, which attack cancer cells. ●The main mechanism to strengthen efficacy of anti-PD-1 antibody by Lenvima ® ■Self-protection of cancer cells against ■The mechanism of tumor associated macrophages cytotoxic T cells Anti-PD-1 antibody Tumor associated PD-1 PD-1 macrophages PD-L1 PD-L1 Cytotoxic Cancer Weakened T cells Weakened Inhibits cells attack Cytotoxic action Cancer attack cells T cells To protect themselves, cancer cells inhibit the action of Tumor associated macrophages are cells that cancer cells activate cytotoxic T cells attacking cancer cells through the to protect themselves and inhibit the attack of cytotoxic T cells binding between PD-1 and PD-L1 ■The mechanism of Lenvima® ■The work of anti-PD-1 antibody Anti-PD-1 antibody Tumor associated Anti-PD-1 antibody PD-1 macrophages PD-1 PD-L1 PD-L1 Attack Inhibits Attack more strongly action Cancer Cytotoxic Cancer Cytotoxic cells T cells cells T cells Lenvima® The anti-PD-1 antibody releases the brake on the Lenvima® activates cytotoxic T cells by inhibiting the action of cytotoxic T cells by inhibiting the binding between tumor associated macrophages, which results in attacking the PD-1and PD-L1, which results in attacking the cancer cells cancer cells more strongly 50 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix The agreement of strategic collaboration with potential to expand indications. Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. As a result, the collaboration will significantly Merck) concluded in March 2018 to maximize the expand contribution to patients and lower the costs potential of Lenvima® is a game-changer. Under the and risks in development by sharing R&D costs with collaboration with U.S. Merck, clinical studies for U.S. Merck. Even though U.S. Merck has conducted 11 indications in six types of cancer; endometrial clinical studies on combinations of KEYTRUDA® with carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, non-small other tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), this is the first cell lung cancer, head and neck cancer, melanoma time for them to develop a combination through this and bladder cancer, will be conducted. Moreover, a kind of comprehensive collaboration. We believe basket trial targeting other multiple cancer types will Lenvima® has potential as the best TKI suitable for be conducted simultaneously aiming to seek further combination therapy with an anti-PD-1 antibody. ●Indications of Lenvima ® Approved indications Potential new indications as of end of August 2018 3 indications in Combination therapies with KEYTRUDA® 3 types of cancer 11 indications in 6 types of cancer (Plan to develop multiple indications in each cancer type) Thyroid cancer 1st Line Endometrial Hepatocellular Monotherapy carcinoma carcinoma Non-small cell Melanoma Renal cell carcinoma lung cancer 2nd Line Combination with everolimus Head and Bladder cancer neck cancer Hepatocellular carcinoma＊ 1st Line Renal cell carcinoma Basket trial targeting Monotherapy 1st Line multiple cancer types Combination therapies with Combination therapies KEYTRUDA® or everolimus with KEYTRUDA® ＊Approved in Japan, the U.S., Europe and South Korea ● Payments received under agreement with U.S. Merck Maximum of up to 5.76 billion U.S. dollars in total (approx. 611.0 billion yen＊) ▶ One-time payment: 950 million U.S. dollars (approx. 101.0 billion yen＊) ・Upfront payment: 300 million U.S. dollars (approx. 32.0 billion yen＊) (Received in March 2018) ・One-time option payments associated with U.S. Merck exercising for certain option rights: 650 million U.S. dollars (approx. 69.0 billion yen＊) Plan to receive 325 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2018, 200 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2019, 125 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2020 ▶ Reimbursement for R&D payment: 450 million U.S. dollars (approx. 48.0 billion yen＊) ・450 million U.S. dollars of reimbursement for R&D payment was received in March 2018 and was booked in deposits. The deposits will be withdrawn as Eisai’s share of the R&D expenses concerning Lenvima® occurs, and then booked as the reversal of R&D expenses. ▶M  ilestone payments: Maximum of up to 4.36 billion U.S. dollars in total (approx. 462.0 billion yen＊) ・Clinical and regulatory milestones: Up to 385 million U.S. dollars (approx. 41.0 billion yen＊) including regulatory approval of indications in hepatocellular carcinoma or renal cell carcinoma ・Milestones associated with sales of Lenvima : Maximum of up to 3.97 billion U.S. dollars  ® (approx. 421.0 billion yen＊) ＊USD 1=106 yen 51 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Q: What is the development status of next-generation products that will follow on from Halaven® and Lenvima® ? A: Owa As a third flagship drug candidate, the ●Eisai’s First Antibody-Drug Conjugate (ADC) MORAb-202 small molecule agent E7386 has the potential to This ADC is a combination of farletuzumab, an in-house discovered antibody currently in clinical development, and eribulin, follow Halaven® and Lenvima®. We believe that it a masterpiece of modern synthetic organic chemistry. significantly enhances efficacy in combination therapy with Lenvima® or anti-PD-1 antibody through inhibition of interaction of proteins (CBP and β-catenin) located downstream of Wnt signaling pathways. As for biologics (antibody drugs), a PhaseⅠ study is ongoing for Eisai’s first antibody drug conjugate (ADC) MORAb-202. ADCs are nextgeneration antibody drugs, in which antibody drugs and small molecular drugs (payloads) are chemically conjugated via a suitable linker. MORAb-202 is Eisai’s unique investigational ADC which combines the antibody drug farletuzumab, developed with the antibody technology of our subsidiary Morphotek, Inc., and eribulin (Halaven®), a masterpiece of modern One of our other candidates is the middle organic synthetic chemistry with a novel mechanism molecule compound E7130, which is a compound of action that impacts the tumor microenvironment. synthetically produced from halichondrin through MORAb-202 showed enhanced efficacy and joint research with Harvard University utilizing antitumor activity in triple-negative breast cancer Eisai’s strength in synthetic organic chemistry. We and its tumor microenvironment. Morphotek, Inc., position E7130 as a microenvironment modulator with seeks to expand its business not only focusing on different characteristics from eribulin and PhaseⅠ creating biologics following MORAb-202, but also the study is ongoing for solid tumors. possibility of taking on contract research outsourcing Furthermore, PhaseⅠstudy is ongoing for business. estrogen receptor 1 inhibitor H3B-6545, discovered by our subidiary H3 Biomedicine Inc. H3B-6545 targets hormone receptor positive and HER 2 negative breast cancer, and has potential efficacy in patients resistant to hormone therapy. H3 Biomedicine Inc. has a rich pipeline, conducting PhaseⅠstudies for two other compounds of splicing modulator H3B-8800 and FGFR4 inhibitor H3B-6527. We believe the strategic collaboration in oncology with U.S. Merck enables us to proactively invest in R&D projects. In addition to small molecule compounds, which Eisai has strengths in, we are conducting medicine creation research leveraging Eisai’s uniqueness from middle molecule compounds to biologics (antibody drugs). Q: Are there any marketing challenges for the expansion of Lenvima® ? A: Iike With regard to the second line treatment of granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for advanced renal cell carcinoma, the largest market combination therapy of Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® is the U.S. Even with intensifying competition in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma, under cofollowing the emergence of anti-PD1 antibodies, development with U.S. Merck. we think that there is sufficient evidence that the On the other hand, with regard to the treatment combination therapy of Lenvima® and everolimus for hepatocellular carcinoma, sorafenib is the only will be competitive. This combination therapy was systemic therapy approved in 10 years, and there granted Breakthrough Therapy and Priority Review are still regional gaps in the treatment algorithm. Designation from the FDA and approved based on A local treatment including transcatheter arterial the results of PhaseⅡ study. Recognition of the chemoembolization (TACE), tends to be the most combination therapy of Lenvima® and everolimus is common treatment option. We have to maximize still low, but we can expect increased recognition of contribution to patients by introducing the right Lenvima® through ongoing Phase Ⅲ study for the timing for pharmaceutical therapy by capitalizing first line treatment for renal cell carcinoma as well as on the launch of Lenvima®. And also, we strive to co-commercialization with U.S. Merck. promptly expand contributions to patients under the Additionally, in December 2017 the U.S. FDA collaboration with U.S. Merck. 52 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Q: What are the opportunities and threats in the oncology area? A: Iike It is thought that the creation of groundline with radical advances in artificial intelligence breaking high value-added drugs will further expand (AI) and technology for diagnosis. This can be the oncology market. In addition, we expect the either an opportunity or a threat for our business. market to expand along with economic growth in For example, the U.S. FDA approved KEYTRUDA® developing and emerging countries. for the treatment of solid tumors in adult and Owa The launch of innovative products by the pediatric patients with unresectable or metastatic, competitors is a large threat, but not one that microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch will necessarily take growth opportunities from repair deficient under the Accelerated Approval us. Currently the combination therapies are Program. It was a cutting-edge event for the becoming standard, so if we can demonstrate pharmaceutical industry since the approval is not the scientific rationality of using our agents in based on primary site of cancer, but focuses on combination with new products, then we can characteristics of cancer prescribed by biomarkers. dramatically increase our growth potential. For In the near future, it is quite possible that a new Lenvima® and Halaven®, we are actively developing drug will be approved across internal organs with combination therapies with anti-PD1 antibodies and innovations in biomarkers found based on AI molecular targeted drugs. The key in this case is to analysis of pharma-related big data, which has never demonstrate rational combination mechanisms in been analyzed sufficiently so far. Eisai seeks to both clinical and nonclinical studies. convert such threats into opportunities by promptly At the same time, in terms of R&D organization responding to changes in the treatment algorithm, management, we try to cultivate an environment proactively utilizing AI technology, and leading where researchers can seek innovative treatment evolution in cancer treatments. with potential to be a game changer and move first Owa We recognize that we have an opportunity without fear of failure. In the oncology area which and the responsibility to position Lenvima® as a changes rapidly over time, it is tough to recover first-line therapy and standard of care in a clinical quickly once you lose the initiative and the core setting. We believe that the combination therapy of of the treatment algorithm is occupied by other Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® has the potential to be companies. one of the most commonly used chemotherapies for Iike Many governments around the world are a wider variety of cancers. From the precise analysis implementing policies to reduce healthcare of cancer genome information in recent years, it has costs, and as a result, there is increasing been found that cancer will evolve in accordance pressure to lower drug prices, which is a threat with the environment where each patient is placed. to our business. High priced anticancer agents The anticancer agent administered to the patient is are appearing one after another on the market, so an important environmental factor, and treatment setting reasonable prices is a very important issue for with Lenvima® has the potential to control cancer us. We feel that drug prices should be determined evolution. I think that being able to formulate a based on the fundamental value that they provide to therapeutic strategy by directing cancer evolution patients. We are striving to create drugs that bring with Lenvima® and conversely utilizing it is the true value to patients, but at the same time, we greatest strength for Eisai, who owns Lenvima®, and believe that the value of innovation should also be our partner. In fact, we already have next generation appropriately reflected in the price. treatment candidates that aim to cure cancer within In addition, the thinking behind the categorization the new treatment algorithm created by Lenvima®. of diseases and indications is rapidly changing in 53 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Accumulation of Experience and Knowledge from Global Business Activities Eisai has been developing global business activities on its own and accumulating experience and knowledge over many years. Eisai’s history of overseas operation dates back to the foundation of a local affiliate company in Southeast Asia in the late 1960s. From the 1980s to the early 1990s, Eisai created a three-hub R&D network in Japan, the U.S. and Europe. From the 1990s to the early 2010s, Eisai established pharmaceutical subsidiaries in major countries worldwide in line with the expansion of Alzheimer’s disease treatment Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet®. ■EMEA(Europe, Middle East, Africa, Russia and Oceania) ■Japan European Knowledge Centre (Hatfield, U.K.) Kawashima Industrial Kashima Business Tsukuba Research ●Drug discovery and ●Formulation and Complex (Gifu) Office (Ibaraki) Laboratories (Ibaraki) clinical research packaging ●Drug development research ●Drug development research ●Drug discovery and ●Formulation and packaging ●API(active pharmaceutical development research ingredients) production Fukushima Business Office (EA Pharma Co., Ltd.) ●Formulation and packaging Koishikawa Knowledge Center (Tokyo) ●Clinical research Benxi Plant (China) EA Pharma Co., Ltd. Research ●API production Institute (Kanagawa) (only herbal ●Drug discovery and medicine), development research Eisai China Inc. formulation (Beijing・Shanghai, China) and packaging EA Pharma Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) ●Clinical research ●Clinical research Eisai Clinical Research KAN Research Institute, Inc. Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Kobe) ●Clinical research ●Drug discovery research Bogor Factory (Indonesia) ●Formulation and packaging ■Asia and Latin America (Primarily South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, ASEAN, Central and South America) ■China Knowledge Centre, India (Vizag, India) Suzhou Factory (China) ●Drug development ●API production, formulation ●Formulation and packaging research and packaging 54 Number of Employees＊1 EMEA 1,022 (10%) Americas 1,240 Developing global business activities independently is always associated (12%) Consolidated Japan with difficulty. However, Eisai considers that it is important to overcome Number of Employees 4,914 Asia and any difficulty and accumulate experience and knowledge to leverage for Latin America 10,456 (47%) future growth. This is how Eisai has built a solid business foundation in 1,374 (13%) Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, and Asia. China ●Drug creation site ●Production site 1,906 (18%) ■Americas (North America) Number of Employees in the R&D Department＊1 Asia and China Latin America Approx. 10 Approx. 60 (Approx. 1%) (Approx. 3%) EMEA H3 Biomedicine Inc. Approx. 100 (Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.) (Approx. 6%) ●Drug discovery research Number of Employees in the R&D Department Japan Approx. 950 Americas Approx. 1,790 (Approx. 53%) Eisai Center for Genetics Guided Approx. 670 (Approx. 37%) Dementia Discovery (G2D2） (Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.)＊2 ●Drug discovery research Number of Employees in the Production Department＊1 EMEA Americas Approx. 90 Approx. 80 (Approx. 6%) (Approx. 6%) Japan Approx. 520 Asia and Number of (Approx. 36%) Baltimore Plant (U.S.) Latin America Employees in the ●Formulation Approx. 300 Production Department and packaging (only wafers) (Approx. 21%) Approx. 1,430 China Approx. 440 (Approx. 31%) Number of Medical Representatives＊1 EMEA Americas Approx. 350 Approx. 220 (Approx. 9%) (Approx. 5%) Number of Japan Asia and Approx. 1,600 Medical Latin America Representatives (Approx. 40%) Approx. 760 (Approx. 19%) Approx. 4,030 Morphotek, Inc. Eisai Inc. (Exton, Pennsylvania, U.S.) (Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, U.S.) China ●Drug discovery and ●Clinical research Approx. 1,100 (Approx. 27%) development research ●API production (only products under development) ＊1 T he numbers of employees shown above is as of the end of March 2018. The numbers include staff dispatched to Eisai Co., Ltd. from other group companies, and excludes the employees of Eisai Co., Ltd. who are on loan to other group companies. The number of medical representatives includes those whom are heads of organizations. ＊2 G2D2 is scheduled to commence operation in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Once G2D2 commences operation, the current Andover innovative Medicines Institute will be closed down. 55 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Intellectual Capital Global Business Activities Drug Creation Activities Creating innovation utilizing researchers’ strong sense of mission as well as accumulated experience and knowledge Akiko Nakahama (Left) Kappei Tsukahara (Right) Corporate Officer Senior Group Officer Head of Medicine Development Center Head of hhc Data Creation Center hhc Data Creation Center Head of Tsukuba Research Laboratories Strengths Weaknesses 1. Researchers’ strong sense of mission to contribute to patients 1. L  imited R&D expenditure compared 2. A ccumulation of experience and knowledge in drug creation activities for with big pharma companies overseas dementia (initiated in 1983) and oncology (initiated in 1987), as well as using natural products (research initiated in 1966) 3. E xperience and knowledge of developing drug creation activities globally 4. G lobal strategic partnerships that enable increased probability of success and accelerated development with optimization of development and commercialization expenses Opportunities Threats 1. E  xpansion of the market accompanied by world population aging and an 1. S  uccessful development of epochincrease in the middle-income class making competitor products 2. E xpansion in drug creation opportunities in line with the improvement of 2. P  rogress on breakthrough medical scientific and diagnostic technologies technologies 3. Increase in drug creation seeds as a result of strengthened cooperation among industry, government and academia Q: G iven that Eisai continues to develop in-house products one after the other, what do you think are Eisai’s strengths in drug creation activities ? A: Tsukahara The biggest strength is our evaluated the medicinal effects researchers’ sense of mission to fulfill their of compounds using life responsibilities to contribute to patients through prolongation as an index. This the creation of new drugs. Eisai’s researchers took a lot of time but we are enter the company with substantial empathy for our confident that we have found the best compounds human health care (hhc) philosophy of giving our first for patients. Swiftly delivering new drugs to patients thoughts to patients and their families. All employees requires the development activities to progress receive socialization training in which they spend at as efficiently and quickly as possible. However, it least 1% of their working time with patients. They learn means nothing if you hurry too much and fail halfway. the anxieties and frustrations about treatment from We capture the essence and never give up. The patients and apply this to their research activities. tenaciousness comes from a sense of mission, which In the development of anticancer agent Lenvima®, is Eisai’s strength. for example, we selected compounds by placing importance on the outcome, namely the extent to Nakahama In the area of dementia, our researchers which the administration of the drug would help have an extremely strong sense of mission to create prolong a patient’s life, not just the rate of tumor new drugs to contribute to patients. The U.S. FDA shrinkage. In an experimental animal model, we has not approved any new drug for the treatment 56 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix of dementia since 2003. In that context, great hopes have been placed on Eisai for the creation of new dementia drugs as the company that created Alzheimer’s disease treatment Aricept®. Numerous researchers who have learned the most advanced technologies about dementia in their academic studies join the company. Furthermore, Eisai has over 35 years of experience and knowledge of drug creation activities for dementia. Under this environment, our pipeline in the area of dementia has enhanced. The creation of new dementia drugs is Eisai’s earnest wish and we want to make it come true as early as possible. Tsukahara Drug creation research on natural products, from which other companies are withdrawing, has been consistently underway October 30, 2017 at Eisai since 1966. Natural products include Acceptance of application documents at CFDA (China Food and Drug Administration) reception center compounds with structures exceeding human knowledge. There are many examples that natural is the New Drug Application (NDA) of Lenvima® products trigger drug development based on their for hepatocellular carcinoma in China, which was unique activities. A representative result from natural successfully filed on October 30, 2017. I think this product research in Eisai is the anticancer agent is a historic case of success in the pharmaceutical Halaven®. Halaven® was optimized as a medicine industry for two reasons. First, the application used based on halichondrin B found in a marine sponge global Phase Ⅲ study results without conducting Halichondria okadai. It is said to be the most a local clinical study in China. Second, the NDA in complicated structure in the world among industrially China was filed nearly simultaneously with those produced drugs. The organic synthesis technology in Japan, the U.S. and Europe (the application in and capability to develop drugs from natural products Japan was filed on June 23, 2017, and those in the which created Halaven® are Eisai’s core technologies. U.S. and Europe were filed on July 24, 2017). For the employees of the R&D division, nothing Obtaining new drug approval for an imported drug would be more frustrating than being unable to create in China requires data from more than 100 Chinese a new drug for a long time. After launching Aricept® patients per arm. In other countries, the regulatory and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet®, we were unable authority’s approval for the commencement of a to create new drugs for more than 10 years until the clinical trial can usually be obtained in one to three launch of Halaven® in 2010. During that time, we months. However, it takes nearly one year in China. unfortunately gave up developing some new drug This makes it very difficult to enroll a predetermined candidates and became frustrated by being unable to number of Chinese patients in a global study. fulfill our responsibilities to contribute to patients. Our Therefore, clinical studies for applications in China researchers used that frustrating experience to are usually conducted separately from global studies. make even more strenuous efforts. This led to the However, China has nearly half of the global number successful development and creation of new drugs of hepatocellular carcinoma patients, everyone and the current improvement of our pipeline. involved in this project at Eisai gathered their knowledge and tried to obtain data for applications in Nakahama Our knowledge from our experience China from the global Phase Ⅲstudy, based on the with globally undertaking drug creation activities strong will to deliver Lenvima® to patients in China as for many years is another big advantage of Eisai. As soon as possible. As a result, we successfully enrolled Eisai globally conducts all of its discovery research, 213 of 954 patients in China in the global Phase Ⅲ development research and clinical research, we have study. seen many successful cases. The most recent one On October 10, 2017, the Chinese authorities enacted a change in regulations, which allowed ●Launch year for main products developed in-house the NDA of an imported drug to be filed based on the results of a global study, even without filing an 1997 1999 Period of frustration lasting 2010 2012 2015 application for the exemption of the Clinical Trial over 10 years Application (CTA). Eisai capitalized on the change and became the first manufacturer to achieve an NDA Aricept® Halaven® Lenvima® after the change in regulations. Conventionally, an Pariet ® Fycompa® examination period of nearly 16 months is required for an application for CTA exemption, which is expected to be shortened by the change in regulations. 57 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 From my perspective, the success of the simultaneous applications in Japan, the U.S., Europe and China is attributable to the Eisai employees’ dedicated sense of mission to contribute to patients and to Eisai’s experience and knowledge from global activities in drug creation over many years. Q: What are Eisai’s weaknesses in its drug creation activities? What kind of strategy are you developing to overcome these weaknesses? A: Nakahama Eisai considers the creation of new activities, the Eisai Scientific Advisory Board (ESAB), drugs to be the most important innovation and consisting of world-renowned scientific advisors, aggressively puts 20% or more of its consolidated has played a large role in selecting priority projects revenue into R&D. However, we have limited R&D since 2007. ESAB meetings are held regularly and expenditure in comparison with big pharma attended by the CEO and members of the leadership companies overseas. To overcome this weakness, concerned with drug creation. This enables ongoing it is imperative for Eisai to have strategies to enhance discussions regarding subjects such as project the productivity and efficiency of its drug creation reviews or the validity of research plans, backed up by activities. the very latest scientific insight. A: Tsukahara First, Eisai is thoroughly selecting and Nakahama The second strategy to overcome concentrating on priority projects. In April 2016, weaknesses is utilizing the partnership model. we started the medium-term business plan ‘EWAY Joint development with partners who have diverse 2025’, in which we chose neurology and oncology experience and know-how is a very effective way as the strategic areas of focus that have high unmet to increase the probability of success of new drug needs and would allow us to utilize our accumulation development and accelerate it. Also, partnerships of knowledge and know-how. We have concentrated greatly contribute to the dispersion of risk in R&D and R&D resources in those area intensively. In fiscal investment efficiency. In the consolidated income 2017, we put 85% of the direct R&D expenditure statement for fiscal 2017, our R&D expenditure is into these two areas. The business groups for these 139.6 billion yen (ratio to revenue: 23.3%), which two areas centralize functions such as discovery/ does not include 18.9 billion yen, the amount development, clinical, commercial and strategy/ of partners’ share of costs. R&D expenditure planning, and are organized so as to ensure that inclusive of partners’ share of costs is 158.5 billion important decisions are made quickly. Chaired by the yen (ratio to revenue: 26.4%). The utilization of CEO, the Corporate Milestone Committee is organized partnerships has streamlined our R&D expenditure, and the priority of optimal pipelines is decided on a which can now be invested in candidates for nextcompany-wide basis, which transcends the borders generation flagship drug candidates. Under these of discipline. conditions we can greatly expect a virtuous cycle for With an aim to enhance the quality of drug creation the creation of innovation. ●Direct R&D expenditure by area (fiscal 2017 results) ●Annual amount of partners’ share of costs in R&D expenditure ■ Neurology (billion yen) ■ Oncology 15% ■ Other 18.8 18.9 46% 40% FY2016 FY2017 Next few years 58 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Q: H ow will you train and develop researchers? A: Tsukahara In addition to the “Socialization with leadership, decision making and coordination through Patients” Program, our laboratories in the world advancing the project while managing the members. organize research meetings annually to stimulate Researchers covering a field other than discovery the exchange of knowledge among researchers. The also participate in the projects when they are still new, Tsukuba Research Laboratories has an annual meeting representing the specialized field respectively. In this where nearly 100 presentations are made. Participants way they develop their skills and experience. include researchers from around the world who are not We also encourage the exchange of human from the Tsukuba Research Laboratories. This leads resources with an aim to allow researchers to to the extensive exchange of knowledge and human leverage their experience and skills and work resources. actively from a wide perspective. For example, it is In Japan, discovery researchers are allowed to set not unusual that discovery researchers are transferred up the project to create drugs within a few years to a clinical development organization or a medical after entering Eisai and can subsequently proceed division. Some return to the discovery research the project as leaders. As a project advances organizations and apply their experience in the clinical in stage, researchers covering pharmacokinetics, development or medical divisions, creating diverse analytical research and many other fields join the career paths. project. A leader develops his/her capability including Q: What are your thoughts on opportunities and threats in drug creation activities? A: Tsukahara In addition to the aging of the world’s medical technologies brought about by the population, the middle-income class is expected development of artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet to grow in emerging countries and developing of Things (IoT) and other digital technologies can also countries. This will lead to the continued expansion pose threats. Changing these threats to opportunities of the pharmaceutical market. Also, we will have requires us to foresee the healthcare environment more drug creation opportunities by stimulating years later and develop drug creation projects by improvements of scientific and diagnostic technologies having the future on our side. Therefore, we try to and collaboration with domestic and international develop human resources that will become capable of venture companies, academia, and public agencies identifying new business opportunities. including the Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED). One threat is the successful development of epochmaking competitor products in respective areas. In the last few years, immune checkpoint inhibitors were launched in the oncology field and an innovative new drug against hepatitis C was launched in the liver disease field. These epoch-making products could change the current treatment algorithm in a way that was unimaginable just a few years ago. Threats are not limited to new drugs. Advances in regenerative medicine, gene therapy and innovative Selection and Concentration and the Utilization of Partnerships to Facilitate the Pursuit of Productivity and Efficiency in our R&D According to a study＊ published by Tufts University drugs, our spending has started to increase gradually in the U.S., the total cost required to globally develop since fiscal 2015. a single drug was estimated at around $2.6 billion ＊Journal of Health Economics 47 (2016) 20-33 (approximately ¥290 billion) during the period from ●R&D expenditure per approval in Eisai  2000 to 2010 and has increased at a phenomenal (Moving average for five years, including indication rate over the last decade. This is further proof that expansions, additional formulations, etc.) developing pharmaceuticals is becoming increasingly Unit (Billions of yen) difficult every year. 40 Eisai puts creation of new drugs right at the heart of innovation and actively invests around 20% of 30 consolidated revenue into R&D. Since fiscal 2009, Eisai has been selecting and focusing on priority projects 20 36 and making the most of proactive partnerships to 26 21 23 improve R&D productivity and efficiency, preventing 10 20 18 17 16 18 a rise in R&D expenditure per approval. Amid 0 accelerating development of next-generation flagship 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 59 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Examples of the Development of New Technologies and Utilization of AI at Eisai AI-based, ultrahigh-speed 3D image analysis system using technology for making tissues transparent The utilization of AI technologies is a large matter differences in the refraction indexes of different of interest for the pharmaceutical industry. Eisai is substances in the tissue. Automatically photographing proactively committed to the application of AI for the transparent tissues on a three-dimensional basis and creation of drugs. For example, we cooperated with performing AI-based analysis of that large amount the University of Tokyo and other institutions on a of image data would make it possible to identify notation project. We are developing technology to changes that are difficult to see by the human eye analyze states of diseases and effects of dosing by with a high-speed and energy-saving image diagnosis. gaining support from AMED and combining the image These technologies are expected to contribute to technology of Big Data Analytics and Deep Learning, the elucidation of the microenvironment of the brain at which AI excels, with other technologies for making and tumor, on which we are focusing, as well as tissue specimens transparent. application to the evaluation of drug effects and Essentially, tissues in the human body are opaque. streamlining of pathological examination in safety However, methods for making tissues transparent studies, among others. are being developed through the minimization of Example of tissues made transparent Tissues in a mouse’s colon Normal tissue Abnormal site The images show the large-intestinal mucosa in a cross-sectional manner. The cell nuclei are indicated in blue and the vascular endothelium is indicated in red. The orderly structure (sequence of mucosal epithelial cells), which is usually observed in normal tissues, is disordered at the abnormal site, demonstrating the occurrence of abnormal proliferation. Ethical and Transparent Drug Creation Activities Eisai carries out pharmaceutical R&D while maintaining a high sense of ethics based on the hhc corporate philosophy, complying with the spirit of the Declaration of Helsinki, various regulations in each country, international standards including ICH-GCP (standards for undertaking clinical trials of drugs), as well as with all relevant regulations, standards and human rights. ＊For detailed information, please access the following page on our website. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/research/discovery/index.html Protection and Reinforcement of Intellectual Property The legal protection and effective utilization of products and technologies we develop are essential for the sustained growth and advancement of Eisai, and for Eisai to continue to provide a stable supply of pharmaceuticals to patients. Therefore, we pursue a number of strategic intellectual property activities and strategies related to our product portfolio and product creation operations. ＊For detailed information, please access the following page on our website. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/research/ip/index.html ＊For the number of patent applications, please refer to the ESG Index on page 90. 60 Manufactured Capital Global Business Activities Production Activities Stable supply of products ensured through collaboration between in-house plants at 10 sites Strengths Weaknesses 1. Owns plants at 10 sites in major regions worldwide 1. L  ack of an in-house production 2. T rack record of supplying Eisai’s products to more than 70 countries facility for antibody drugs 3. D evelops product improvement activities to contribute to patients on a global scale under the hhc philosophy Opportunities Threats 1. Increase in the supply volume of products and the number of regions through 1. C  oncern about raw material strategic collaboration with partners procurement for long-listed drugs 2. Increase in the number of new products that require advanced manufacturing with declining revenue technological capabilities Global activities through collaboration among 10 sites Expansion of opportunities with strategic partnerships Eisai owns plants at 10 sites in major regions Eisai has effectively advanced strategic partnerships worldwide, including Japan, the U.S., China, Europe, with other companies, and year after year has and India, and has established a system in which increased its supply volume as well as the number of products are swiftly and constantly supplied to each regions where it supplies its products as a result of market through highly cooperative partnerships. the emergence of products that Eisai is contracted to Fulfilling a complex logistics function, each plant produce as well as through the expansion of revenue leverages its strengths and is operated as part of an channels due to joint marketing. In addition, because integrated system on a global scale, supplying Eisai’s of the increase in new products developed inproducts to more than 70 countries worldwide. In house by Eisai that require complex synthesis addition, by having an in-house manufacturing function, technology, there are many cases in which there is cooperation is strong with related organizations in the a focus on the importance of originality and ingenuity value chain, such as R&D and marketing, and the in commercial manufacturing. On the whole, there ability to address the actualization of patient needs is a rising trend toward a renewed focus on the in line with demand in each market is a unique manufacturing function in order to smoothly operate strength of Eisai. business as a pharmaceutical company. On the other hand, regarding manufacturing However, regarding long-listed drugs with low capability of antibody drugs that have attracted profitability and declining revenue, raw material attention in recent years, Eisai has only the capability manufacturers continue to withdraw from the market to manufacture drug substances, and thus has to and there is concern that stable supply will be depend on an outsourcing contractor. difficult. This issue is shared among research-driven companies and Eisai continues to explore options for the future. ●List of the functions of each plant and major manufactured items Plant APIs Formulation Packaging Major manufactured items Country Kashima ○ Halaven®, Lenvima®, Fycompa® Kawashima Japan ○ ○ Lenvima®, Fycompa® Fukushima (EA Pharma) ○ ○ Elental® Suzhou ○ ○ Methycobal® China Benxi ○ ＊1 ○ ○ Transfer factor Bogor Indonesia ○ ○ Pariet® Vizag India ○ ○ ○ Warfarin , diethylcarbamazine ® Hatfield U.K. ○ ○ Halaven®, Lenvima®, Fycompa® Baltimore ○＊2 ○ Gliadel® U.S. Exton ○＊3 (Only products under development) ＊1 Only herbal medicine ＊2 Only wafers ＊3 O  nly culture 61 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Human Capital Global Business Activities Marketing Activities Leveraging experience and knowledge accumulated over many years as well as partnerships, Eisai develops its marketing activities globally to promptly maximize its contributions to patients Strengths Weaknesses 1. Accumulation and sharing of experience and knowledge 1. H alfway through the growth of new in-house products to from global marketing activities replace Aricept® and Pariet® 2. L everaging partnerships that enable the prompt expansion of contributions to patients 3. P resence of multiple products developed in-house Opportunities Threats 1. E  xpansion of the market in emerging and developing 1. Increasing pressure to lower drug prices as governments countries accompanying economic growth and aging promote policies to reduce healthcare costs 2. M  arket entry of breakthrough competing products 2016 Global Ranking of Pharmaceutical Sales of Manufacturers: Ranked 31st ( 5th among Japanese pharmaceutical companies) ＊ Source: NEW Pharma Future No.7 June to July 2017 Strength No. 1 : Accumulation and sharing of experience and knowledge from global marketing activities Eisai’s greatest strength in marketing activities is the experience and knowledge to leverage for future accumulation and sharing of experience and knowledge growth. This is how Eisai has built a solid business from its global marketing activities over many years. foundation in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China and Asia. Eisai’s history of overseas operation dates back to The accumulated experience and knowledge of the foundation of a local affiliate company in Southeast Eisai are shared on a global scale beyond the regional Asia in the late 1960s. From the 1990s to the early framework. For example, the experience and knowledge 2010s, Eisai established pharmaceutical subsidiaries in on disease awareness campaigns accumulated major countries worldwide, including the U.S., Europe through the launch of Aricept® is shared globally. After and China, in line with the expansion of Alzheimer's the expiration of exclusivity for Aricept®, revenue disease treatment Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor has declined in Japan, the U.S. and Europe, but Pariet®. The basic structure of Eisai’s marketing activities double-digit growth has been achieved in China is independent marketing or co-promotion with and Asia in fiscal 2017 by enhancing disease potent partners, placing emphasis on booking its awareness campaigns utilizing shared experience own revenue. Eisai has never commissioned all of the and knowledge. In addition, the marketing method for marketing activities for in-house developed products peripheral neuropathy treatment Methycobal® which was to other companies in major countries. As the system launched in the 1970s in Japan, has been succeeded and commercial practices related to pharmaceuticals in China. As a result, Methycobal ® is the best-selling vary by country, global marketing activities that the product, accounting for 33% of revenue for the China company develops on its own are always associated pharmaceutical business. Eisai believes this success with difficulty. However, Eisai considers that it is story was achieved through the sharing of experience important to overcome any difficulty and accumulate and knowledge from its own global marketing activities. ●Revenue trend of Aricept in China/Asia ●Revenue trend of Methycobal in China ® ® (Billion yen) China (Billion yen) 20 Asia 18.7 20 18.7 18.8 18.0 17.3 15.5 15.9 15 14.1 7.5 15 13.8 12.0 5.6 6.2 4.7 10 3.8 10 9.0 8.1 7.5 6.9 7.2 1.3 1.6 2.2 6.0 10.0 9.8 11.2 5 8.1 9.4 5 5.7 5.6 5.9 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 62 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Strength No. 2 : L  everaging partnerships that enable prompt expansion of contributions to patients As there are many patients in the world longing for and commercializing Lenvima® as monotherapy and treatment for their conditions, contributions to patients in combination with anti-PD-1 antibody Keytruda® need to be expanded promptly following the launch (generic name: pembrolizumab) developed by U.S. of a new drug. In addition, it is important to quickly Merck. With this collaboration, the contribution to maximize contributions to patients from a business patients through Lenvima® can be promptly maximized perspective since there is an expiration of the patent in multiple cancer types, and revenue will significantly term covering a drug. Eisai’s independent marketing is exceed an Eisai sole development/promotion case. an effective method to accumulate a lot of experience In neurology area, Eisai is and knowledge, but it sometimes takes time to collaborating with Biogen Inc. expand contributions to patients. Therefore, Eisai on the joint development and considers co-promotion with potent partners to be marketing of next-generation a highly effective method to expand contributions Alzheimer’s disease treatments. A number of to patients. preparations are required in the medical environment In March 2018, Eisai and Merck and social environment in order to smoothly launch & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. and deliver next-generation Alzheimer’s disease (“U.S. Merck”) reached a strategic treatments, which are currently under development. collaboration agreement in the field Eisai considers collaboration with Biogen Inc. is of oncology for Lenvima®, an antisignificant for preparation of these environments. cancer agent developed by Eisai. Based on this agreement, the companies are jointly developing Strength No. 3 : P  resence of multiple products developed in-house Eisai’s three growth drivers, anticancer agents ●Revenue trend of three products developed in-house Lenvima® and Halaven®, and antiepileptic agent Fycompa®, are developed in-house. The products (Billion yen) 150 successfully developed by the employees of Eisai’s Lenvima® R&D division after overcoming many challenges 123.0 are marketed passionately by the employees in the Halaven® (eribulin mesylate) Injection marketing division. In addition, as these products do not require payment such as royalties, the profit 100 Fycompa® ® ratio of the products developed in-house by Eisai 86.8 58.5 is higher than those of in-license products, thereby 69.1 contributing considerably to performance. 32.2 59.2 In the 2000s, Aricept® and Pariet®, both developed 11.5 21.5 in-house, supported Eisai’s growth. Cultivating new 50 40.0 43.0 in-house products to replace Aricept® and Pariet® 31.1 0.4 39.9 37.3 has become Eisai’s key issue. 23.2 35.3 40.2 Through joint development and commercialization 22.6 28.9 21.5 14.7 of Lenvima® with U.S. Merck, revenue for Lenvima® 0 2.2 16.0 0.5 2.2 4.3 7.6 10.3 is expected to greatly exceed a sole promotion FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 results results results results results results results results forecast case, with the potential to exceed the peak sales of Aricept® (322.8 billion yen in fiscal 2009). In addition, considering the expected benefits. The presence of Eisai estimates that the potential of next-generation multiple products developed in-house is one of Eisai’s Alzheimer’s disease treatments under development, strengths and Eisai will further focus on the growth of including BACE inhibitor elenbecestat (in-house) are these products. very likely to exceed the peak revenue of Aricept®, Developing marketing activities on a global scale while identifying opportunities and threats In emerging and developing countries, expansion of products. the pharmaceutical market is expected to continue Opportunities and threats vary among markets, accompanying economic growth and aging. On the and identifying them is important. Eisai utilizes its other hand, pressure to lower drug prices is currently accumulated experience and knowledge as well as mounting in line with the promotion of policies to reduce partnerships to accurately identify opportunities and expenditure on drugs in many countries including Japan. threats in each market, and develops its marketing In addition, market entry of breakthrough competing activities on a global scale in order to promptly maximize products may result in reduced revenue of Eisai’s contributions to patients in each country. 63 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Corporate Governance System Management oversight functions and business execution functions have been clearly separated since 2004, in pursuit of a system that emphasizes independence and neutrality. Eisai’s Corporate Governance System Eisai has pursued the best corporate governance practices and has remained committed to the improvement of governance. ●Adopted the Company with a Nomination Committees, etc., System in 2004 and clearly separated management oversight functions from business execution functions. ●Since 2004, more than half of Eisai’s directors are outside directors. ●Since 2005, the chair of the Board of Directors has been chosen from among the outside directors. The Representative Corporate Officer and CEO is the only director serving concurrently as a Corporate Officer. ●The members of the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee comprise outside directors only. The majority of the members of the Audit Committee are outside directors. ●Each chair of the above committees is an outside director. ●The internal control system and its operation have been improved mainly to ensure the credibility of financial reporting. General Meeting of Shareholders Outside Directors Meeting Board of Directors (11 members: 7 outside, 4 inside) Chair: Outside Director Broad delegation of the Board of Directors Management oversight Nomination Compensation Audit by Committee Audit Committee Appropriate reporting (5 members: 3 outside, 2 inside; Committee Committee evaluation, etc. power of decision-making (3 members: (3 members: (7 members: all outside) Chair: outside director) all outside) all outside) over the execution Monitoring/verification and proposal Management Audit Board of Directors Secretariat of business Department Report Business Execution Division Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Corporate Officer Executive Committee Responsible for Accounting Accounting Internal Control Corporate Officers Auditor Audit Corporate Internal Internal Individual divisions / Subsidiaries inside and outside Japan Audit Department Audit Development and operation of the internal control system Compensation Board of Directors Nomination Committee Audit Committee Outside Directors Meeting Committee Number of meetings held 10 times 7 times 12 times 9 times 6 times in fiscal 2017 Attendance in fiscal 2017 100％ 100％ 100％ 100％ 100％ 64 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Features of Eisai’s Corporate Governance ❶Clear Separation of Management Oversight Functions and Business Execution Functions ●Types of Board of Directors in Japan The core aspect of Eisai’s corporate governance system is the clear separation of management oversight 2% of companies in Japan adopt a Companies with functions and business execution functions through a Nomination Committee, etc. System which maximum benefit is obtained from Eisai’s Company with Audit Company with a Nomination status as a Company with a Nomination Committee, and Supervisory Committee, etc., System etc., System. Eisai has established that the Chair Committee 2%(71 companies) of the Board of Directors be an outside director 25%（891 companies） and that the CEO is the only director serving concurrently as a corporate officer. Company with Board of The Board of Directors is able to devote its attention Corporate Auditors 73%(2,632 companies) to management by entrusting a large portion of decision-making authority to corporate officers. This Subject: 3,594 Tokyo Stock Exchange-listed companies (Aggregated data as of July 1, 2018) enables corporate officers to increase the speed Source: W hite Paper of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors 2018 and flexibility of business execution, to enhance the by ProNed Inc. dynamics of management and to establish, develop and operate the internal controls within the scope of their responsibilities to secure autonomy. ●Attributes of the Chair of the Board in Japan The corporate officers fulfill their accountability by 1% of the Board of Directors in Japan is chaired by making reports to the Board of Directors on the status outside directors of the execution of their assigned activities. Based on the reports from the corporate officers, the Board Outside director 1% Others 1% keeps up-to-date on matters such as the progress of Chairman 15% our business plans, the current status and issues of our operations, labor management, occupational health President 83% and safety, efforts for environmental protection and the status of efforts to meet compliance requirements such as the prevention of corrupt acts and bribery. In this Subject: 3,594 Tokyo Stock Exchange-listed companies (Aggregated data as of July 1, 2018) way, the Board supervises the execution of operations. Source: W hite Paper of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors 2018 Under this system, along with checking the status of by ProNed Inc. execution of operations by the corporate officers, the Board also inspects the status of internal controls such as business execution and decision-making processes from the perspective of shareholders and society. ❷Ensuring the Independence and Neutrality of Outside Directors ●Composition of Eisai’s outside directors in fiscal 2018 Eisai’s Nomination Committee, which is composed exclusively of outside directors, strictly applies the Executive management 3 “Requirements for the Independence and Neutrality of Outside Directors”, for the selection of candidates Certified public accountant 1 for outside directors. Every year, the Nomination Attorney 1 Committee examines each outside director candidate, Academic, woman 1 whether for new election or re-election, to determine (Specialization: Audits/internal control) whether he or she meets the Requirements and to Academic, foreign nationality 1 (Specialization: Corporate governance) assess his or her independence and neutrality. Eisai emphasizes constructing the Board of Directors with directors who have diverse expertise, ●Attributes of the 35 Eisai outside directors who were in office experience and backgrounds. The expectation is that since year 2000 Others 2 by doing so, the Board of Directors will contribute to the enhancement of corporate value by providing oversight Finance/ accountant 5 of the efficiency, appropriateness, etc., of management Executive from the viewpoint of a wide range of stakeholders. Lawyer management 13 Each year, the Nomination Committee conducts a /attorney 7 simulation of the configuration of the Board of Directors Academic 8 from a medium-and long-term perspective of 3 to 5 years, and determines the requirements for candidates in light of the diversity of specialized knowledge and Of the 35 outside directors, 3 are women experience, etc., of each director. and 6 are of foreign nationality 65 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 ❸Initiatives for Enhancement of Corporate Governance Centered on Outside Directors At Eisai, the seven outside directors, who account for the majority of the members of the Board of Directors, supports the effectiveness of the corporate governance system. Eisai is continuously carrying out initiatives to enhance corporate governance centered on outside directors. Outside Directors Meeting Eisai holds Outside Directors Meetings with only outside directors in attendance, on a regular basis. These meetings provide outside directors with opportunities to interact, communicate at a deeper level, and make discussions at gatherings of the Board of Directors, etc., more dynamic. The Meeting was held 6 times in fiscal 2017, and the members worked on the following themes. a) Information sharing and discussion regarding the succession plan In fiscal 2016, the Outside Directors Meeting discussed how to share information related to the CEO succession plan, etc., and preparation for unexpected events. As a result, in April 2017, rules regarding the consideration of a succession plan were established, with the unanimous support of the directors. Since fiscal 2017, in accordance with these rules, the Outside Directors Meeting has been held regularly, with all directors, including inside directors in attendance, to share information and discuss succession plans proposed by the Representative Corporate Officer and CEO. b) Implementing the corporate governance evaluation The effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ management oversight function is evaluated each year at the Outside Directors Meeting. If any issues related to the operation of the Board of Directors, etc., are identified, a request and proposal for improvement is submitted to the Board of Directors and business execution divisions. In the corporate governance evaluation, the status of the activities of the Board of Directors, etc., is inspected and evaluated based on the corporate governance evaluation carried out in the previous fiscal year, issues are identified for the next fiscal year, and improvement measures are shown, thereby driving the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle. Beginning in fiscal 2017, Eisai have had an external organization review our processes and results once every 3 years to ensure the appropriateness and suitability of continued, regular corporate governance evaluations. c) Dialogue with outside directors and investors (Engagement) Up to this point as well, Eisai has conducted meetings between institutional investors and outside directors in Japan and overseas. In fiscal 2017, outside directors visited multiple institutional investors, providing explanations of the Company’s efforts regarding governance and the activities of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors related to the Policy for Protection of the Company’s Corporate Value and Common Interests of Shareholders, and taking the opportunity to exchange opinions. We have confirmed that outside directors will continue the dialogue with investors in order to deepen mutual understanding of efforts toward corporate governance aimed at increasing corporate value. Corporate Governance Evaluation Since fiscal 2015, the Board of Directors discusses the effectiveness of its management supervision function and reviews the Corporate Governance Guideline and rules relating to internal control, as Board of Directors evaluation. The results of the self-review are summarized as the corporate governance review. Beginning in fiscal 2017, we have had an external organization review our processes and results once every 3 years to ensure the appropriateness and suitability of continued, regular corporate governance evaluations. ①Board of Directors evaluation •The Board of Directors evaluation is based on self-evaluations by individual directors. The scope of evaluation includes the Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and the Outside Directors Meeting. •The results of the Board of Directors evaluation are compiled and summarized by the Outside Directors Meeting to ensure the objectivity of the evaluation, and the evaluation is determined in a meeting of the Board of Directors. ②Self-review of the Corporate Governance Guidelines •The Corporate Governance Guidelines are a code of conduct for corporate governance established by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors conducts reviews each year to evaluate whether the execution of duties by the Board of Directors, etc., is maintained and operated in accordance with these Guidelines. 66 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ③Self-review of the Internal Control Regulations •The Internal Control Regulations were established by the Board of Directors to stipulate matters required for the execution of duties by the Audit Committee and to ensure suitable performance of duties by corporate officers. The Board conducts reviews each year to evaluate whether systems are established and evaluated in accordance with both sets of rules. With regard to the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Internal Control Regulations, no evidence was found of operation, etc., that deviates from the rules, and it was confirmed that the directors and corporate officers, etc., are executing their duties appropriately to improve corporate governance. In regard to the Board of Directors evaluation, we confirmed and evaluated the status of response in fiscal 2017 based on the Board of Directors evaluation for fiscal 2016, and identified issues, etc., for the next fiscal year. Some of the major issues identified are listed below. Major issues identified for fiscal 2018 relating to the roles, proceedings etc. of the Board of Directors •In regard to the selection of proposals, initiatives based on directors’ duty of care, such as setting timely themes and carrying out discussions on risks to the Company while trying to predict such risks, will continue to be sought. •Amid the global changes in discussions on how risks should be understood, it was confirmed that the content should go beyond the reporting of risks, such as compliance items, and there was a need for the recognition of corporate officers on and reports of strategic risks (including both positive and negative risks) relating to business activities being sought, as qualitative improvement of the content reported to the Board of Directors. •The need for directors to take the initiative to make risks visible by proactively seeking reports on risks from operational divisions and to make habitual sound risk management by proceeding with things after correctly understanding the risks, was confirmed. ＊For the further information regarding the corporate governance review, please refer to pages 48-55 of the Notice of Convocation of the 106th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders:▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/pdf/einv106_all.pdf Performance-based Compensation for Directors and Corporate Officers The directors are in a position of being independent from the execution of business duties and their compensation is set at a fixed amount without incorporating performance-based compensation to ensure that the content of compensation is appropriate for enabling the adequate deployment of management monitoring functions, which are the duty of directors. The compensation paid to the corporate officers is made up of base compensation, bonuses and stockbased compensation at a ratio of 6:3:1, and performance-based compensation accounts for 40% of total compensation. Compensation Paid to Corporate Officers Fixed compensation Performance-based compensation Base compensation Bonuses Stock-based compensation (60%) (30%) (10%) The stock-based compensation system, a mediumto long-term incentive plan, was introduced in fiscal 2013. Stock-based compensation involves providing corporate officers with stocks on an annual basis through a trust in accordance with the degree of achievement of company-wide performance objectives. The system motivates the corporate officers to share profit awareness based on the same perspective as that of the shareholders, and to remain aware of performance and stock prices in executing their duties from a mediumto long-term perspective. The amounts of bonuses provided to corporate officers are calculated in accordance with the degree of the achievement of company-wide performance goal and the corporate officers’ performance objectives. The degree of the achievement of company-wide performance objectives is determined after reviewing consolidated revenue, consolidated operating profit, consolidated profit for the year (attributable to the parent company) and consolidated ROE. ＊For details of the stock-based compensation system for corporate officers please refer to pages 60-65 of the Notice of Convocation of the 106th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders:▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/pdf/einv106_all.pdf ＊Please refer to the corporate website for details about Eisai’s Corporate Governance Guideline, the Rules of the Board of Directors, the Rules of the Nomination, Audit and Compensation committees, the Corporate Governance Report and Policy for Protection of Company’s Corporate Value and Common interests of Shareholders:▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/governance/index.html 67 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Interview with Outside Director Eisai’s Corporate Governance System Tamaki Kakizaki The Tokyo Stock Exchange currently suggests that listed companies appoint two or more outside directors. Even so, some people ask how outside directors really serve without being given sufficient information. Regarding this point, Eisai stands out in terms of the quality and quantity of information provided in advance to outside directors concerning the Board of Directors. This approach gives me a sense of Eisai’s deep enthusiasm for enhancing governance. Additionally, the Audit Committee to which I belong has set up the Management Audit Department as a dedicated secretariat independent from corporate officers. Separating the Audit Committee’s secretariat from the Corporate Internal Audit Department that handles internal auditing creates a structure that assures the independence of information obtained by the Audit Committee. Furthermore, by actually performing Q: What was the background that led to your practical business as an Audit Committee member, I feel appointment as an outside director at Eisai? that Eisai really understands the “essence” of corporate A: As an expert in internal control, I had participated governance. in the Corporate Group Internal Control study workshop together with the former manager of Eisai’s Q: You convene the Outside Directors Meeting Management Audit Department. I was later approached consisting entirely of outside directors. and sounded out by Eisai about my interest in serving How does this meeting contribute to Eisai’s as a director, which took me by complete surprise. corporate governance? I decided to accept the position, thinking that all my research to date on corporate law (the Companies A: At the Outside Directors Meeting we can engage Act) and internal control could be put to good use in in extremely free-flowing and frank discussion. The practical business. Following an informal agreement, establishment of this forum helps to deepen mutual the Chair of the Nomination Committee visited me at understanding among outside directors and foster a the university where I teach and I received a formal climate conducive to candid discussions. This meeting appointment request. Eisai CEO Naito then came is an excellent facet of Eisai’s governance. to greet me after my provisional appointment at the We also broach such sensitive topics as succession Nomination Committee. Eisai places utmost importance plans and evaluations of the effectiveness of corporate on the independence and neutrality of outside directors governance at the Outside Directors Meeting. For and this is why their appointment of directors centers this reason, I feel that creating this forum for forthright on outside directors. I hear that this type of appointment opinion exchanges is highly effective in undertaking process is very uncommon. governance. Q: F rom your perspective as an expert in Q: H ow is the Board of Directors changing by corporate law (the Companies Act) and internal implementing evaluations of the effectiveness control, what are the outstanding features of of the Board of Directors? Eisai’s governance? A: Although this is my personal opinion, I feel that the A: Eisai has adopted the Company with a Nomination Board of Directors’ self-directed initiatives toward risk Committee, etc., System, the organizational structure management are improving. under the Companies Act that is the most difficult to With the business environment evolving dramatically implement. On top of this, an outside director chairs at a breathtaking pace, I believe discussions by the the Board of Directors and the majority of directors Board of Directors still need to catch up in terms of how are outside directors. This made me think that the we should respond quickly to the emergence of risk excellence of this system as a “governance framework” accompanying these changes. The Board of Directors was unsurpassed. That said, upon actually joining the is now able to undertake discussions focused on what Board and participating firsthand in the governance types of specific risk are we facing, what measures are system as an outside director, I soon realized that being adopted by corporate officers to counter this risk, attention should be focused on implementation and and whether these measures are adequate. This type of substance rather than on the framework or shape of the risk-focused management leads to the implementation governance system. of quick corrective measures. 68 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Q: What circumstances spurred changes in Q: E  isai’s Board of Directors clearly has the discussions by the Board of Directors? attributes of diversity that include a woman and a foreign-national director. What types of A: I made a proposal that led to these changes. advantages does diversity bring to corporate Previous business execution reports by corporate governance? officers tended to emphasize the reporting of results. However, from our standpoint of supervising A: Thanks to the inclusion of diverse viewpoints, management, we really wanted to know what corporate the content of discussion is more enriched and this officers were thinking when dealing with existing risk. has a highly positive impact on the effectiveness of The details of the business execution report have thus governance. now shifted from being results oriented to being riskI think my opinions are rarely based on my awareness focused. Outside directors cite various points, ask of being a woman. At the same time, however, I think questions and make suggestions concerning these I’m unconsciously strengthening my monitoring of types of reports. I feel that discussions by the Board such areas as promoting active roles for women and of Directors now cut straight to the point from the very harassment countermeasures. In this way, I believe that start, making discussion far more effective. acting with an awareness of values that should be taken for granted as a woman will probably bring out the benefits of diversity even at the Board of Directors. On a personal note, I have elderly family members suffering from cancer and dementia, so I naturally think from the standpoint of patients and their families at the Board of Directors. I believe this type of perspective is probably also one example of the meaningfulness of having outside directors. Q: C ould you explain Eisai’s compliance and structure for preventing misconduct? A: Eisai has established a structure for quickly putting an end to any misconduct at an early stage. Shortly Q: What is your impression of Eisai’s employees after assuming the duties of outside director, I had some and the permeation of the corporate personal concerns in the internal reporting system of philosophy? an overseas subsidiary. I recommended enhancing the system and in response action was taken immediately. A: I’ve visited research laboratories, production plants In this way, we undertake discussions at the Board of and sales offices and participated in interchange Directors about implementing “a risk-based approach meetings with young employees on numerous to management” that through high sensitivity to risk occasions. One point that strikes me when listening automatically takes steps if something seems amiss. to their presentations is their high sense of purpose. I Also, Eisai holds compliance training twice a year that get the impression that even if their respective points includes the participation of all outside directors as well of view and perspectives differ, these employees as the CEO and other officers. At this workshop-style have integrated a mission connected to the corporate training, we verify specific case examples and receive philosophy into their own jobs and take action on their advice from experts while engaging in passionate own. Seeing this has filled me with encouragement and discussions. Officers from overseas also participate energy. I have high hopes they will accomplish great in this training. Moreover, I believe this training also things in the future. provides a valuable opportunity for sharing risk sensitivity as a pharmaceutical company entrusted with the lives Interviewer: Yasukazu Kanamori, Executive Director, of patients. This is a solidly built system. Investor Relations To eliminate risk in a broad sense, we must also think about training for frontline employees that obtains a high level of understanding from them. 69 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Board of Directors and Executive Officers Seven of the eleven Directors are Outside Directors ＊For matters relating to Outside Directors, please see the Corporate Governance Report. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/governance/cgregulations/index.html ＊Number of the Company’s shares held by each Director is as of March 31,2018. ＊The attendance of Board of Directors and Committees in this section indicates the records of fiscal 2017. Directors (As of July 1, 2018 ) Haruo Naito Noboru Naoe Director, Representative Corporate Member of the Audit Committee Officer and CEO I nsi de In s id e Date of birth (age) Date of birth (age) February 8, 1956 (62 years of age) December 27, 1947 (70 years of age) No. of years served as a director 4 No. of years served as a director 35 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 634,076 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 19,117 Reasons for nomination as a director candidate Reasons for nomination as a director candidate The Nomination Committee has determined that the candidate has The Company’s corporate governance guidelines call for selecting inside appropriately explained resolution items and report items in meetings of directors who have abundant experience working within the Company to the Board of Directors as the only director with concurrent duties as a serve as members of the Audit Committee. On this point, the candidate has corporate officer and has sufficiently fulfilled the role of overseeing important gained long experience and knowledge regarding sales-related business, management decisions and the execution of business, and has nominated which is the work that is closest to Eisai’s principal stakeholders: patients the candidate to continue from the previous year serving as a director. and consumers. Furthermore, the candidate has obtained considerable The Company’s corporate governance guidelines call for the Representative knowledge and experience related to management through his service as a Corporate Officer and CEO to serve concurrently as a director. corporate officer. In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse Attendance Board of Directors 100% (10/10) members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s (1) practical accomplishments as a director and member of the Audit Committee, (2) qualifications and capabilities as a director, (3) in-house experience, and (4) number of years in office, etc. Having determined that the candidate is capable of objectively executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as a director of the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the candidate to continue from the previous year serving as a director. Attendance Board of Directors 100% (10/10) Audit Committee 100% (12/12) Yasuhiko Katoh Hirokazu Kanai Chair of the Board of Directors, Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Independent I nsi de Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age) January 28, 1960 (58 years of age) Date of birth (age) No. of years served as a director 2 May 19, 1947 (71 years of age) No. of years served as a director 2 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 490 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 10,305 Senior Advisor, Mitsui E&S Holdings Co., Ltd. Reasons for nomination as a director candidate The Company’s corporate governance guidelines call for selecting inside Reasons for nomination as a director candidate directors who have abundant experience working within the Company to As can be seen from his personal history, the candidate has abundant serve as members of the Audit Committee. On this point, the candidate experience as a manager of a global corporation in the shipping and has obtained considerable knowledge and experience through his work marine industries, etc., as well as a high level of insight into management related to accounting and finance, as well as his service as a group officer. and excellent supervisory ability. In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s (1) practical accomplishments as a director and member of the Audit (1) practical accomplishments as a director, member of the Nomination Committee, (2) qualifications and capabilities as a director, (3) in-house Committee, and chair of the Compensation Committee, (2) qualifications experience, and (4) number of years in office, etc. Having determined that and capabilities as a director, (3) career background, and (4) number of the candidate is capable of objectively executing his management oversight years in office, etc. Having determined that the candidate is capable of duties and is suitable as a director of the Company, the Nomination objectively executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as Committee has nominated the candidate to continue from the previous a director of the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the year serving as a director. candidate to continue from the previous year serving as an outside director. Attendance Board of Directors 100% (10/10) Attendance Board of Directors 100% (10/10) Audit Committee 100% (12/12) Nomination Committee 100% (7/7) Compensation Committee 100% (9/9) Independent Committee of Outside Directors 100% (5/5) 70 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Directors (As of July 1, 2018 ) Tamaki Kakizaki Daiken Tsunoda Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Independent Chair of the Independent Committee Committee of Outside Directors of Outside Directors Date of birth (age) Date of birth (age) January 16, 1961 (57 years of age) January 29, 1967 (51 years of age) No. of years served as a director 2 No. of years served as a director 2 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 163 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 0 Professor, School of Law, Meiji University Partner, Nakamura, Tsunoda & Matsumoto (Law Firm) Reasons for nomination as a director candidate Reasons for nomination as a director candidate As can be seen from her personal history, the candidate is a specialist in As can be seen from his personal history, the candidate is a legal expert internal controls and internal audits. Although she has not been directly and a specialist in the Companies Act. Although he has not been directly involved with management, she has experience serving as an outside involved with management, he has served as an outside director for other director for another company, and a high level of insight into management companies and has rich experience related to corporate law, giving him a and excellent supervisory ability thanks to an extensive research high level of insight into management and excellent supervisory ability. background that gives her a deep knowledge of corporate internal controls, In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse corporate governance, and risk management. members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the (1) practical accomplishments as a director and member of the Audit Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s Committee, (2) qualifications and capabilities as a director, (3) career (1) practical accomplishments as a director and member of the Audit background, and (4) number of years in office, etc. Having determined that Committee, (2) qualifications and capabilities as a director, (3) career the candidate is capable of objectively executing his management oversight background, and (4) number of years in office, etc. Having determined that duties and is suitable as a director of the Company, the Nomination the candidate is capable of objectively executing her management oversight Committee has nominated the candidate to continue from the previous year duties and is suitable as a director of the Company, the Nomination serving as a director. Committee has nominated the candidate to continue from the previous year serving as a director. Attendance Board of Directors 100% (10/10) Audit Committee 100% (12/12) Attendance Board of Directors 100% (10/10) Independent Committee of Outside Directors 100% (5/5) Audit Committee 100% (12/12) Independent Committee of Outside Directors 100% (5/5) Bruce Aronson Yutaka Tsuchiya Chair of the Compensation Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee, I nsi de Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age) June 29, 1952 (66 years of age) Date of birth (age) No. of years served as a director 1 May 14, 1952 (66 years of age) No. of years served as a director 1 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 0 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 34,938 Visiting Lecturer, Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Law Reasons for nomination as a director candidate (Business Law Department) The Company aims to ensure optimum decision-making and the fairness of management through a clear separation of functions between Reasons for nomination as a director candidate management oversight and business execution, with the Board of As can be seen from his personal history, the candidate is a practicing Directors dedicated to management oversight. To achieve these aims, the attorney and a legal academic with a focus on international comparative Company appoints inside directors, who are familiar with the Company, to corporate governance. Although he has not been directly involved with provide support for the practical management of the Board of Directors. management, he has a high level of insight into management and excellent In this regard, the candidate has experience working abroad and has also supervisory ability thanks to an extensive research background that gives obtained considerable knowledge and experience through his work as him deep knowledge of corporate internal controls, corporate governance well as service as a corporate officer. His work experience encompasses and risk management. areas including research and development, pharmaceutical and other In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse quality assurance, public relations, government relations, healthcare members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the policy, China operations, and Japanese OTC product-related work. Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s (1) In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse practical accomplishments as a director and member of the Nomination members with a variety of specialized knowledge and experience, etc., the Committee and the Compensation Committee, (2) qualifications and Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s (1) capabilities as a director, (3) career background, and (4) number of years in practical accomplishments as a director, (2) qualifications and capabilities office, etc. Having determined that the candidate is capable of objectively as a director, (3) in-house experience, and (4) number of years in office, executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as a director of etc. Having determined that the candidate is capable of objectively the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the candidate to executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as a director of continue from the previous year serving as an outside director. the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the candidate to continue from the previous year serving as a director. Attendance Board of Directors 100% (8/8) Nomination Committee 100% (6/6) Attendance Board of Directors 100% (8/8) Compensation Committee 100% (7/7) Independent Committee of Outside Directors 100% (5/5) ＊Because Bruce Aronson was newly appointed to be a director and assumed his post ＊Because Yutaka Tsuchiya was newly appointed to be a director and assumed his post at the 105th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 21, 2017, his at the 105th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 21, 2017, his attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors and committee meetings indicates attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors indicates attendance at meetings attendance at meetings beginning on June 21, 2017. beginning on June 21, 2017. 71 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Directors (As of July 1, 2018 ) Shuzo Kaihori Ryuichi Murata Chair of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Outside Directors Date of birth (age) Date of birth (age) January 31, 1948 (70 years of age) April 12, 1948 (70 years of age) No. of years served as a director 0 No. of years served as a director 0 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 0 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 0 Advisor, Yokogawa Electric Corporation Senior Advisor, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited Reasons for nomination as a director candidate Reasons for nomination as a director candidate As can be seen from his personal history, the candidate has abundant As can be seen from his personal history, the candidate has abundant experience as the top executive of a global corporation in industrial experience as a top executive of companies in the finance and leasing instruments and process control equipment businesses. He has a high industries. He possesses a high level of insight into management and has level of insight into management as well as excellent supervisory ability. excellent supervisory ability. In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse members with a variety of specialized knowledge and career background, members with a variety of specialized knowledge and career background, etc., the Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the etc., the Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s (1) qualifications and capabilities as a director and (2) candidate’s (1) qualifications and capabilities as a director and (2) career background. Having determined that the candidate is capable of career background. Having determined that the candidate is capable of objectively executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as objectively executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as a director of the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the a director of the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the candidate as a new outside director. candidate as a new outside director. ＊Shuzo Kaihori is newly appointed as a Director in fiscal 2018. ＊Ryuichi Murata is newly appointed as a Director in fiscal 2018. Hideyo Uchiyama Chair of the Audit Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age) March 30, 1953 (65 years of age) No. of years served as a director 0 No. of the Company’s shares held by the candidate 0 Executive Advisor, ASAHI Tax Corporation Reasons for nomination as a director candidate As can be seen from his personal history, the candidate has expertise as a certified public accountant. At the same time, he has abundant experience as the head of an audit firm and top executive of a global consulting firm. He also has a high level of insight into management as well as excellent supervisory ability. In addition to constructing a Board of Directors composed of diverse members with a variety of specialized knowledge and career background, etc., the Nomination Committee has considered such factors as the candidate’s (1) qualifications and capabilities as a director and (2) career background. Having determined that the candidate is capable of objectively executing his management oversight duties and is suitable as a director of the Company, the Nomination Committee has nominated the candidate as a new outside director. ＊Hideyo Uchiyama is newly appointed as a Director in fiscal 2018. 72 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Corporate Officers (As of August 1, 2018 ) Haruo Naito Teiji Kimura Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Vice President Chief Discovery Officer, Neurology Business Group Hideki Hayashi Hidenori Yabune Representative Corporate Officer, Japan Business and CIO Vice President Japan Business Head of Regional Cooperation Shuto-Ken Headquarters, Eisai hhc Solutions Headquarters Japan Chief Information Officer China and Asia Coordination, Eisai Japan Yasushi Okada Hiroyuki Kato Representative Corporate Officer, CTO, Industry Affairs and Vice President China Business Chief Quality Officer Chief Talent Officer, Industry Affairs, China Business, General Global Product Emergency Management Affairs, Environmental and Safety Affairs, Data Integrity Kenta Takahashi Alexander Scott Senior Vice President Vice President General Counsel Chief Strategy Officer, Neurology Business Group Intellectual Property Head of Strategy Department, Neurology Business Group Data Administration Officer, Neurology Business Group Edward Stewart Geary Masayuki Miyajima Senior Vice President Vice President Chief Medical Officer President, Eisai Japan Head of Corporate Medical Affairs Headquarters Global Safety Board Chair Gary Hendler Tatsuyuki Yasuno Senior Vice President Vice President President, EMEA Region Global Partnership Development Chairman & CEO, Eisai Europe Ltd. Terushige Iike Yanhui Feng Senior Vice President Vice President President, Oncology Business Group President, Eisai China Holdings Ltd. President, Eisai China Inc. Ryohei Yanagi Yoshiteru Kato Senior Vice President Vice President Chief Financial Officer President, Eisai Demand Chain Systems Chief IR Officer Ivan Cheung Mitsuaki Tanaka Senior Vice President Vice President President, Neurology Business Group Chief Planning Officer President, Americas Region Head of Corporate Planning Department Chairman & CEO, Eisai Inc. Takashi Owa Shohei Kanazawa Vice President Vice President Chief Medicine Creation Officer, Oncology Business Group Japan Business Strategy Chief Discovery Officer, Oncology Business Group President, Consumer hhc Business Division API Solutions Yasunobu Kai Masatomi Akana Vice President Vice President Chief Planning Officer, Oncology Business Group Corporate Affairs Head of Planning Department, Oncology Business Group Global Value & Access Data Administration Officer, Oncology Business Group Lynn Kramer Hiroyuki Kobayashi Vice President Vice President Chief Clinical Officer, Neurology Business Group Chief Medical Officer Japan and Asia Chief Medical Officer, Neurology Business Group Head of Medical Headquarters Sayoko Sasaki Akiko Nakahama Vice President Vice President President, Asia and Latin America Region Head of Medicine Development Center hhc Data Creation Center Junichi Asatani Kazumasa Nagayama Vice President Vice President Chief Compliance Officer Chief Strategy Officer Internal Control Head of Corporate Strategy Department Shaji Procida Vice President President & COO, Eisai Inc. Oncology Commercial, Americas 73 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Compliance & Risk Management Eisai defines compliance as “the observance of the highest legal and ethical standards” and positions it at the core of management activities. To contain risks within acceptable levels, Eisai is carrying out various initiatives including establishing, developing and implementing internal control systems as well as conducting internal audits. Eisai designates a Chief Compliance Officer, who is also the corporate officer responsible for internal control, to supervise the Corporate Compliance and Risk Management Department and promote compliance and risk management. Eisai defines compliance as “the observance of the highest legal and ethical standards” and positions it at the core of management activities. Eisai implements its compliance program that consists of delivering the message of top management, developing the Code of Conduct and other relevant rules, conducting educational activities, establishing a training system as well as providing consultation services. In risk management, Eisai defines risk as “the threat or probability that an action or event will adversely affect the achievement of corporate and/or organizational objectives.” To contain risks within acceptable levels, Eisai is carrying out various initiatives including establishing, developing and implementing internal control systems as well as conducting internal audits. 1. Compliance Promotion In 1999, Eisai was prosecuted by the U.S. Department of Justice for its involvement in a cartel for synthesized bulk vitamin E products, and agreed to a plea bargain. In addition, for this incident, penalties and fees were also imposed by countries outside the U.S., and Eisai had to respond to multiple civil actions filed against it as well. From the lessons of this vitamin lawsuit, Eisai started to promote full-fledged compliance in fiscal 2000. The Corporate Compliance and Risk Management Department works with compliance departments and compliance personnel in each region to promote compliance globally. These compliance promotion activities periodically undergo objective reviews by a Compliance Committee that consists of external experts such as lawyers and consultants from Japan and overseas. ❶E  stablishment of Code of Conduct and Other Relevant Rules and Conducting Educational Activities to Foster Compliance Awareness Eisai believes that fostering compliance awareness in all officers and employees is essential for ensuring that each officer and employee always engages in corporate activities based on compliance. For this reason, Eisai created a Compliance Handbook, which outlines Eisai Network Companies (ENW) Charter of Business Conduct and the Code of Conduct. The handbook is available in 17 languages, and is distributed to all officers and employees in all Eisai network companies. In addition, all officers and employees declare every year The Compliance Handbook that they understand and abide by the contents of the Compliance Handbook. Furthermore, a “Code of Conduct for Business Partners,” which covers the behavior expected from all business partners and employees, was issued and rolled out globally in fiscal 2017. Eisai has also created a Compliance Card that contains the contact information for the Compliance Counter and shared it with all officers and employees in Eisai network companies in Japan. Eisai continues to conduct training through various means such as compliance workshops (including those designed for directors and officers), e-learning and distribution of case studies in order to foster compliance awareness. ❷ Use of Compliance Counter The Compliance Counter serves as a point of contact for the whistle-blowing system in Eisai network companies and is set up globally across Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, Asia and other countries. It is a consultation/contact resource that all officers and employees can use to seek assistance with interpreting legal provisions and finding answers to questions about whether their own conduct, or the conduct of their supervisors or co-workers conforms to the compliance policies. The Compliance Counter handles many topics, including harassment, personal information protection, copyright, ethics guidelines for public servants and industry self-regulation. In Japan, the Compliance Counter also provides resources such as whistle-blowing system operated by outside lawyers and contact desk operated by the external counselors, creating an environment that serves to further promote compliance. 74 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix At Eisai, receiving as much consultation/contact ●The number of Compliance Counter inquiries in Japan as possible is believed to be important in addition 2,000 to making the internal whistle-blowing system function effectively, and the Compliance Counter 1,500 receives not only whistle-blowing reports but also all sorts of consultations regarding compliance. From 1,000 fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2015, the number of inquiries increased primarily due to changes in the operation 500 of the Fair Competition Code, which are the industry rules directly related to MR activities, as well as the 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 introduction of transparency guidelines. However, since the rules and operations were thoroughly enforced afterward, the number of inquiries has settled down. ❸ Compliance Awareness Survey A compliance awareness survey was conducted at all Eisai network companies in fiscal 2017. This survey analyzed and assessed compliance awareness for each ENW employee as well as the status of activities, and the results were utilized to further enhance the compliance program. ❹ Prevention of Bribery and Corruption Based on its strong determination to undertake honest business activities, Eisai formulated the Corporate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy for Eisai network companies in January 2012. This policy provides common rules for Eisai network companies when dealing with external parties in line with efforts to carry out business activities without bribery or corruption across the Eisai network companies. As one concrete initiative, Eisai introduced the ABAC due diligence system that uses a webbased system for receiving responses to a globally common questionnaire on the possibility of bribery and corruption that is sent out beforehand to companies with which we plan to newly undertake transactions. By using this system, we have already achieved certain results in reducing risk associated with new business transactions. Based on the thinking of a risk-based approach, this system is being operated in the Americas region that includes Mexico, Brazil and Canada; the EMEA region that encompasses Russia and Eastern Europe; China, India, and countries in Asia. Additionally, Eisai is moving ahead with the advanced introduction of a system at overseas subsidiaries that detects signs of potential fraud by monitoring accounting and financial data. 2. Risk Management Promotion In accordance with the Companies Act, Eisai’s Board of Directors formulated the “Rules for Preparing Necessary Systems for Ensuring the Suitability in the Performance of Duties by Corporate Officers.” These rules stipulate that all corporate officers should identify the risks in their duties and establish, develop and implement internal control systems. In response, the corporate officer responsible for internal control established the “ENW Internal Control Policy”, and is establishing, developing and implementing internal control systems covering all Eisai network companies as well as implementing initiatives for containing risk within acceptable levels. ❶P  romoting a Risk Management System and Response to Risks Of all the risks identified by corporate officers and ●Evaluating Degree of Risk Impact department managers through Control Self-Assessment Large Large Priority level (CSA), critical risks are uniformly managed by the Risk of risk response Management Committee. Also, Eisai quickly detects its High Degree own potential risks through continuous monitoring for of impact external corporate misconduct and prevents these risks Medium Medium from occurring by promptly responding to risks. The identified risks are evaluated in terms of the Low degree of impact based on the magnitude of the inherent risk (degree of impact and probability of Small occurrence) and the level of internal control (status of Low Medium High High establishment, development and implementation). The Probability of occurrence priority level of risk response is then determined and risk management is efficiently undertaken. 75 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 ●Eisai’s Risk Management System <Board of Directors> ・Formulates rules for preparing necessary systems for ensuring the suitability in the performance of duties by corporate officers ・Monitors the status of internal control systems established, developed and implementated by corporate officers Report Corporate officer in charge of internal control Corporate Internal Risk Management Committee Corporate Compliance Audit Department (chaired by corporate officer in charge of internal control) Office and Risk Management ・Integrated management of risk-related information Department Implement internal audit ・Recommendations and support for corporate officers (Provision of internal, external risk-related information) Corporate officers Corporate officers Corporate officers Establish, develop and implement internal control Department in charge of risk management Provide support for the establishment, (*CSA: Control Self-Assessment) Persons in charge of promoting CSA development and implementation of internal control (promote CSA) Divisions, departments ❷ CSA (Control Self-Assessment) One of the tools used by Eisai for risk management is CSA. CSA is conducted yearly for all department managers in Eisai network companies to identify and evaluate risk in their own structure. Identified risks are dealt with through workshops and others. In addition, CSA ensures the effectiveness of risk management by identifying critical company-wide risk through interviews and reports and by following up on the risk response implementated by corporate officers. ❸ Internal Audit Activities based on International Standards Internal audits are voluntary audits that differ from the audits conducted by the Audit Committee and the accounting audits. The Corporate Internal Audit Department is established under the corporate officer in charge of internal control. The Corporate Internal Audit Department implements internal audits globally, while cooperating with internal audit departments in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China and Asia. These internal audits independently and objectively assess whether the execution of duties by corporate officers is being undertaken appropriately and efficiently. The results are reported to the Executive Committee and to the Audit Committee. To assure high-quality audits that conform to global standards, the Corporate Internal Audit Department undergoes an assessment every year by an external assessment committee composed of outside experts in accordance with the standards of The Institute of Internal Auditors (an international professional association for internal auditors based in the U.S.). ❹ Serious Risks and Measures Taken The following table outlines the major risks that could potentially have a serious impact on Eisai’s business activities and measures taken in response to those risks. The risks included in the table are just a selection of those deemed to be serious based on risk assessments. Risk Outline Measures Taken Potential impact on patients’ health or Eisai is working to strengthen pharmaceutical stable product supplies as well as on quality management systems in order to reliably Risks relating to business results associated with product produce and supply compliant products that product safety recalls, suspension of sales, etc., as a have been confirmed to be safe and effective and quality result of concerns regarding the safety or in accordance with “ICH Q10 Pharmaceutical quality of products due to raw materials, Quality System Guidelines.” manufacturing processes or other factors Eisai is obligated to scientifically evaluate Eisai has established a global pharmacovigilance Risks relating to and notify the regulatory authorities system and is working to ensure that its pharmaceutical regarding any adverse events or safety products are used in an appropriate manner. safety precautions associated with Eisai’s Activities are spearheaded by the Safety products. Executive Committee, which consists of safety management Potential impact on patients’ health due management supervisors from key areas, and (side effect to issues with safety monitoring activities the Global Safety Board, which consists of safety information, etc.) (pharmacovigilance) or provision of safety and medical evaluation supervisors for each information product. 76 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Risk Outline Measures Taken The Group conducts production/sales Eisai has deployed corporate officers at key activities for products around the world. locations including the U.S., Europe, China and However, there are risks such as legal Asia, and has built a system to immediately Risks related restrictions, socio-political uncertainty, ascertain and share important information, as to overseas and business environment uncertainty in well as enable a response. In addition, Eisai also its global business activities. In the event expands risk management activities globally, and operations the Group faces such risks, there is a together with promoting initiatives to lower risk in possibility that original projected earnings executing operations, responsible departments may not be achieved. are implementing response processes for when risks are actualized. Potential serious impact on Eisai’s Eisai examines and verifies the suitability of operations and/or results in the event of each outsourcing partner before outsourcing research, manufacturing or other selected operations. Eisai also conducts regular audits Risks relating to operations outsourced by the group to ensure that outsourcing partners are carrying outsourcing being suspended for any reason, or in the out operations in an appropriate manner. In event of any issues with research results addition, Eisai makes preparations including or manufactured output provided by development of a backup system for when risks outsourcing partners are actualized. Potential impact on Eisai’s Eisai has set out policies, including the ENW competitiveness and/or reputation and Confidential Information Security Policy, and Risks relating potential disadvantages for concerned continues to organize training seminars to ensure to information stakeholders in the event of a leak that confidential information is handled properly. management involving confidential technical or business Eisai has also put in place a personal information information, or personal information held protection system. by Eisai Potential for stakeholders to sustain Eisai is compliant with standards for unexpected losses and for significant loss evaluating, auditing and implementing internal of confidence in Eisai due to inaccurate controls in relation to financial reporting in Risks relating to financial reporting accordance with the Financial Instruments and financial Exchange Act and other applicable legislation. reporting Eisai has put in place effective internal control systems in relation to financial reporting and ensures that they are operated in an appropriate manner. The effect of foreign exchange fluctuations Considering the impact on business results, on the yen conversion of sales of Eisai is always monitoring financial markets and overseas consolidated subsidiaries as well foreign exchange fluctuations. as export and import transactions and Regarding financial assets, Eisai regularly Risks related to other foreign currency transactions may revises its obligations held, and aims for financial market also impact business results. optimization. In addition, regarding the impact conditions Furthermore, as Eisai holds stocks and of foreign exchange, based on the statuses of other marketable securities, a decline in the Group’s transactions and business activities, and currency the stock market could result in losses Eisai sets a base currency and utilizes currency movement on sales or devaluation of stocks and hedges as well as other derivatives in an effort to other securities. In addition, an increase reduce risk. in projected benefit obligations due to changes in the interest rate may have an impact on business results. Eisai’s plants may be closed or shut Through regular assessment of contract down due to technical problems, raw manufacturers and API suppliers, as well as material shortages, influenza and other maintenance of reasonable inventories of API pandemics, fire, earthquakes and other and products, etc., Eisai works to reduce risks Risks related to natural disasters. In such cases, the relating to the supply of products. Combined plant closure or supply of products may become difficult with making doubly sure of preparations for every and can significantly impact business kind of disaster, in order to bring about business shutdown results. continuity as well as early recovery/restart, Eisai has set a “Business Continuity Plan” for each department. Together with planning responses, Eisai also works to regularly review these plans to increase their effectiveness. Potential serious impact on the local Eisai has set out the ENW Environmental community and the environment in the Protection Policy and established a event of environmental contamination company-wide Environment and Safety Risks relating to stemming from one of Eisai’s facilities. Committee in order to discuss and make Potential serious impact on results due decisions regarding important matters relating to the environment to factors such as legal action (closure protecting the environment. Individual facilities of facilities, etc.), remedial environmental also establish their own management systems, measures or compensation for the local including obtaining ISO 14001, and carry out community their own environmental activities. Potential large-scale damage to plants, Together with making doubly sure of sales offices and other facilities and preparations for every kind of disaster, each Risks relating to potential impact on Eisai’s activities in division formulates a “Business Continuity Plan the event of a natural disaster such as an (BCP)” to ensure that business can continue or disasters, etc. earthquake or typhoon, or an accident be quickly restored/reinstated. In addition to such as a fire BCP measures, Eisai also carries out regular reviews to make plans more effective. 77 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Social and Relationship Capital Partnerships Aiming to Improve Business Efficiency and Productivity by Leveraging Partnerships Eisai believes that partnerships are an extremely effective means of improving business efficiency and productivity. While we engage in a diverse array of collaboration models, such partnerships can be broadly divided into “Partnerships aimed at creating innovation in therapeutic areas of focus”, “Partnerships aimed at building new business models” and “Partnerships aimed at expanding access to medicines.” Eisai will continue to make effective use of partnerships to promptly maximize contributions to patients. ＊ Details of the agreements below are as of the end of July 2018. Partnerships aimed at creating innovation in therapeutic areas of focus Neurology Area Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (U.S.) Corporation Purdue Pharma L.P. (U.S.) Corporation Change of licensing agreement for exclusive commercialization Agreement for global co-development and co-promotion of of the anti-obesity agent lorcaserin hydrochloride (generic the dual orexin receptor antagonist lemborexant name, name in the U.S. : BELVIQ®) that was originally Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd. (Japan) Corporation concluded in November 2013. Based on the change in the agreement, Eisai acquired all development and marketing License agreement for manufacturing and sales of the rights for BELVIQ® from Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. antiepileptic agent Zonegran® in Europe and Asia BIAL-Portela & Ca, S.A. (Portugal) Corporation Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (U.S.) Corporation License for marketing and co-promotion of the antiepileptic Exclusive license for the development and marketing of the agent Zebinix® in Europe anti-insomnia agent Lunesta® in Japan BioArctic AB (Sweden) Corporation Sysmex Corporation (Japan) Corporation Exclusive license agreement for worldwide research and Comprehensive non-exclusive collaboration agreement for development, manufacturing and sales of the anti-beta creating new diagnostics in the dementia area amyloid (Aβ) protofibril antibody BAN2401 for the treatment of University College London (UCL) (U.K.) Academia Alzheimer’s disease Agreement to form major drug discovery alliance to develop Biogen Inc. (U.S.) Corporation new therapeutics for neurological diseases 1. Joint development/joint sales promotion related to BACE (beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme) inhibitor elenbecestat, anti-Aβ protofibril antibody BAN2401 Oncology Area and anti-Aβ antibody aducanumab 2. Acquisition of option rights related to joint development/joint Epizyme, Inc. (U.S.) Corporation sales promotion of the anti-tau antibody (BIIB076) under Partnership in development and commercialization of the development by Biogen Inc. anticancer therapies targeting EZH2, including E7438 within 3. C o-promotion of Biogen’s multiple sclerosis treatments, Japan, as well as regarding the right of first negotiation for Avonex®, Tysabri®, and Tecfidera® in Japan to accounts that Biogen Inc. currently does not call upon, and also distribution licensing rights in Asia and booking sales for three products above and Plegridy® in Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. (U.S.) Corporation Asia (excluding China). Collaboration agreement for evaluating Halaven® in first-line JCR Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Japan) Corporation HER2-negative advanced breast cancer in combination with Agreement for collaborative research using JCR’s bloodHalozyme’s investigational new drug PEGPH20, a PEGylated brain-barrier (BBB) penetration technology J-Brain Cargo® to recombinant human hyaluronidase the discovery of new treatments HUYA Bioscience International, LLC (U.S.) Corporation Johns Hopkins University (U.S.) Academia Acquisition of exclusive license to develop and market the Collaboration agreement for neurological drug discovery oral histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor HBI-8000 in Japan, research South Korea, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Keio University (Japan) Academia Vietnam and Singapore Implementation of new joint research for the discovery and Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S.) Corporation development of new drugs targeting dementia Agreement for joint development and commercialization of Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd. (Japan) Corporation Eisai’s tyrosine kinase inhibitor, Lenvima®, as monotherapy License agreement for the commercialization of safinamide in and in combination with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., Japan and Asia, currently under clinical development in Japan U.S.A.’s KEYTRUDA® for multiple cancer types for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease Orion Corporation (Finland) Corporation Novartis AG (Switzerland) Corporation Comprehensive marketing agreement concerning Orion’s License agreement for worldwide development, manufacturing breast cancer drug Fareston® in China and sales of the antiepileptic agent Inovelon®/Banzel® PRISM Pharma Co., Ltd. (Japan) Corporation Orion Corporation (Finland) Corporation Joint research and development concerning CBP/β-catenin 1. Comprehensive marketing agreement concerning inhibitor E7386 and others Parkinson’s disease treatment Eldepryl® in China SymBio Pharmaceuticals Limited (Japan) Corporation 2. M arketing and distribution agreement concerning Parkinson’s 1. Exclusive license on joint development and marketing of the disease treatments Comtan® and Stalevo® in China anticancer agent Treakisym®/Symbenda® in Japan Pfizer Inc. (U.S.) Corporation 2. E  xclusive development and marketing licenses in Singapore Co-promotion of the pain treatment Lyrica® in Japan and South Korea 78 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Other Areas (gastrointestinal disease, and others) AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) Corporation Sato Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.,  Development, sales and co-promotion of the fully human antiSeren Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Japan) Corporation TNF-α monoclonal antibody Humira® in Japan, Taiwan and Agreement of Sato Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Eisai South Korea (EA Pharma Co., Ltd and AbbVie GK undertake to co-promote new oral antifungal agent (product name: co-promotion for indications in the area of gastrointestinal NAILIN® Capsules 100mg) containing the active ingredient disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and intestinal fosravuconazole L-lysine ethanolate which was discovered by Behçet’s disease)) Eisai, in Japan Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (Japan) Corporation Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd.,  Agreement for integrating (absorption type split) Eisai’s Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.(Japan) Corporation gastrointestinal disease treatment business with Ajinomoto Agreement to take over the marketing authorization and Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Establishment of EA Pharma Co., marketing activities for anti-rheumatic agent KOLBET® Tablets Ltd.) 25mg in Japan Almirall, S.A. (Spain)  Corporation University of Tsukuba (Japan) Academia License agreement concerning the development, Agreement for industry-academia joint research for the manufacturing and marketing of the gastrointestinal prokinetic development of new drugs for inflammatory bowel disease that agent Cidine® in China use biomarkers Minophagen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Japan)  Corporation Exclusive rights for the development and marketing of liver disease/allergic disease agents Stronger Neo-Minophagen C® and Glycyron® Tablets in Euro-Asian countries where the products have not yet been sold, as well as exclusive first negotiation rights for exclusive marketing rights in China and other Euro-Asian countries where the products are already sold Partnerships aimed at building new business models Grupo Biotoscana (Uruguay)  Corporation Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Japan)  Corporation Exclusive licensing agreement to seek regulatory approvals and Strategic alliance agreements including incremental transfer commercialize the anticancer agents Halaven® and Lenvima®, of all shares of Elmed Eisai Co., Ltd., co-operation in building as well as antiepileptic agents Fycompa® and Inovelon® in Latin Eisai’s Ecosystem, as well as collaboration on the active America pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business promoted primarily at Eisai’s Vizag Plant in India Partnerships aimed at expanding access to medicines Access Accelerated Global Partnership Macrofilaricide Drug Accelerator Global Partnership Participation in a multi-stakeholder global partnership to Participation in global partnership aimed at developing new advance access to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) drugs for filariasis (especially river blindness) prevention, treatment and care in low and lower-middle Medicines for Malaria Venture income countries (MMV) (Switzerland) Non-Profit Public-Private Partnership Broad Institute (U.S.) Research Institute Agreement for joint research for the development of new Joint research aimed at the development of new treatments for antimalarial drugs Chagas disease, malaria and tuberculosis, and development Sabin Vaccine Institute (U.S.) Research Institute of new antimalarial medicine based on the drug targets that the joint research team identified in 2016 Agreement for joint research for development of new vaccines for Chagas’ disease Colorado State University,  TB Alliance (U.S.) Not-for-profit R&D organization University of Chicago (U.S.) Academia Alliance to find faster-acting and affordable drug regimens to Joint research agreement to develop a potential new fight tuberculosis treatment for tuberculosis with the compound identified from Broad Institute’s chemical library Tuberculosis Drug Accelerator (TBDA) Global Partnership Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative Participation in global partnership aimed at creating innovative (DNDi ) (Switzerland) Not-for-profit R&D organization new drugs for tuberculosis 1. Collaboration and licensing agreement for new drug University of Kentucky (U.S.) Academia development for Chagas’ disease and eumycetoma Agreement for joint research aimed at developing new 2. P articipation in the Drug Discovery Booster Consortium antimalarial agent formed by DNDi with the aim of accelerating the World Health Organization (WHO) (Switzerland) UN Agency development of new drugs for leishmaniasis and Chagas Agreement for providing free of charge DEC disease (diethylcarbamazine) tablets, a treatment for lymphatic filariasis, Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz) (Brazil) Research Institute and participation in partnership for providing lymphatic filariasis Agreement for joint research and development of compounds diagnostic kits free of charge to endemic areas developed by Eisai for the treatment of malaria and NTDs World Intellectual Property Organization Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (WIPO) (Switzerland) UN Agency (GHIT Fund) (Japan) Non-Profit Public-Private Partnership Participation in consortium sponsored by WIPO for promoting Participation in public-private partnership aimed at bringing the development of new drugs for tropical diseases Japanese innovation to accelerate development of new medicines to cure infectious diseases in the developing world Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (U.K.) ,  University of Liverpool (U.K.) Academia 1. Agreement for joint research for creating Wolbachia inhibitors (new antifilarial agents) 2. A greement for joint research for developing antimalarial drugs 79 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Social and Relationship Capital Manufactured Capital Quality Assurance, Stable Supply, Safety Information Management for Products Fulfilling our responsibility as a pharmaceutical company Eisai’s General Policy on Product Quality “The quality of every single tablet, capsule and ampule that we produce is integral to the life of the patient.” Eisai carries out its activities with an awareness that every drug it manufactures is directly linked to patient’s lives. As long as there are people around the world in need of medicine, there exists a mission and a responsibility to continue to assure the stable supply of high-quality pharmaceutical products. In order to do so, Eisai consistently strives for high quality through the implementation of a robust management system that oversees all processes from drug substance and formulation research to production and distribution. Quality Assurance Activities Believing that quality must be assured until pharmaceutical products are delivered to and used by patients and consumers who need these products, Eisai implements quality control in the manufacturing phase in accordance with its globally unified Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards (international regulations for production and quality management), while placing emphasis on maintaining product quality in the distribution phase. Under this global quality assurance system, Eisai is carrying out quality assurance activities to supply pharmaceutical products that can be used Initiatives against Counterfeit Drugs by patients with a sense of security in every country As the globalization of the development and and region. The quality assurance departments within distribution of pharmaceutical products accelerates Eisai strive to supply products that generate customer remarkably, there have been reports of an increasing satisfaction by pursuing quality that satisfies both the risk of counterfeit drugs not only in developing and apparent and latent needs of patients and customers. emerging countries but also in developed countries. In addition to its regular quality-assurance activities, Eisai is implementing global product security activities Stable Supply to ensure that its products are reliably delivered to Eisai has formulated a business continuity plan patients. In collaboration with regulatory authorities, (BCP) to ensure stable supply in case of risks such other companies in the industry and industry groups, as natural disaster, accident or act of terrorism. Even Eisai is actively participating in monitoring and in the event of a large earthquake, we are committed establishing measures against counterfeit drugs and to resuming plant operations as soon as possible the illegal distribution of drugs. When an actual case and continuing the stable supply of products by is detected, Eisai responds quickly by undertaking consistently ensuring appropriate product inventory. investigations, taking various legal steps and assuring Additionally, we are undertaking initiatives for securing stable supplies, with these efforts led by the Product backup sites that enable alternate operations in times Security Execution Committee. of emergency, primarily for specific products with a high degree of urgency and importance. 80 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Safety Information Management Global Safety Information Management System for Pharmaceutical Products Eisai has established a global pharmacovigilance The value of pharmaceutical products can only system for products that is centered on the “Safety be fully deployed through proper usage upon Executive Committee” mainly composed of correctly understanding the risks and benefits. persons responsible for safety management in each Pharmacovigilance (pharmaceutical product safety major region, as well as the “Global Safety Board” monitoring) is defined by WHO as “the science mainly composed of persons responsible for safety and action relating to the detection, assessment, evaluations for each product. Under this system, Eisai understanding and prevention of adverse effects or has prescribed global standards for uniform product any other drug-related problem”. Pharmacovigilance safety profiles and is making responses to thoroughly is indispensable for properly evaluating the balance assure the proper usage of its products through between the risks and benefits of pharmaceutical discussions on issues concerning pharmaceutical products. safety that consider the latest information on Eisai works to ensure that its products are used healthcare and regulations in countries around the properly in countries around the world by providing world. updated product information to healthcare professionals and patients in a timely manner. Eisai hhc Hotline For updating, we continually collect and evaluate At Eisai Co., Ltd., the Eisai hhc Hotline (toll-free product safety information worldwide spanning the customer information service) is open 365 days initial stage of pharmaceutical product development a year. Its mission is to relieve any concerns that through to post launch. patients, customers and healthcare practitioners may have in the use of Eisai products, and provide correct information for their proper use. Inquiries or opinions are shared as valuable information within us, and utilized for development and improvement of products as well as provision of information or services in order to address the diverse potential needs of patients and healthcare providers. Initiatives for Reinforcing Data Integrity Data integrity refers to the completeness 〈The Outline of the New System〉 of data. For a research and development ■Appointing a Corporate Officer in charge of based pharmaceutical manufacturer like Data Integrity and Chief Quality Officer Eisai, securing the integrity of research With an aim to reinforce quality assurance over data, manufacturing data, and other data product quality, which is the foundation of the is extremely important. In recent years, pharmaceutical industry, a Chief Quality Officer has there have been various scandals involving been appointed, and the officer promotes initiatives data falsification and fabrication at other for enhancing data integrity under the support of companies. We have come to recognize the Corporate Officer in charge of Data Integrity. the importance of securing data integrity ■New Establishment of a Global Quality as well as initiatives to prevent fraud in Headquarters advance. Accordingly, we initiated a project In order to increase the independence of the in September 2017, and have worked to quality assurance division from the perspective of secure the integrity of important data mainly strengthening data integrity, Eisai has established at our research and development divisions, Global Quality Headquarters under the Chief Quality production divisions, and medical divisions. Officer. Global Quality Headquarters is centrally Firstly, we have identified over 3,000 responsible for global GMP management, including employees involved in handling important building a global quality system and auditing data, and are implementing training for all suppliers. of these employees. We completed the first training program in fiscal 2017. Furthermore, ■Appointment of a Data Integrity Committee a new system for reinforcing initiatives The structure of the previously mentioned project to secure data integrity was introduced in has been transitioned to a committee structure. The January 2018. committee is promoting initiatives to secure reliability and accountability of important data regarding product quality, research and development, postmarketing surveys and pharmacovigilance. 81 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Natural Capital Business with Consideration for the Global Environment Eisai conducts business operations seeking coexistence with the global environment. Based on the Eisai Network Companies (ENW) Environmental Protection Policy, all employees recognize the importance of environmental protection and incorporate an environmental perspective in working to solve social issues. In promoting business expansion into countries across the world, Eisai will fulfill its corporate social responsibility by focusing on reducing environmental impact at each stage of business. Developing a Management System for Protecting the Global Environment Eisai established the company-wide Environment and Safety Business locations that have acquired ISO14001 certification Committee as a decision-making body for deliberation of Kawashima Plant (Japan), Kashima Plant (Japan), EA important environmental protection issues. Moreover, Eisai Pharma (Fukushima Office, Research Institute, Head office) (Japan), Suzhou Plant (China) and Vizag Plant (India) develops its own management system in each of its offices in Serious problem(s) detected by external environmentan effort to facilitate its environmental activities. At our major related review agencies production bases in Japan and overseas, we engage in activities Fiscal 2017 0 that are based on the acquisition of ISO14001 so that we can Number of administrative measures and lawsuits check the validity of the environmental management system relating to the environment Fiscal 2017 0 through external reviews. In addition to observing environmentEnvironmental communication related laws, ordinances and agreements, we periodically Publication of environmental reports, organizing local conduct internal environmental audits by an organization meetings, administrative committee meetings and others specializing in internal auditing to identify and solve issues. Formation of a Low-Carbon Society: Aiming to Reduce CO2 Emissions of Eisai Group in Japan by 23% compared to Fiscal 2005 by Fiscal 2020 Eisai is promoting initiatives for the formation of a low●Eisai CO2 Emissions＊3 (CO2/t) carbon society to help solve the problem of climate 200,000 Overseas operation sites Eisai group in Japan change. Eisai is participating in the Commitment to a Low Carbon Society initiated by the Federation 153,948 160,730 163,784 145,239 of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Associations of 150,000 138,995 131,272 Japan, and the Eisai Group in Japan is implementing 123,135 120,271 115,514 115,485 relevant initiatives based on its own medium-term plan 100,000 for the reduction of CO2 emissions. More specifically, we plan to reduce domestic CO2 emissions by 23% compared to fiscal 2005 by fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2017, 50,000 our domestic CO2 emissions were reduced by 37.1%＊1 compared to fiscal 2005. Furthermore, revenue per CO2 emissions, one of the 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ecoefficiency indices, has been increasing. ＊3 Emissions from business activities at offices outside Japan and vehicles for In June 2018, Eisai submitted its commitment letter sales use are not included. •The data was revised due to recalculation. to Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)＊2, which •C O2 emissions from overseas operation sites are calculated based on the International Energy Agency’s “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2017 Edition)”. was accepted. ●Revenue / CO2 Emissions＊4 6.00 Domestic CO2 Emissions Reduction Target 23% reduction compared to fiscal 2005 by fiscal 2020 5.00 5.20 ➡ 4.00 4.56 4.67 Domestic CO2 Emissions Fiscal 2017 Result 3.95 3.66 37.1% reduction*1 compared to fiscal 2005 3.00 2.00 ＊1 W  here the carbon emission factor based on the use of electricity is assumed to be 0.385t-CO2/MWh as in the evaluation of the Eisai group target 1.00 ＊2 The SBTi helps companies determine a pathway for reducing their emissions in line with what is required to keep global temperature increase below 2 0 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures. The SBTi was FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 established in 2015 and is a collaboration between CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the UN Global Compact, the World Resources Institute ＊4 Consolidated revenue (million yen) / global CO2 emissions (CO2/t) (WRI) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Previous global CO2 emissions data was revised due to recalculation. 82 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Establishment of a Recycling-Oriented Society: Zero Emissions Have Been Achieved in Japan for Ten Consecutive Years Eisai is conducting waste disposal with three goals waste sent to landfill to the total waste of less than in mind: reduce the amount of waste generated, 1%, for ten consecutive years. increase the rate of recycling and decrease the ●Total Waste and Ratio of Amount of Waste Sent to Landfill in Japan amount of waste sent to landfill. We also sort waste （t） （％） for recycling and select the best waste disposal 10,000 Total waste 5 Ratio of the amount of waste sent to landfill to the total waste contractors possible in a timely manner. Furthermore, 9,000 8,259 we are actively trying to process recycling that has 8,000 7,410 4 value in the market and to reduce disposal costs. 7,000 6,769 6,555 6,280 In fiscal 2017, we have domestically attained “zero 6,000 3 emissions”, which indicates a ratio of the amount of 4,917 5,000 4,001 4,000 3,481 2 Waste Reduction Target in Japan 2,935 3,038 Continuation of zero emissions 3,000 0.79 (amount of waste sent to landfill / total waste < 1%) 2,000 0.46 0.45 0.50 0.50 1 0.28 0.43 0.34 ➡ 1,000 0.22 0.35 Fiscal 2017 Result Achieved for ten consecutive years 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017(FY) Handling the Risk of Water Shortage through the Efficient Use of Water Resources In recent years, the number of regions suffering from ●Global Water Consumption and Amount of Wastewater ＊5 severe water shortages due to climate change and (thousand ｍ ) 3 Water consumption other environmental changes has been increasing 4,500 Amount of wastewater worldwide and the importance of effective use of 4,000 water resources is rising year by year. To conserve 3,820 water resources, Eisai tries to secure the quality of 3,500 3,323 3,453 water discharged from its plants and laboratories. We 3,125 3,149 2,982 perform regular measurement and ensure that the 3,000 2,684 2,725 amount of pollutant emissions to domestic waters is 2,449 2,447 2,500 below the standard defined by the Water Pollution Control Law and the agreements on pollution 2,000 prevention. We are also committed to reducing water consumption and drainage and to facilitating the reuse 1,500 of water. As a result, our water consumption and 1,000 drainage from our facilities in Japan are decreasing in recent years. Also, the results of our internal research 500 indicate that the sites of Eisai’s plants and laboratories 0 are not situated in high-risk areas that would force 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) them to suspend operations due to water shortages ＊5 The data was revised due to recalculation. in the near future. Rated “B” in the CDP＊6 Climate Change Report 2017 and Ranked 3rd in WWF Japan’s Ranking of Corporations for Effective Efforts to Address Climate and Energy Issues (Pharmaceutical Industry) In 2017, the CDP evaluation system highly rated Eisai as “B”, which is equivalent to the “Management” level. In the Japanese health care sector, only two companies achieved “Leadership” level (A-), while three companies including Eisai achieved “Management” level (B). ＊6 A non-profit organization based in London, formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project. Requests information relating to climate change, water, and forests from companies with top ranking market capitalization in principal countries and discloses the information to the government and investors. The CDP evaluation system evaluates the status of implementation of a company’s environmental management activities on a scale of one to eight (A, Ato D and D-) on four different levels including leadership, management, recognition and information disclosure. In June 2018, the non-government organization World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan)＊7 announced its Ranking of Corporations for Effective Efforts to Address Climate and Energy Issues for the pharmaceutical industry, in which Eisai was ranked 3rd among Japanese pharmaceutical manufacturers. ＊7 WWF Japan is one of the world’s largest conservation non-government organizations, and has published its ranking of corporations for effective efforts to address climate and energy issues by industry since 2014. ＊For more detailed information, please refer to WWF Japan’s website. ▶ https://www.wwf.or.jp/activities/activity/3630.html (In Japanese only) ＊See the Environmental Report for more detailed information about our environmental activities ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/library/annual/index.html 83 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Initiatives for Achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Contributing to Global Compact For Sustainability of Society We believe it is necessary to realize our human health care (hhc) corporate philosophy, and implement corporate measures based on a long-term perspective under enhanced governance for the achievement of a sustainable society. We acknowledge that it is extremely important for us to actively address global environmental and social issues and contribute to the sustainability of society. These ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) initiatives also improve corporate value as non-financial value. Eisai is actively committed through its daily corporate activities to help achieve the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), contribute to the UN Global Compact, and improve of corporate value including non-financial value. Initiatives for Achieving SDGs Eisai is focusing its efforts on achieving the SDGs including the following three goals. 1．No Poverty ● Aim to contribute to patients through improvement of access to medicines in developing and emerging countries, thereby improving health and welfare as well as contributing to economic growth through the expansion of the middle-income class (Pages 15-17,29,36-39,79) 3．Good Health and Well-Being ● Creation of innovative medicines（Pages 12-14,40-45,49-63,92-94） ● Offering solutions that go beyond providing pharmaceuticals (Pages 46-48) ● Initiatives to eliminate neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) which are endemic in developing countries •Provision of diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets at Price Zero (free of charge) for elimination of lymphatic filariasis (Pages 15-17,29,37) •Initiatives to create new medicines for Chagas disease, filariasis, leishmaniasis, mycetoma, malaria and tuberculosis which spread mainly among people of lower-income classes in developing countries (Pages 16-17,38) ● Provision of Eisai products based on Affordable Pricing Policy in developing and emerging countries (Pages 17, 38-39) 17．Partnerships ● Partnerships with corporations, United Nations organizations, non-profit organizations, research institutions, academia and other groups for creating innovation in priority areas and expanding access to medicines (Pages 12-17,29-30,38,40-41,49-53,58-59,61-63,78-79) Eisai’s Initiatives for the UN Global Compact Eisai joined the UN Global Compact in December 2017. Eisai shall fulfill its contribution to the international community under its corporate philosophy, in accordance with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Ten Principles in four areas Status of initiatives Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect Eisai respects human rights and prevents, within the scope of Human the protection of human rights; and its business, modern slavery such as child labour, forced labour Rights Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in and human trafficking. In addition, Eisai's Charter of Business human rights abuses. Conduct requires it to take into consideration the cultures and Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of customs of the countries where it operates in the course of association and the recognition of the right business, and this Charter of Business Conduct is shared with to collective bargaining; all employees around the world. Regarding Human Rights and Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour, assessment is carried out with the aim of actualizing Labour potential risks at each of the five regions. Based on the results compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and of assessment, we will consider responses, as well as formulate Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect and execute action plans. of employment and occupation. Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary Eisai is committed to the formation of a low-carbon society and approach to environmental challenges; a recycling-oriented society. Environment Principle 8 : u ndertake initiatives to promote greater ＊For further details, please refer to pages 82-83. environmental responsibility ＊For further details, please refer to the Environmental Report. Principle 9 : e ncourage the development and diffusion ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/library/annual/index.html of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Aiming to undertake honest business activities, Eisai formulated in all its forms, including extortion and the Corporate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy Antibribery. for Eisai Network Companies. In addition, we have introduced Corruption a due diligence system for companies with which we plan to newly undertake transactions. ＊For further details, please refer to page 75. 84 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix An example of our initiatives for SDGs Remember I Love You: a project to improve understanding of dementia in China In China, population aging is accelerating rapidly. Although China will be the world’s largest ageing country in the 2030s, when those aged 60 years and older are expected to account for 30% or more of its total population, there is still a lack of understanding of dementia in society. It is estimated that only 21% of patients with dementia underwent a medical examination and only 19.6% of those patients received proper treatment＊. ＊Source: Chinese Journal of Neurology, Volume 46, Issue 1 Eisai China has been working on a variety of initiatives to raise awareness of dementia and improve consultation rate. These activities as collectively named “Remember I Love You.” Educational activities via social media -Yellow WristbandAs a part of this project, Eisai China has entered into a partnership with the China Population Welfare Foundation, and launched an official account called Yellow Wristband on WeChat, China’s largest social media platform. As yellow wristband is known as a symbol of dementia in China, it was chosen as the account name. The official Yellow Wristband account is regularly updated with articles on dementia and related disorders, videos on the symptoms of dementia and know-how on caregiving. It also provides information about simple diagnostic tools and a list of the outpatient centers for dementia across China. About Yellow Wristband 59,000 people have registered with the Yellow Wristband (as of May 2018). Eisai continues to enhance and provide easy-to-understand and useful information, and expand our disease awareness activities to more people. Disease awareness activities for dementia in a broad-ranging approach In addition to social media, Eisai has conducted various disease awareness activities regarding dementia through “socialization” with elderly people as well as discussions with doctors and caregivers to understand the needs of the people directly involved. For example, Eisai China has established dementia booths in parks and facilities in communities, held a media seminar with a medical expert on dementia in China and posted a special feature regarding dementia in newspapers and magazines. Through hhc activities, academic exchange meetings and cooperation with nursing care facilities, Eisai China is striving to promote a proper understanding of dementia, and working to build a society where patients with dementia and elderly people can live peacefully. Provision of Yellow Wristband to patient A simple diagnosis for dementia Eisai staff socializing with patients at a nursing home Impressions from project members of “Remember I Love You” We provide accurate information on dementia to patients, their family members and the public, and have worked for many years on disease awareness and the promotion of early consultation. We have provided patients with dementia and their family members with approximately 250,000 Yellow Wristbands with the address and contact information of the patient registered as a QR code. In fact, there have been cases where a patient who was lost came home safely thanks to the Yellow Wristband. Major project members of “Remember I Love You” Information on memory clinics across China, easy-to-understand facts and know-how regarding the care of patients with dementia are available on the official Yellow Wristband account. Through these activities, we feel that we are contributing to patients and their families, and this boosts our motivation to work. 85 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 ●Revenue of prescription drug business, consumer healthcare business and others Other business 46.8 billion yen Major Products (7.8%) Prescription drug business Consumer 531.6 billion yen healthcare business (88.6%) 21.7 billion yen Revenue in FY2017 Neurology area Product lineup mainly consisting of (3.6%) 600.1 170.8 billion yen two major focus areas billion yen (28.5%) (Neurology and Oncology) Others Oncology area 126.4 billion yen (21.1%) Prescription drug business Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥531.6 billion (Composition of consolidated revenue 88.6%) Neurology Area Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥170.8 billion (Composition of consolidated revenue 28.5%) Aricept® (generic name: donepezil) In-house Methycobal® (generic name: mecobalamin) In-house Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease/dementia with Lewy bodies Peripheral neuropathy treatment Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥44.3 billion (90% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥40.1 billion (100% YoY) A dementia treatment A mecobalamin (Vitamin B12 coenzyme) product originally discovered and discovered and developed by Eisai. Restores damaged developed in-house peripheral nerves and is widely used for the treatment of by Eisai that is peripheral neuropathy in Japan and other Asian countries. believed to slow the Although revenue is decreasing in Japan, revenues are overall progression increasing in China and Asia. of symptoms associated with Alzheimer’s disease by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase enzyme which breaks down the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Currently approved in more than 100 countries worldwide. The agent received additional approval for a new indication for the treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies in Japan, the Philippines and Thailand. Although revenue is decreasing mainly due to the expansion of generics in Japan, revenues are increasing in China and Asia. Fycompa® (generic name: perampanel) In-house Lyrica® (generic name: pregabalin) In-license Antiepileptic agent Pain treatment Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥14.7 billion (142% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2017 (Co-promotion income) ¥26.5 billion (109% YoY) An AMPA receptor antagonist discovered and developed inA pain treatment originally developed by Pfizer Inc. of the U.S. house by Eisai, Fycompa has been approved in Japan, the U.S., Currently approved in more than 130 countries worldwide. CoEurope and Asia for the adjunctive treatment for both partialpromoted in Japan onset seizures and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. by Pfizer Japan Inc. Currently, revenue is increasing worldwide. and Eisai Co., Ltd., with both companies working to provide information on its proper use. Revenue is increasing due to the success of activities to raise awareness of peripheral neuropathy. BELVIQ® (generic name: lorcaserin) In-license Lunesta® (generic name: eszopiclone) In-license Treatment for chronic weight management Insomnia treatment Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥4.8 billion (123% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥10.2 billion (127% YoY) A new chemical entity discovered and A non-benzodiazepine developed by Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. type GABA A receptor that is believed to encourage decreased agonist that was food consumption and promote satiety originally developed by selectively activating serotonin 2C by Sunovion receptors in the brain. BELVIQ® was the first Pharmaceuticals Inc. prescription treatment for obesity approved Eisai has pursued by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration the development in 13 years and was launched in June 2013. of the product Additionally, the once-daily formulation was since acquiring the launched in the U.S. in October 2016. exclusive rights from Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. to develop In fiscal 2017, the market environment in the U.S. was very and market the agent in Japan. The product was launched in tough and revenue decreased, however revenue to partners Japan in April 2012. grew in regions outside the U.S., and global revenue increased. Revenue increased mainly due to the success of activities to raise awareness of Lunesta as “a drug for the elderly” in Japan. 86 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Oncology Area Gastrointestinal Area Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥126.4 billion (Composition of consolidated revenue 21.1%) EA Pharma Co., Ltd., a gastrointestinal specialty pharma with a full value chain including research and development, production and logistics, sales and marketing, was formed in Halaven® (generic name: eribulin) In-house April 2016 from the merger of Eisai’s gastrointestinal treatment Anticancer agent/microtubule dynamics inhibitor business and AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. In Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥39.9 billion (107% YoY) Japan, EA Pharma Co., Ltd. conducts promotional activities in the field of gastrointestinal diseases. An anticancer agent discovered and developed in-house by Eisai. A synthetic analog of halichondrin B derived from the marine sponge Halichondria okadai. Shows an antitumor Pariet® (generic name: rabeprazole) In-house effect by arresting the cell cycle Proton-pump inhibitor through inhibition of the growth Revenue in fiscal 2017 (in Japan) ¥17.2 billion (81% YoY) of microtubules. Approved in more than 65 countries for the A proton-pump inhibitor originally discovered and developed treatment of breast cancer. in-house by Eisai. Indicated for the treatment of gastric Approved in over 50 countries and duodenal ulcers, reflux esophagitis and eradication of for use in the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infections, etc. Approved in more than 100 liposarcoma (soft tissue sarcoma countries worldwide. in Japan). Although revenues are increasing in China and Asia, revenue In fiscal 2017, contribution to is decreasing mainly patients in Japan was expanded due to increasingly to an earlier line of treatment, severe competition and global revenue grew. and the expansion of generics in Japan. Lenvima® (generic name: lenvatinib) In-house Anticancer agent/molecular targeted drug Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥32.2 billion (150% YoY) A selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) with a novel binding Generic Business (Elmed Eisai Co., Ltd.) mode originally discovered and developed in-house by Eisai. Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥27.8 billion Approved as a treatment of refractory thyroid cancer in over 50 countries worldwide. In March 2018, a strategic capital alliance agreement as In addition, the agent has been approved for use in well as a share transfer agreement were signed with Nichithe treatment of renal cell carcinoma in combination with Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. regarding Eisai’s generic everolimus in over 45 countries including the U.S. and Europe pharmaceutical business subsidiary Elmed Eisai Co., Ltd. (product name in Europe: Kisplyx®). All shares of Elmed Eisai Co., Ltd. are to be transferred Revenue is increasing worldwide. incrementally to Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (scheduled for completion on April 1, 2019). Consumer Healthcare Business Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥21.7 billion (Composition of consolidated revenue 3.6%) Chocola BB® Products Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥13.9 billion (112% YoY) Others Ranging from the signature product Chocola BB® Plus, a Vitamin B2 preparation for rough skin and stomatitis, a variety Humira® (generic name: adalimumab) In-license of products such as third-class OTC drugs, designated quasiFully human anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody drugs and food with nutrient function claims are available. Revenue in fiscal 2017 ¥54.9 billion (116% YoY) In fiscal 2017, revenue increased due to the launch of new and updated products as well as the effect of television A treatment for autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid commercials and growth of Chocola BB® from inbound arthritis. In Japan, the agent is manufactured and marketed by tourism. AbbVie GK and marketed by Eisai. AbbVie GK and Eisai are co-promoting the agent for the indications in the areas other Chocola.com than gastrointestinal disease, while AbbVie GK and EA Pharma ▶ http://www.chocola.com/index.html (Japanese only) Co. Ltd., are co-promoting the agent for the indications in the gastrointestinal disease area. Revenue is increasing in Japan and Asia mainly due to the success of promotion leveraging the strengths of having a wide range of indications. Chocola BB® Plus: Chocola BB® Royal 2: Third-class OTC drug Designated quasi-drug 87 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Financial Capital Consolidated Financial Highlights Achieved double-digit growth in revenue/profit in fiscal 2017 Secured financial integrity which enables stable dividend and proactive investment (Billion yen) (Reference data) (Billion yen) Financial Indicators (IFRS) FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Financial Indicators (J-GAAP) FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 〈Income Statement Items〉 〈Income Statement Items〉 Revenue 600.1 539.1 547.9 548.5 599.5 Net sales 600.4 573.7 648.0 768.9 803.2 781.7 Cost of sales 201.3 195.9 194.5 193.6 194.7 Cost of sales 188.2 174.1 173.4 167.8 160.7 152.5 Ratio to revenue (%) 33.5 36.3 35.5 35.3 32.5 31.3 30.3 26.8 21.8 20.0 19.5 Gross profit 398.8 343.2 353.5 354.9 404.8 Ratio to revenue (%) 66.5 63.7 64.5 64.7 67.5 Gross profit 412.2 399.6 474.6 601.1 642.4 629.3 Research and development 68.7 69.7 73.2 78.2 80.0 80.5 expenses＊ 139.6 117.2 122.3 131.9 136.3 Research and development Ratio to revenue (%) 23.3 21.7 22.3 24.1 22.7 expenses 130.5 120.4 125.1 145.0 179.1 156.1 Selling, general and 21.7 21.0 19.3 18.9 22.3 20.0 administrative expenses＊ 183.9 174.9 192.8 194.5 203.3 Selling, general and Ratio to revenue (%) 30.6 32.5 35.2 35.5 33.9 administrative expenses 210.5 208.7 253.7 343.0 376.9 381.4 Other income 3.0 13.6 17.7 1.0 4.1 35.1 36.4 39.1 44.6 46.9 48.8 Ratio to revenue (%) 0.5 2.5 3.2 0.2 0.7 Other expenses 1.1 5.6 4.1 1.1 2.8 Ratio to revenue (%) 0.2 1.0 0.7 0.2 0.5 Operating income 71.1 70.5 95.7 113.1 86.4 91.8 Operating profit 77.2 59.1 51.9 28.3 66.4 11.8 12.3 14.8 14.7 10.8 11.7 Ratio to revenue (%) 12.9 11.0 9.5 5.2 11.1 Profit for the year 54.4 42.2 55.0 43.5 38.5 Ordinary income 64.9 65.6 90.0 105.2 79.7 82.6 Ratio to revenue (%) 9.1 7.8 10.0 7.9 6.4 10.8 11.4 13.9 13.7 9.9 10.6 Profit for the year attributable 51.8 39.4 54.9 43.3 38.3 Net income (loss) 33.0 48.3 58.5 67.4 40.3 47.7 to owners of the parent Ratio to revenue (%) 8.6 7.3 10.0 7.9 6.4 5.5 8.4 9.0 8.8 5.0 6.1 Comprehensive income for the year 53.8 36.8 16.5 114.2 84.5 ＊ From fiscal 2017, Eisai has clarified the definition of research and development expenses in order to more accurately reflect the condition of the business, and this has resulted in a portion of expenses relating to medical affairs activities, such as creation and provision of scientific evidence for health care providers, being apportioned to research and development expenses. The figures for fiscal 2016 have been revised and restated to reflect this change. <Cash Flow Statement Items> <Cash Flow Statement Items> Net cash from operating Net cash from operating 149.6 75.9 95.6 76.0 91.3 85.7 73.2 90.6 123.2 107.9 105.0 activities activities Net cash from investing Net cash from investing 17.0 (28.6) (6.7) (18.8) 20.9 26.2 21.7 (2.6) (58.8) (69.8) (55.0) activities activities Net cash from financing Net cash from financing (81.9) (35.4) (72.9) (59.7) (115.1) (114.8) (81.8) (78.0) (68.0) (49.2) (31.0) activities activities Free cash flow＊ 136.7 81.7 81.2 61.3 87.3 Free cash flow＊ 66.4 54.5 71.4 100.3 52.9 59.3 ＊＊ ＊ Free cash flow = “Net cash from operating activities” – “Capital expenditures(cash basis) ” ＊＊ Expenditures from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures in IFRS . <Financial Position Items> <Balance Sheet Items> Total assets 1,049.0 1,030.8 974.0 1,053.8 973.8 Total assets 945.5 990.2 1,004.7 1,046.3 1,101.9 1,148.2 Equity attributable to owners 593.6 584.6 573.7 598.7 526.3 Shareholders’ equity 506.8 469.4 416.8 404.2 415.9 428.0 of the parent Non-controlling interests 20.5 18.0 3.2 3.3 3.1 Total liabilities 434.9 428.2 397.2 451.8 444.4 Revenue Operating profit Profit for the year Free cash flow (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (attributable to owners of the parent) (Billion yen) 600.1 (Billion yen) 548.5 547.9 539.1 77.2 54.9 51.8 136.7 59.1 43.3 51.9 39.4 81.2 81.7 28.3 61.3 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 88 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix (Reference data) Managerial Indices (IFRS) FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Managerial Indices (J-GAAP) FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 Ratio of R&D expenses to Ratio of R&D expenses to net revenue (%) 23.3 21.7 22.3 24.1 22.7 21.7 21.0 19.3 18.9 22.3 20.0 sales (%) Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent 8.8 6.8 9.4 7.7 7.6 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 6.8 10.9 14.3 16.4 9.6 10.9 (ROE) (%) Return on sales ratio (%) 5.5 8.4 9.0 8.8 5.0 6.1 Return on sales ratio (%) 9.1 7.8 10.0 7.9 6.4 Leverage (times) 1.9 2.1 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.7 Leverage (times) 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.9 Total capital turnover ratio Total capital turnover ratio 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 (no. of times) 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 (no. of times) Ratio of equity attributable Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 53.6 47.4 41.5 38.6 37.7 37.3 to owners of the parent (%) 56.6 56.7 58.9 56.8 54.0 Net debt equity ratio Net debt equity ratio (Net DER) (0.27) (0.11) (0.06) 0.00 0.08 (times) 0.14 0.27 0.38 0.49 0.62 0.63 (Net DER)(times)＊1 Dividend on equity Dividend on equity (DOE) (%) 8.8 9.6 10.4 10.4 10.1 9.1 attributable to owners of 7.3 7.4 7.3 7.6 8.5 the parent (DOE)(%)＊2 Dividend payout ratio (DPR)(%) 129.8 88.6 73.1 63.4 105.9 83.7 Dividend payout ratio (DPR) (%) 82.8 109.0 78.0 99.0 111.8 Earnings per share (basic) Earnings per share (EPS) (yen) 115.6 169.4 205.3 236.5 141.6 167.3 (EPS) (yen) 181.2 137.6 192.2 151.6 134.1 Dividend per share (DPS) (yen) 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 Dividend per share (DPS) (yen) 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 140.0 ＊1 “Net debt equity ratio (Net DER)” = (“Interest-bearing debt” (“Bonds and borrowings”) – “Cash and cash equivalents” – “Time deposits exceeding three months, etc.” – “Investment securities held by the parent company＊＊ ”)/ “Equity attributable to owners of the parent” ＊＊ Investment securities held by the parent company are included in the formula used to calculate liabilities ratio. ＊2 Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent (DOE) = Dividend payout ratio (DPR) x Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) Statement of Income -Achieved double-digit growth in revenue/profitDue to the growth of anticancer agent Halaven®, Lenvima®, Humira® (fully-human anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody) and antiepileptic agent Fycompa® in addition to the receipt of lump-sum payments per the strategic collaboration with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA (“U.S. Merck”), the Group’s revenue finished overall at ¥600.1 billion (up 11.3% year on year). Operating profit totaled ¥77.2 billion (up 30.7% year on year) as increased gross profit from the increase in revenue outweighed the aggressive R&D investment in dementia and oncology projects. Statement of Financial Position -Secured financial integrityTotal assets as of the end of this fiscal year amounted to ¥1,049.0 billion (up ¥18.3 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year) due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents primarily accompanying the receipt of an upfront payment and reimbursement for research and development payment from U.S. Merck. Total liabilities as of the end of this fiscal year amounted to ¥434.9 billion (up ¥6.8 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year) due to the recording of reimbursement for research and development payment from U.S. Merck as deposits received, despite repayment of long-term borrowings (¥50.0 billion). Total equity as of the end of this fiscal year amounted to ¥614.1 billion (up ¥11.5 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year) due to an increase in retained earnings from an increase in profit, despite a decrease in exchange differences due to appreciation of the yen. As a result of the above, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent was 56.6% (down 0.1 percentage points from the end of the previous fiscal year). Statement of Cash Flows -Secured free cash flow, significantly exceeding annual dividend payment of ¥42.9billionNet cash provided by operating activities amounted to an inflow of ¥149.6 billion (up ¥73.8 billion from the previous fiscal year). This was primarily due to decrease in working capital (down ¥63.0 billion from the previous fiscal year) due to increase in deposit received accompanying receipt of reimbursement of research and development payment from U.S. Merck (up ¥47.0 billion from the previous fiscal year). Net cash provided by investing activities amounted to an inflow of ¥17.0 billion (outflow of ¥28.6 billion in the previous fiscal year). This was primarily due to proceeds from redemption of time deposits exceeding three months accompanying repayment of long-term borrowings. Capital expenditures＊ totaled ¥13.0 billion. Net cash used in financing activities amounted to an outflow of ¥81.9 billion (up ¥46.4 billion from the previous fiscal year). Expenditure due to repayment of long-term borrowings was ¥50.0 billion, and the amount of dividends paid was ¥42.9 billion. Free cash flows (cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures., etc.) for the year stood at ¥136.7 billion (up 55.0 billion from the previous fiscal year). ＊Expenditure from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures. 89 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 ESG Index Aiming to enhance non-financial capital to help Eisai grow sustainably Eisai publishes ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) indices to assess its corporate activities every year. Scope of data : ■Eisai Group (Eisai Co., Ltd. and Group companies in and outside Japan) ■Eisai Co., Ltd. ■Eisai Group in Japan (Eisai Co., Ltd. and Group companies in Japan) (Data for subsidiaries and businesses transferred is included until the date the transfer was completed) Future policy : ◦ Items that do not require significant improvement at present  Items for improvement ●Corporate Governance and Compliance Indices Index Period FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 ◦ Ratio of outside directors to all directors At fiscal year end 63.6% (7/11) 63.6% (7/11) 63.6% (7/11) 63.6% (7/11) 63.6% (7/11) ◦ Ratio of women to directors At fiscal year end 9.1% (1/11) 9.1% (1/11) 9.1% (1/11) 9.1% (1/11) 9.1% (1/11) Ratio of women to corporate officers At fiscal year end 4.3% (1/23) 9.1% (2/22) 8.0% (2/25) 14.8% (4/27) 11.1% (3/27) ◦ Average age of corporate officers At fiscal year end 53.0 53.1 53.6 52.9 52.9 ◦ Remuneration (base Directors (internal) At fiscal year end ¥116 million ¥114 million ¥113 million ¥113 million ¥113 million ◦ salary, bonuses, Directors (outside) At fiscal year end ¥82 million ¥76 million ¥74 million ¥74 million ¥74 million ◦ retirement benefits) Corporate officers At fiscal year end ¥1,055 million ¥976 million ¥1,310 million ¥1,247 million ¥1,203 million ◦ Number of times Number of times offered Annually 65 56 47 62 65 Number of executive ◦ compliance training training courses Annually 2 2 2 2 2 offered ◦ Total participants Annually Approx. 5,800 Approx. 5,000 Approx. 4,600 Approx. 5,800 Approx. 4,800 ◦ Number of times Number of times offered Annually 23 28 30 34 34 human rights training ◦ offered Participants Annually 2,452 2,405 5,001 5,457 5,477 Number of cases subject to investigation ◦ by the authorities due to violation of antiAt fiscal year end 0 0 0 0 0 corruption acts Number of employee disciplinary dismissals ◦ due to violation of anti-corruption acts At fiscal year end 0 0 0 0 0 −＊ Fines, penalties and costs of settlement ◦ related to violation of anti-corruption acts At fiscal year end 0 0 0 0 0 ＊ The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, the Unfair Competition Prevention Act in Japan, etc. ●Environmental Indices Index Period FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 ◦ Amount of CO2 emissions Annually 163,784t 138,995t 120,271t 115,514t 115,485t ◦ Amount of electricity consumption Annually 204,874MWh 181,057MWh 161,927MWh 165,417MWh 168,556MWh ◦ Amount of waste generated Annually 4,917t 4,001t 3,481t 2,935t 3,038t Amount of chemical substances handled ◦ subject to the PRTR system Annually 469t 499t 476t 258t 267t ◦ Waste-recycling rate Annually 34.9% 50.6% 57.7% 62.8% 58.7% Number of administrative penalties and ◦ litigations related to the environment Annually 0 0 0 0 0 ●Social Indices Involvement with Patients Index Period FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of pending Japan At fiscal year end 3 1 0 3 1 prescription drug applications Overseas At fiscal year end 1 2 4 3 3 −＊ Number of prescription drugs Japan At fiscal year end 4 4 3 1 4 approved Overseas At fiscal year end 1 4 4 3 2 Number of patents (number of patent ◦ applications) Annually 88 87 65 55 51 ◦ Number of inquiries to hhc Hotline Annually 99,471 91,286 97,444 90,742 82,028 Number of complaints ◦ (concerning product quality) Annually 368 336 314 323 309 ＊ Includes additional indications and formulations. 90 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Involvement with Society Index Period FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 ◦ Amount of funds donated Annually ¥2,377 million ¥2,073 million ¥2,602 million ¥2,118 million ¥2,505 million Visitors to the Naito Museum of  Pharmaceutical Science and Industry Annually 34,111 35,705 36,325 40,480 41,483  Number of participants in plant tours Annually 4,044 3,178 2,443 2,456 2,486 −＊ ＊ Misato plant business operations transferred to Bushu Pharmaceuticals Ltd. on March 31, 2014 Involvement with Employees Index Period FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 ◦ Number of employees Total At fiscal year end 10,419 10,183 9,877 10,452 10,456 Japan At fiscal year end 5,200 4,712 4,523 5,009 4,914 Americas At fiscal year end 1,763 1,719 1,290 1,296 1,240 (North America) China At fiscal year end 1,559 1,607 1,875 1,909 1,906 Number of employees by EMEA (Europe, Middle region East, Africa, Russia At fiscal year end 811 893 913 983 1,022 and Oceania) Asia and Latin America (excluding At fiscal year end 1,086 1,252 1,276 1,255 1,374 Japan and China) Total At fiscal year end 4,130 3,583 3,577 3,508 3,436 3,202 2,845 2,838 2,775 2,708 Male At fiscal year end (77.5%) (79.4%) (79.3%) (79.1%) (78.8%) Number of employees 928 738 739 733 728 −＊1 Female At fiscal year end (22.5%) (20.6%) (20.7%) (20.9%) (21.2%) 1,455 1,359 1,370 1,389 1,401 Management At fiscal year end (35.2%) (37.9%) (38.3%) (39.6%) (40.8%) Ratio of temporary employees to total At fiscal year end 5.1% / 222 5.7% / 215 3.7% / 136 4.3% / 156 5.9% / 217 employees / Number of temporary employees Ratio of women in management positions  to total management / Number of women At fiscal year end 4.1% / 60 4.6% / 63 4.7% / 65 5.2% / 72 6.1% / 86 management Average age At fiscal year end 42.5 43.7 44.1 44.8 45.3 Total At fiscal year end 20.0 19.4 19.9 20.4 20.8 Average years of Male At fiscal year end 20.7 20.3 20.8 21.4 21.9 employment Female At fiscal year end 17.8 15.9 16.2 16.9 16.9 Turnover rate Annually 1.6% 1.4% 2.6% 3.1% 2.5% −＊1 Total Annually 78 90 95 89 97 Number of users of  childcare leave Male Annually 1 1 2 0 5 Female Annually 77 89 93 89 92 Number of users of short working hours Annually 86 73 93 80 75 system for childcare Average annual salary (according to the ¥10,401 ¥10,403 ¥10,939 ¥10,389 ¥10,446 Annually annual securities report) thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand Personal development expenses (per ◦ employee) Annually ¥177,300 ¥175,800 ¥198,400 ¥210,200 ¥214,100 −＊1,2 ◦ Percentage of employees with disabilities Annually 2.39% 2.56% 2.53% 2.65% 2.84% Ratio of women in new employees per year 36.9% 14.3% 33.3% 38.2% 44.3% ◦ (Female / total) Annually (31/84) (2/14) (35/105) (21/55) (31/70) Average monthly overtime hours 10 hours 12 hours 9 hours 8 hours 9 hours ◦ (per non-management employee) Annually 46 minutes 11 minutes 11 minutes 34 minutes 44 minutes −＊1  Number of work-related accidents Annually 17 10 18 27 19 Frequency of work-related ◦ injuries that result in more Employee Annually 0 0 0.29 0 0 than 4 days of work lost ◦ (per work) million hours of actual Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 ◦ Number of work-related Employee Annually 0 0 0 0 0 −＊1 ◦ fatalities Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 ◦ Number of cases of workEmployee Annually 0 0 0 0 0 −＊1 ◦ related occupational illness Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 ◦ Percentage of employees Employee Annually 99.83% 99.75% 99.86% 99.48% 99.56% −＊1 who undergo health ◦ checks Family members Annually 76.57% 74.45% 71.16% 80.57% 78.10% −＊3 Average days of paid vacation taken  (per non-management employee) Annually 12.3 12.1 12.1 12.4 12.9 −＊1 ＊1 Based on the number of fulltime Eisai Co., Ltd. employees ＊2 Personal development expenses include training, studying abroad, participation in academic conferences ＊3 Health check eligibility includes dependent spouses and nondependent family members aged 40 or older 91 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Major R&D Pipeline Intellectual Capital Neurology Area Major R&D Pipeline (As of the end of July 2018) Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approval Aricept® donepezil/E2020 Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease / dementia with Lewy bodies In-house Oral agent Severe Alzheimer’s disease (Additional Indication) China November 2017 ＊For further details, please refer to page 86. Fycompa® perampanel/E2007 Antieplieptic agent / AMPA receptor antagonist In-house Oral agent Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures U.S. July 2017 (Additional Indication) Japan Lennox-Gastaut syndrome Japan/U.S./ (Additional Indication) Europe U.S. March 2018 Pediatric epilepsy (Additional Indication) Japan/ Europe Submission Adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures China under preparation ＊For further details, please refer to page 86. lemborexant/E2006 Orexin receptor antagonist In-house Oral agent Description: By antagonizing the orexin receptors that are involved in the regulation of sleep and awakening, it is expected to alleviate wakefulness and thereby induce and maintain natural sleep. Japan/U.S./ Insomnia disorder (Co-development with Purdue Pharma L.P.) Europe Irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder associated with Alzheimer’s disease dementia Japan/U.S. (Co-development with Purdue Pharma L.P.) elenbecestat/E2609 Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease / Beta secretase cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor In-house Oral agent Japan/U.S./ Early Alzheimer’s disease (Co-development with Biogen Inc.) Europe/China ＊For further details, please refer to page 43. aducanumab/BIIB037 Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease / anti-beta amyloid (Aβ) monoclonal antibody In-license (Biogen Inc.) Injection Japan/U.S./ Early Alzheimer’s disease (Co-development with Biogen Inc.) Europe ＊For further details, please refer to page 43. BAN2401 Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease / anti-Aβ protofibril monoclonal antibody In-license (BioArctic AB) Injection Japan/U.S./ Early Alzheimer’s disease (Co-development with Biogen Inc.) Europe ＊For further details, please refer to page 43. safinamide/ME2125 Anti-Parkinson’s disease agent / MAO-B inhibitor In-license (Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd.) Oral agent Description: A selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor, which reduces the degradation of secreted dopamine, helping to maintain the density of dopamine in the brain. Additionally, it blocks sodium ion channels and inhibits glutamate release, and as such, has the potential to be a new Parkinson’s disease treatment which possesses both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic mechanisms. Submission Parkinson’s disease Japan under preparation E2027 Treatment for dementia with Lewy bodies / phosphodiesterase (PDE) 9 inhibitor In-house Oral agent Description: A selective phosphodiesterase (PDE) 9 inhibitor, which reduces the degradation of cyclic GMP which is critical to signal transmission among cells. By helping maintain the concentration of cyclic GMP in the brain, E2027 has the potential to be a new treatment for dementia with Lewy bodies. Japan/U.S./ Dementia with Lewy bodies Europe BELVIQ® lorcaserin/APD356 Anti-obesity agent / serotonin 2C receptor antagonist In-license (Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.) Oral agent Obesity Japan ＊For further details, please refer to page 86. E2730 In-house Oral agent Epilepsy U.S. E2082 In-house Oral agent Epilepsy Japan 92 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ＊ Intellectual Capital Oncology Area Major R&D Pipeline (As of the end of July 2018) ＊ Regarding Lenvima, additional indication of hepatocellular carcinoma includes information as of the end of August 2018. Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved Halaven® eribulin/E7389 Anticancer agent / microtubule dynamics inhibitor In-house Injection Breast cancer China November 2017 Bladder cancer (Additional indication) U.S./Europe Triple negative breast cancer (in combination with anti-PD1 antibody KEYTRUDA®) (Co-development with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. Merck)) U.S. HER2-negative breast cancer (in combination with PEGPH20) (Co-development with Halozyme Therapeutics Inc.) U.S. Japan/ Liposome formulation (Additional formulation) Europe ＊For further details, please refer to page 87. Lenvima®/Kisplyx® lenvatinib/E7080 Anticancer agent / molecular targeted drug In-house Oral agent Japan March 2018 U.S. August 2018 Hepatocellular carcinoma (Additional Indication) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Europe August 2018 Asia (South Korea) August 2018 China October 2017 Thyroid cancer (Co-development with U.S. Merck) China Renal cell carcinoma/First-line (Additional indication) (In combination with anticancer agent Japan/U.S./ everolimus or anti-PD1 antibody KEYTRUDA®) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Europe Endometrial carcinoma/Second-line Japan/U.S./ (in combination with anti-PD1 antibody KEYTRUDA®)(Co-development with U.S. Merck) Europe Non-small cell lung cancer (RET translocations) (Additional indication) Japan/U.S./ (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Europe/Asia Biliary tract cancer (Additional indication) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Japan Select solid tumors (endometrial cancer, renal cell carcinoma, head and neck cancer, U.S. urothelial cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma) (in combination with anti-PD1 antibody KEYTRUDA®) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Japan Hepatocellular carcinoma Japan/ (in combination with anti-PD1 antibody KEYTRUDA®) U.S. (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Hepatocellular carcinoma (in combination with anti-PD1 antibody nivolumab) Japan (Co-development with Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) ＊For further details, please refer to page 87. Farletuzumab/MORAb-003 Anticancer agent / humanized anti-FRA monoclonal antibody In-house Injection Description: A humanized IgG1 antibody that targets folate receptor alpha (FRA). Expected to show an antitumor effect against cancers that over-express FRA. Japan/U.S./ Platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer Europe MORAb-004 Anticancer agent / humanized anti-endosialin monoclonal antibody In-house Injection Description: A humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody that targets Tumor Endothelial Marker 1(TEM-1)/endosialin. Expected to show an antitumor effect against cancers that express endosialin. Melanoma U.S./Europe Amatuximab / MORAb-009 Anticancer agent / chimeric anti-mesothelin monoclonal antibody In-house Injection Description: A chimeric IgG1 monoclonal antibody that targets mesothelin. Expected to show an antitumor effect against cancers that express mesothelin. Mesothelioma U.S./Europe E7777 Anticancer agent / interleukin-2 diptheria toxin fusion protein In-house Injection Description: A fusion protein that combines the interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor binding domain with diptheria toxins. Specifically binds to IL-2 receptors on the cell surface, causing diptheria toxins that have entered cells to inhibit protein synthesis. Peripheral T-cell lymphoma and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma Japan Tazemetostat/E7438 Anticancer agent / EZH2 inhibitor In-license (Epizyme Inc.) Oral agent Description: Believed to have an important role in carcinogenesis, the epigenetic enzyme EZH2 is one of the proteins that constitute the histone methyltransferases. Discovered by Epizyme, Inc. through its proprietary product platform, E7438 is a first-in-class, orally administered small molecule inhibitor, and is expected to exhibit antitumor effects via inhibition of the epigenetic enzyme EZH2. Eisai is responsible for development and commercialization within Japan and has the right of first negotiation for licensing rights in Asia. Non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma Japan H3B-6545 In-house Oral agent Breast cancer U.S. E7090 In-house Oral agent Solid tumors Japan H3B-6527 In-house Oral agent Hepatocellular carcinoma U.S./Europe H3B-8800 In-house Oral agent Blood cancer U.S./Europe E7386 Collaboration (PRISM Pharma) Oral agent Solid tumors Europe MORAb-202 In-house Injection Solid tumors Japan E7130 Collaboration (Harvard University) Injection Solid tumors Japan 93 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 G  astrointestinal Disease Area Major R&D Pipeline Intellectual Capital (As of the end of July 2018) Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved Pariet® rabeprazole/E3810 Proton-pump inhibitor In-house Oral agent Maintenance therapy for proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-resistant reflux esophagitis 10 mg per Japan dose twice daily (Additional dosage and administration) (Co-development with EA Pharma) September 2017 ＊For further details, please refer to page 87. Rectabul® budesonide/AJG511 Ulcerative colitis treatment / locally-active steroid In-license (Dr. Falk Pharma GmbH) Rectal foam The first rectal foam product in Japan containing budesonide as the active ingredient. Budesonide is a locally-active steroid and therefore is expected to reduce systemic side effects. In addition, budesonide is a foam type product that can reach inflamed sites of the rectum and sigmoid colon by rectal administration, and has a characteristic feature of preventing leakage after administration. Budesonide rectal foam is already available on the market in Europe. Ulcerative colitis (Co-development with EA Pharma and Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) Japan September 2017 ® Goofice elobixibat/AJG533 Chronic constipation treatment / bile acid transporter inhibitor In-license (Albireo Pharma, Inc.) Oral agent Description: An orally available constipation treatment with a novel mechanism of action. Elobixibat inhibits the bile acid transporter that regulates reabsorption of bile acids and thereby enhances natural defecation. Chronic constipation Japan (Co-development with EA Pharma and Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) January 2018 AJG555 Chronic constipation treatment / polyethylene glycol preparation In-license (Norgine B.V.) Oral agent Description: An orally available constipation treatment consisting of a polyethylene glycol preparation which facilitates bowel movement by suppressing osmotic pressure in the intestines. Chronic constipation Japan (Co-development with EA Pharma and Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) November 2017 carotegrast methyl/AJM300 Ulcerative colitis treatment / α4 integrin antagonist In-house Oral agent Description: α4 integrin antagonist with a novel mechanism of action believed to suppress adhesion and infiltration of lymphocytes. Aiming to be marketed as the first orally-available α4 integrin antagonist in the world to be effective in ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis (Co-development with EA Pharma and Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) Japan Livact® Granules isoleucine, leucine and valine granules Branched-chain amino acid formula In-house Oral agent Description: A branched-chain amino acid formula developed by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. that increases serum albumin levels in patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis. Approved in Japan for “improvement of hypoalbuminemia in patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis that have hypoalbuminemia despite adequate dietary intake,” and marketed by EA Pharma. Hypoalbuminemia (Co-development with EA Pharma) China E6007 Ulcerative colitis treatment / integrin activation inhibitor In-house Oral agent Description: A compound with a novel mechanism of action that is believed to suppress the adhesion and infiltration by multiple leukocyte types by inhibiting integrin activation. Development is conducted jointly with the University of Tsukuba as an industria-academia practical application project under the Japan Science and Technology Agency. Ulcerative colitis (Development conducted by EA Pharma) Japan Research and development in the gastrointestinal disease area is mainly conducted by Eisai's subsidiary EA Pharma. In fiscal 2017, there was significant progress in the development pipeline with the approval of Rectabul®, Goofice®, and other developments. Intellectual Capital Other Major R&D Pipeline (As of the end of July 2018) Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved E6011 Anti-fractalkine antibody In-house Injection Description: The world’s first humanized anti-fractalkine monoclonal antibody discovered by the Eisai subsidiary KAN Research Institute Inc. Believed to exert an anti-inflammatory effect by neutralizing fractalkine. Fractalkine is found in vascular endothelial cells and induces an inflammatory response associated with diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel diseases. Rheumatoid arthritis Japan Primary biliary cholangitis (Development conducted by EA Pharma) Japan Crohn’s disease (Development conducted by EA Pharma) Japan MORAb-022 Antibody In-house Injection Rheumatoid arthritis U.S. E6742 In-house Oral agent Autoimmune disorder U.S. 94 Fundamental Knowledge and Terminology for Pharmaceutical Industry Flow of R&D (Drug Creation Research) Drug creation research can be broken down into three stages: drug discovery research, drug development research and clinical research. After drug discovery research, drug development research and three phases of clinical trials (PhaseⅠ, Phase Ⅱ, and Phase Ⅲ), drug candidates that are approved by regulatory authorities can be launched on the market. ●Drug Creation Process and Research Activities Drug discovery Research and Development Drug fostering and research evolution (After launch) API supply / Investigational drug manufacturing Drug use results survey Synthesis for drug discovery Lead compound optimization Process chemistry research Clinical research Clinical studies Formulation research after approval Physical properties analysis and Screening Review Phase I studies Phase II studies Phase III studies research Clinical New drug SubIdea Target candidates introduction mission Approval Safety research Biological evaluation Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Drug-drug interaction in vitro / in vivo Drug development research for efficacy studies Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics General pharmacology Compatibility testing Physical properties Biomarker research General pharmacology Build Safety Database Safety Non-clinical research Biomarker research Discovery research to approval Indication expansion and new formulation development research Drug discovery research patients who have given their permission. Based on a drug creation idea, this is research which uses cell •Phase Ⅲ study: Trial to validate efficacy and safety theories based assays and animal models to identify compounds which obtained thus far via double-blind tests, etc. in a large have the required properties. Generally, compound libraries, number of patients who have given their permission. which contain anywhere from several hundred thousand to There are also post-launch trials (Phase Ⅳ studies) to gather several million compound groups, are searched for compounds long-term information on efficacy and safety. Since Phase Ⅳ which effect target proteins related to the disease. These studies are carried out with approved indications and dosage, compounds are chemically modified and then go through they are categorized as “therapeutic use” trials. pharmacological, metabolic, and safety studies to determine if Application for approval (Japan) they have the potential for human use. For a new drug which has gone through all efficacy and safety Development research trials, the pharmaceutical company applies to the Ministry of This is research implemented to optimize drug candidates Health, Labour and Welfare for manufacturing and marketing that were identified in the drug discovery stage. Various tests approval. Experts from the Pharmaceuticals and Medical including pharmacological and pharmacokinetic studies, safety Devices Agency and the Pharmaceutical Affairs and Food studies and toxicity studies are carried out based on GLP＊ Sanitation Council review the drug, and if approval is granted, standards. Process chemical research is also performed for the pharmaceutical company may begin manufacturing and quality, large-scale synthesis and formulization. API (Active marketing it. Pharmaceutical Ingredient) for human use is synthesized based on GMP＊ standards. Drug fostering and evolution (Japan) Even after the drug is launched, it is very important to continually ＊GLP: Good Laboratory Practice ＊GMP: Good Manufacturing Practice investigate/evaluate patient backgrounds, usage methods, effects, side-effects, etc., and to collect information relating Clinical trials (Clinical studies) to effective and safe usage. Drug fostering and evolution is Trials to confirm the effects of a pharmaceutical on humans. based on this way of thinking and includes various mechanisms The goal of these trials is to evaluate factors such as efficacy (systems, activities) carried out from the respective standpoints and safety in humans in order to obtain regulatory approval of doctors, pharmacists, pharmaceutical companies, based on the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law＊. Trial contents, researchers, and patients to improve the drug in terms of ease methodology, reports, etc., are regulated by the Pharmaceutical of usage, safety and efficiency. Affairs Law, GCP＊, and various governmental guidelines. ＊Pharmaceutical Affairs Law: The law on securing quality, efficacy and safety of Post-marketing product surveillance (Japan) products including pharmaceuticals and medical devices ＊GCP: Good Clinical Practice Post-marketing product surveillance based on GVP＊ and GPSP＊ standards must be implemented for new drugs released Generally, clinical trials are divided into the following three on the market, and periodic safety reports submitted. After a phases: certain period of time, the drug is re-examined, and following •PhaseⅠstudy: Trial to investigate safety and that, the drug is monitored within the drug re-evaluation system. pharmacokinetics in a small number of healthy people ＊GPSP: Good Post-marketing Study Practice (patients when testing anticancer drugs) who have given ＊GVP: Good Vigilance Practice their permission. •Phase Ⅱ study: Trial to confirm safe and efficient dosage Indication expansion amounts and administration methods in a small number of When a new indication is added to an already approved pharmaceutical. 95 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Patents for New Drugs and Generics Substance patents are used to lay claim to chemical less than 20 years in the field of pharmaceuticals, as these compounds. Until the patent term expires, only the patent products must receive regulatory approval before marketing owner or licensee can make, sell or import the chemical for due to legal requirements. For this reason, it is possible to any use without infringing the patent. These patents are very extend a patent term for up to five years in some countries. important for the pharmaceutical industry. There are also the Additionally, for new drugs, companies are obligated to patents to protect discoveries such as manufacturing methods confirm efficacy and safety for a certain period (re-examination and indications. period / data protection period) after launch. Once the In many countries including Japan, the U.S., and in Europe, reexamination period is over and the patent term has expired, patent terms last 20 years starting from the filing date of the other companies can manufacture and sell generics with the application. However, the effective patent term is frequently same active ingredient. Other Terminology (alphabetical order) Aberrant splicing (P21, 52) causing Alzheimer’s disease. Based on this theory, Aβ is a drug For the majority of eukaryotic genes, the area of the genome target for Alzheimer’s disease. that encodes protein information is divided up into two parts: exons, base sequences of DNA which encode amino acids, and Biomarker (P15, 40, 41, 53, 79, 95) introns, which do not. The process of removing the intron parts Biomarkers are biomolecules in blood, other body fluids, and from immature RNA transcripts (mRNA precursors, primary tissues that can be measured to assess normal or abnormal transcript) and combining the exon parts is called splicing. In this functionality or the presence or state of a disease. They are way, the mRNA precursor becomes mature mRNA. Aberrant also used to determine to what extent a body is reacting to a splicing is when there is an abnormality in the splicing process. treatment. Aberrant splicing results in loss and lower functionality of proteins and is being investigated in relation to various diseases. Breakthrough Therapy Designation (P14, 50, 52) The Breakthrough Therapy designation is an U.S. FDA Splicing program intended to expedite development and review of DNA Exon Intron Exon Intron Exon drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions. Preliminary clinical evidence demonstrating the drug may have substantial Transcription improvement on at least one clinically significant endpoint Precursor mRNA over available therapy is required for Breakthrough Therapy designation. Splicing Cerebrospinal fluid examination (P13, 41) Spliceosome consisted of splicing factor and RNA Inside the brain and spinal cord are spaces filled with transparent cerebrospinal fluid. A cerebrospinal fluid examination Mature mRNA checks this cerebrospinal fluid to determine if there is any Translation sickness or aberration in the brain or spinal cord. Protein Cytotoxic T-Cells (P50) A type of immune cell that targets cancer cells. Amyloid plaques (P43) Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) (P17, 42, 44, 45, 86, 92) Abnormal deposits of beta amyloid proteins in the brain. DLB is a degenerative form of dementia discovered in Japan Characteristically present in the brains of patients suffering from that is pathologically characterized by decreased neurons in Alzheimer’s disease. the brain and brainstem and the appearance of vast numbers of Lewy bodies. DLB is considered to be one of Japan’s three Angiogenesis (P49) major types of dementia, alongside Alzheimer's disease, and Tumor angiogenesis describes the growth of new blood vessels vascular dementia. In particular, cognitive fluctuations, visual which are necessary for tumor proliferation. This is caused by hallucinations and idiopathic parkinsonism considered to be angiogenic factors released by the tumor or nearby host cells. core symptoms of the disease. Antibody drugs (P41, 49, 52, 61) Driver gene mutation (P21) When a foreign substance (antigen) such as a pathogen invades Genes that play a direct role in the incidence and progression of the human body, the body produces antibodies which bond cancer to the foreign substance, detoxifying or eliminating it, and thus preventing disease. Antibody drugs are drugs which make use First-line (P50, 51, 52, 53, 78, 93) of this mechanism. Techniques such as gene recombination or Refers to the best drug firstly administered to treat a disease. cell cultivation are used to artificially produce antibodies, which If the patient’s condition does not improve with the first-line are then injected into the body to treat illnesses. treatment, or if there are heavy side effects, then the next drug, known as the second-line, is used. Beta amyloid (Amyloid beta, Aβ)/Aβ theory (P8, 13, 25, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 78, 92) Microsatellite Instability (MSI)/ Mismatch Repair (P50, 53) While Aβ exists within healthy brains, an excessive number of When DNA replicates, there are often errors in the base Aβ deposits are found within the brains of Alzheimer’s disease sequence of DNA (mismatches). If there is a defect in the patients. There is an Aβ theory (amyloid cascade hypothesis) ability to repair these mismatches, the damaged DNA results in which states that Aβ accumulates and forms senile plaques cells becoming cancerous. Microsatellites are short repeated (amyloid plaques) within the brain, killing off neurons, and thus sequences of DNA in which mismatches are very likely to 96 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix occur, causing mistakes in the number of iterations. This Small/middle/large molecule drug inability to repair mismatches in the microsatellites is known as (P41, 52, 93) microsatellite instability (MSI). Anti-PD-1 antibodies are generally A small molecule drug is a chemically synthesized drug with a more effective in patients with a high frequency of MSI and less low molecular weight of 1000 daltons or less. A middle molecule effective in other patients. is defined as between 1000 and 10000 daltons, and large macromolecule is defined as 10000 daltons or over. Molecular targeted drug (P53, 87, 93) A molecular targeted drug is a medicine developed for the Transcatheter arterial chemo-embolization (TACE) (P53) purpose of treating disease more effectively by targeting specific TACE is a therapy that selectively obstructs blood circulation proteins or genes on the surface of disease cells (cancer cells, to induce necrosis in hepatocellular carcinoma by injecting etc.), and inhibiting their function. chemotherapeutic agents as well as embolization material via catheter into the hepatic artery, the artery that supplies nutrient Neuron regeneration (P21) blood to the tumor. Neurological diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease are conditions associated with the loss of neurons in the brain. It Tau (P8, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 78) was thought that in general, once neurons are lost they do not Proteins mainly found in neurons in the central nervous systems regenerate. However, due to advances in science in recent or glial cells. A type of microtubule-associated protein. Tau years, academia and other companies are working on neural regulates the polymerization and stability of microtubules. regeneration therapy including the implantation of nerve cells. Abnormal aggregation and deposits of tau are thought to be Eisai is focused on astrocytes which are the most abundant a cause of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s cells in the cerebral cortex, and is advancing projects to bring disease. about next-generation treatments. Triple-negative breast cancer (P52, 93) Objective Response Rate (ORR) (P50) A type of breast cancer where the growth of the cancer is not The ratio of patients whose cancer regressed or disappeared supported by the hormones estrogen and progesterone, nor after treatment. Patients are divided into the following four by the presence of too many HER2 receptors. Triple negative categories based on the state of their cancer after the clinical refers to testing negative for all three. Breast cancer accounts trial: for 10-15% of all cancer cases. •C  R (Complete Response): Complete disappearance of tumor Tumor associated macrophages (TAM) (P50) •P  R (Partial Response): At least a 30% decrease in tumor In the cancer microenvironment, the activity of some size macrophages changes from anti-tumor to tumor promoting. •S  D (Stable Disease): No change in tumor size (meets neither These are known as TAM. PR nor PD conditions) When these TAMs accumulate near a tumor, they inhibit •P  D (Progressive Disease): At least a 20% relative increase cancer immunity including killer-T cells, and promote and a 5mm absolute increase in tumor size OR the angiogenesis in cancer cells. appearance of one or more new lesions Objective response rate is calculated with the following Tumor microenvironment (P21, 49, 52) equation: Cancer cells are surrounded by tissue known as stroma. ([CR patients + PR patients] / total number of treated patients) Present in the stroma are connective tissues including cells ×100 = ORR (%) for inflammation and immunity, blood vessels, lymph ducts In clinical studies, measuring objective response rate is one and collagen, creating a unique structure called the cancer method of investigating the efficiency of new cancer treatments. microenvironment. PET imaging (P13, 40, 41) Tyrosine kinase (P49, 51, 78, 87) Positron Emission Tomography (PET), also known as PET An enzyme capable of phosphorylating tyrosine, an amino imaging, enables the observation of the changes in a person’s acid which consists of proteins. Plays an important role in condition while minimizing the impact on the body by transmitting signals related to proliferation and division of cells. administering tiny amounts of chemicals that mark positrons Variations in genes can cause tyrosine kinase to become into the body. abnormally active, leading to abnormal proliferation of cells and diseases such as cancer. Primary endpoint (P41) The result or phenomenon used to objectively measure the effectivity of a treatment tested in a clinical trial. Examples include measuring the difference in mortality rate between the treatment group and the control group, tumor regression, improvement in Quality of Life (QoL), relief of symptoms, etc. What the primary endpoint will be is decided before the study begins. Screening (P38, 95) The method of searching a group of compounds (compound library) to find compounds that react to a drug target, such as a protein. Identified compounds serve as “seeds”, which are chemically modified into analogues. Among these, compounds which demonstrate both safety and efficacy will become candidates for clinical studies. 97 Eisai Integrated Report 2018 Status of Shares (As of March 31, 2018) Authorized (common stock) 1,100,000,000 shares Issued 296,566,949 shares (including 10,228,499 shares of treasury stock) Number of shareholders 60,948 Transfer Agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation ●Principal Shareholders Percentage held (Notes) Number of shares 1Numbers of shares are rounded down to the nearest thousand. Shareholders held (1,000) of all shareholder 2 Indicates the top 10 shareholders in terms of percentage of the total voting rights (%) number of outstanding shares (excluding treasury stock). Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 32,484 11.35 3 The 10,228,000 shares (3.45%) of treasury stock are not included in this table as they do not have voting rights. 4 Although the following Large Shareholding Report (revised report) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 28,872 10.09 was received before the end of the fiscal year, in cases in which it is impossible to make confirmation with the shareholder registry for the end JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385147 16,719 5.84 of the fiscal year, or in which the number of shares held is not ranked among the top 10, it is not included in the table. Further, the holding Nippon Life Insurance Company 12,281 4.29 percentage enclosed in parentheses is the percentage of the total number of outstanding shares (rounded down), including treasury stock. Saitama Resona Bank, Limited 7,300 2.55 (1) Including the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., 4 companies jointly held 16,113,000 shares (5.43%) as of July 13, 2015 (July 21, 2015, Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. as trustee for Mizuho Revised Report) Bank, Ltd. Retirement Benefit Trust Account re-entrusted 5,437 1.90 (2) Including the Wellington Management Company, LLP, 2 companies by Mizuho Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. jointly held 27,087,000 shares (9.13%) as of July 31, 2015 (August 7, 2015, Revised Report) STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT Treaty 505234 5,249 1.83 (3) Including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, 3 companies jointly held 14,926,000 shares (5.03%) as of April 15, 2016 (April 21, 2016, Large Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 4,574 1.59 Shareholding Report) (4) Including Mizuho Bank, Ltd., 2 companies jointly held 18,900,000 shares The Naito Foundation 4,207 1.47 (6.37%) as of October 14, 2016 (October 21, 2016, Large Shareholding Report) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) 3,805 1.33 (5) Vanguard Health Care Fund held 14,838,000 shares (5.00%) as of November 24, 2016 (December 15, 2016, Large Shareholding Report) Total 120,930 42.28 (6) Including BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd., 11 companies jointly held 18,308,000 shares (6.17%) as of August 15, 2017 (August 21, 2017, Large Shareholding Report) (7) Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. held 14,963,000 shares (5.05%) as of March 15, 2018 (March 22, 2018, Large Shareholding Report) ●Trends in Ratio by Shareholder Type （％） 0 20 40 60 80 100 FY2016 44.0 27.5 15.0 7.0 3.5 3.0 FY2017 44.6 27.6 14.6 7.1 3.4 2.6 ■Financial institutions (banks, etc.) ■Foreign entities, etc. ■Individuals, other ■Other companies ■Treasury stock ■Financial instruments traders (securities companies) ●Stock Price Trends (from April 1, 2013 to July 31, 2018) （％） ー Eisai’s stock price ー TOPIX ー TOPIX Pharmaceutical 300 Total Shareholder Return (TSR) (TSR is based on investment conducted at the closing price on March 31, 2018) 250 Holding period 1 year 5 years Eisai 20.5 84.0 TOPIX 15.9 83.6 200 TOPIX Pharmaceutical 15.7 82.6 Source : Bloomberg 150 100 50 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ( April 2 to July 31) High 4,675 yen 9,756 yen 9,024 yen 7,338 yen 7,148 yen 11,490 yen Low 3,600 yen 3,800 yen 6,633 yen 5,366 yen 5,402 yen 6,630 yen Closing price 4,018 yen 8,535 yen 6,770 yen 5,764 yen 6,781 yen 9,582 yen Note: The April 1, 2013, closing prices of Eisai’s stock price, and TOPIX respectively represent the 100 shown in the line graph. ＊Please refer to the Notice of Convocation of the 106th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders for the status of shares. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/index.html 98 Corporate Information Corporate Profile Selection for ESG Indices (As of March 31, 2018) As of August 2018 Corporate Name Eisai Co., Ltd. Date Founded December 6, 1941 Head Office Address 4-6-10, Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-8088, Japan THE INCLUSION OF Eisai Co., Ltd. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, Paid-in Capital TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A ¥44,986 million SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Eisai Co., Ltd. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS Number of Employees AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI 3,172 (Non-consolidated basis) INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 10,456 (Consolidated basis) Stock Exchange Listings Eisai common stock is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. (Securities Code Number: 4523) Date for Settlement of Accounts FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) confirms March 31 that Eisai has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied Annual Shareholders’ Meeting the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global The annual shareholders’ meeting is held in June. index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The Independent Public Accountants FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC investment funds and other products. Editor’s Note for Integrated Report 2018 A framed piece of Japanese calligraphy representing the phrase「天助自助者」(God helps those who help themselves) is on display in the conference hall on the 5th floor at Eisai headquarters. This is a Japanese translation of a concept described in “SelfHelp”, written by British author Samuel Smiles. It 2018. means that God will reach out a helping hand and In this integrated report, we made an effort to make bring happiness to those who are making efforts by a record of the aforementioned “innovation” and themselves without depending on others. As I gaze at “partnership”. The cover page was created based the framed calligraphy only half-convinced, I thought on these two key words. Additionally, we especially “the words are excellent, but is ‘a helping hand from enhanced the descriptions of our philosophy and God’ realistic?” However, I really felt that there was drug creation activities, as well as origins of Eisai’s “a helping hand from God”, when the partnership for ability of creating innovation. Moreover, we added anticancer agent Lenvima® was concluded with Merck SWOT analyses to enhance explanations of not only & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. in March 2018. I strengths and opportunities but also weaknesses and felt proud of our employees who continued their effort threats. to create “innovation” that contributes to patients Going forward, we will continue with efforts to while facing a tough business environment. I was even improve the quality of the report, based on the more proud of Eisai’s ability to create innovation when valuable opinions we receive through engagement favorable top-line results from the final analysis at 18 with stakeholders. months of the Phase Ⅱ study on anti-beta amyloid protofibril antibody BAN2401 were announced in July (Chief Editor of Integrated Report 2018) Investor Relations For further Eisai Co., Ltd. information 4-6-10, Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-8088, Japan TEL: 81-3-3817-3016 FAX: 81-3-3811-6032 99 Eisai Integrated Report 2018
