MASTER COMPONENTS PVT. LTD. PROCESS MANUAL Document No.: PR-HR-007 Page : 1 of 3 Department: Human Resource Issue No./ Rev. No.: 5/0 Date: 01.04.2017 Title of Procedure: Anti Bribery & Corruption Policy Sr. Step to be followed Responsibily Document / No. Record 1 POLICY STATEMENT It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to Bribery and Corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and 1.1 with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. We will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and 1.2 corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. We remain bound by local and national laws. 2.0 SCOPE This policy applies to all Employees and relevant Third Parties of 2.1 the Company and shall be communicated to them at the outset of our business relationship and as appropriate thereafter. This policy applies in all countries or territories where the Company operates. Where local customs, standards, laws or other local policies apply that are stricter than the provision of this policy, the 2.2 stricter rules must be complied with. However, if this policy stipulates stricter rules than local customs, standards, laws or other local policies, the stricter provisions of this policy shall apply. 3.0 GIFTS, INVITATIONS & HOSPITALITY This policy does not prohibit normal and appropriate hospitality 3.1 (given and received) to or from Third Parties. You are prohibited from accepting a gift or giving a gift to a third 3.2 party in the following situations: a) it is made with the intention of influencing a Third Party to obtain or retain business, to gain a business advantage, or to reward the provision or retention of business or a business advantage, or in explicit or implicit exchange for favours or benefits b) it is given in your name and not in the name of the Company; c) it includes cash or a cash equivalent (such as gift certificates or vouchers); d) it is of an inappropriate type and value and given at an inappropriate time (e.g. during a tender process); and e) it is given secretly and not openly. We appreciate that the practice of giving business gifts varies between countries and regions and what may be normal and acceptable in one region may not be in another. The test to be 3.3 applied is whether in all the circumstances the gift or hospitality is reasonable, justifiable and is proportionate. The intention behind the gift should always be considered. Prepared by: Approved by: Issued by: Master copy stamp: Control copy stamp: MASTER COMPONENTS PVT. LTD. PROCESS MANUAL Document No.: PR-HR-007 Page : 2 of 3 Department: Human Resource Issue No./ Rev. No.: 5/0 Date: 01.04.2017 Title of Procedure: Anti Bribery & Corruption Policy Sr. Step to be followed Responsibily Document / No. Record 4.0 FACILITATION PAYMENTS & KICKBACKS In many jurisdictions, making Facilitation Payments is illegal. We 4.1 do not make, and will not accept, Facilitation Payments or Kickbacks of any kind anywhere in the world. Where the facilitation payment is being extorted or you are being coerced to pay it and your safety or liberty is under threat or you 4.2 feel you have no alternative but to pay for personal or family peace of mind, then pay the Facilitation Payment and report this to your line manager as soon as possible 5.0 YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES 5.1 It is not acceptable for you (or someone on your behalf) to: a) give, promise to give, or offer, a payment, gift or hospitality with the expectation or hope that a business advantage will be received, or to reward a business advantage already given; b) give, promise to give, or offer, a payment, gift or hospitality to aP routine procedure; c) accept payment from a Third Party that you know or suspect is offered with the expectation that it will obtain a business advantage for them d) accept a gift or hospitality from a Third Party if you know or suspect that it is offered or provided with an expectation that a business advantage will be provided by us in return e) threaten or retaliate against another Employee who has refused to commit a bribery offence or who has raised concerns under this policy; or f) engage in any activity that might lead to a breach of this policy or perceived breach of this policy. It is your responsibility to ensure that all accounts, invoices, memoranda and other documents and records relating to dealings 5.2 with Third Parties, such as clients, suppliers and business contacts, should be prepared and maintained with strict accuracy and You must declare and keep a written record of all Gifts, Invitations 5.3 & Hospitality according to Company practice accepted or offered, which will be subject to managerial review. You must ensure all expense claims relating to Gifts, Invitations & Hospitality or expenses incurred to Third Parties are submitted in 5.4 record the reason for the expenditure The prevention, detection and reporting of any form of Bribery & Corruption are the responsibility of all Employees. You must notify 5.5 HR Head as soon as possible if you are offered a bribe, are asked to make one, suspect that this may happen in the future, or believe that you are a victim of another form of unlawful activity Prepared by: Approved by: Issued by: Master copy stamp: Control copy stamp: MASTER COMPONENTS PVT. LTD. PROCESS MANUAL Document No.: PR-HR-007 Page : 3 of 3 Department: Human Resource Issue No./ Rev. No.: 5/0 Date: 01.04.2017 Title of Procedure: Anti Bribery & Corruption Policy Sr. Step to be followed Responsibily Document / No. Record All Employees have the responsibility to read, understand and 5.6 comply with this policy. You should at all times, avoid any activity that might lead to, or suggest, a breach of this policy Any Employee who breaches this policy will face disciplinary action, 5.7 which could result in dismissal for gross misconduct 5.8 Invitations & Hospitality policy, Conflicts of Interest policy and Code of Ethics Employees are encouraged to raise concerns about any instance, or 5.9 suspicion, of malpractice at the earliest possible stage through their line manager or other available reporting mechanisms. 6.0 PROTECTION Employees who refuse to take part in bribery or corruption, or report in good faith under this policy their suspicion that an actual or potential bribery or other corruption offence has taken place or may take place in the future will be protected from detrimental treatment/retaliation. Detrimental treatment includes dismissal, disciplinary action, threats or other unfavorable treatment connected with raising a concern. 7.0 GOVERNANCE The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring this 7.1 policy complies with our legal and ethical obligations, and that all those under our control comply with it HR Head has primary and day-to-day responsibility for implementing this policy and for monitoring its use and effectiveness. Management at all levels are responsible for 7.2 ensuring those reporting to them are made aware of and understand this policy and are given adequate and regular training on it. This training shall also be given to Intermediaries. 8.0 MONITORING AND REVIEW The Company will establish and put in place appropriate performance measures and reporting systems to monitor 8.1 performance against metrics and compliance with the relevant policies, procedures and controls HR Head will monitor the effectiveness and review the implementation of this policy, regularly considering its suitability, 8.2 adequacy and effectiveness. Any improvements identified will be made as soon as possible Internal control systems and procedures will be subject to regular 8.3 audits to provide assurance that they are effective. HR Head will report to the CEO at least annually on the application of this policy Prepared by: Approved by: Issued by: Master copy stamp: Control copy stamp:
