Communication on Progress UN Global Compact 2017 Illustration: Mir Content GC Rieber Enhancing Values Letter from the CEO............................... 4 About GC Rieber......................................................................................... 6 Our CSR Framework................................................................................... 7 Environment................................................................................................ 10 Human and Labor Rights............................................................................ 12 Anti-corruption............................................................................................. 13 The GC Rieber Funds................................................................................. 14 Photo: Thomas Morel / Alf Gundersen 3 GC Rieber – Enhancing Values 2017 was a special year for the Rieber family. Today this promise is just as important as ever. This year marked the 200-year anniversary of our The intersection between our community, business ancestors’ arrival in Norway. partners, employees and investors must be well balanced if we are to survive as a company in The arrival was by no means planned. As a twist the long run. CSR is not only our duty, it is a of faith, a sailing vessel carrying more than 500 prerequisite for success. German passengers heading for “the new world” was caught in a storm and blown ashore on the In GC Rieber, we believe that effective CSR is not island of Herdla, west of Bergen, Norway. Among the result of a single person in the organization, the castaways were my great great grandparents, it is the result of the organization as a whole. As a and by that, the prelude to the GC Rieber consequence, effective good CSR management is company history had begun. not only instructing the employees to do the right thing, but to foster an organizational culture where Originating from a small town in rural Germany, CSR is the baseline. my ancestors was brought up in a community characterized by modesty and care for one other But as our business is becoming global, the and one’s hometown. This was again reflected definition of our community also changes. And so in their personal values, and passed on to their does the challenges we are facing. Today, “caring children. When their grandson, G.C. Rieber, in for our hometown” equals caring for the world we 1879 started the company which still carries his are living in. We have to lift our eyes and address name, his care for their local community became challenges which may seem very distant from our an integral part of the company’s backbone, and everyday life. reflected in his way of doing business. As a member of the UN Global Compact we Today, 200 years later, the world is a very are, together with more than 9.600 companies, different place than it was when my family using our business to address these international settled on the west coast of Norway. It has challenges. The UN Global Compact and the become “smaller”. It is becoming ever more Sustainable Development Goals are providing digitalized. And our business environment is in us good tools to do this. We are grateful for this constant change. Through this time, GC Rieber guidance when turning our promise into actions, has evolved as a company. We have changed our carrying on the family values and showing that we course. Several times. We have adapted to new care for our “global hometown”. opportunities – and challenges. But while we might have changed our means of doing business, we have not changed the reason why we are doing it. GC Rieber has made a promise. “Utvikler verdier” Sincerely yours, it says in Norwegian. “Enhancing values” might serve as an English translation. There is a duplicity in this promise. While it on one hand Paul-Chr. Rieber refers to the creation of economic value, it equally CEO refers to the reinforcement of essential human GC Rieber AS values. 4 Photo: Øyvind Ganesh About GC Rieber Our employees At the end of 2017, the GC Rieber group consisted of approximately 500 employees allocated to five business areas: GC Rieber Shipping ASA GC Rieber Shipping operates within the subsea, marine seismic and ice/support segments. GC Rieber Compact AS GC Rieber Compact including Compact India Pvt. Ltd. and GC Rieber Compact South Africa (Pty) Ltd. GC Rieber Compact develops and produces life-saving, ready-to-use food products. GC Rieber Oils AS GC Rieber Oils is a supplier of concentrated Omega-3 fatty acids to the supplements industry. GC Rieber Salt AS GC Rieber Salt delivers salts and minerals across the Nordic region. GC Rieber Chemicals AS is a 100% owned subsidiary of GC Rieber Salt, and a supplier of a variety of chemicals for industrial use. GC Rieber Eiendom AS GC Rieber Eiendom develops and manages urban business premises in Bergen (Norway). The countries in which we operate Besides Norway, our offices and production sites are located in the following countries: Denmark, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Australia, Russia, India, South Africa and Tunisia. 6 Our CSR Framework Company CSR Functions Sustainability in our supply chain Corporate Social Responsibility activities in each As a group with a diverse product range and group company are supported and monitored by international presence, GC Rieber has a vast a central Group CSR Manager reporting to the range of suppliers from all over the world. Good Group CEO and Board of Directors. In addition, supplier-control and confidence is of outmost all GC Rieber Companies are reporting to their importance. Company board respectively. In order to make our position on CSR and Since 2016, each group company has their own sustainability clear to our business partners, we CSR Coordinator to support the implementation have created a Code of Conduct (CoC) that we of Group policies and guidelines, coordinate ask them to sign. GC Rieber will, when selecting the company CSR strategy and action plan. In suppliers and prior to making investment addition, the CSR coordinator act as an advisor for decisions, consider compliance with this CoC as company leaders and employees. part of our general assessment. The CoC provides a framework for what we consider to be the In 2017 the role of the CSR-coordinators where minimum standard for professional conduct. further strengthened by an official mandate signed by the Group CEO. In addition, Group companies conduct regular audits of their suppliers and partners either The CSR coordinator role contributes to better directly or through recognized agencies. We integration of sustainability considerations into also use third-party assessment form to assess the business strategies of the Group companies, sustainability risks with a potential business and ensures alignment between Group and partner in cases where a signed CoC may be company CSR goals. difficult to obtain in due time. To further strengthen our supplier control and Internal Polices and guidelines follow-up, we have in 2017 conducted a status Based on our strong business principles and evaluation of our established routines for supplier core values, GC Rieber has developed internal handling and Code of Conduct. This will serve as guidelines for ethics and CSR that we expect all the foundation for evaluations and adjustments GC Rieber employees to adhere to. The guidelines in our routines and documentation. This is to be contain general principles for best practice carried out in 2018. and professional conduct, and represent the fundament of our core beliefs and our corporate In 2017 the GC Rieber board decided that an CSRculture. investment analysis is to be conducted ahead of all major investments carried out by companies within the GC Rieber Group. Based upon this, we are in the process of developing a GC Rieber Group template for CSR investments which will address all four areas described in the UN Global Compact. Photo: GC Rieber Shipping 7 CSR Strategy, action plans and reporting Our CSR policy is an integral part of our organization and reflects our business goals. At GC Rieber, we involve and engage all parts of the organization in CSR work. Each business area in the GC Rieber Group identifies their own sustainability goals and turns them into action plans which are communicated internally and externally, and monitored continuously. CSR reports are presented and discussed in company and group Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure top-level commitment. Connecting CSR In 2017 we started an internal project “Connecting CSR” to highlight good CSRinitiatives across the different companies. Every two weeks, at a minimum, a CSR-related article is posted on the GC Rieber intranet for all employees to read. The articles have been well received among our employees and is intended to serve both as inspiration and a reminder of keeping CSR “top of mind” every day. Training Dilemma training and information meetings are important elements in building knowledge and awareness around important CSR topics in our organization. In 2016 we achieved our aim for all employees of the GC Rieber Group to complete an e-learning course on anticorruption which we had developed ourselves. In 2017 the course was issued to, and conducted by, all new employees. In addition, the course has been integrated as a mandatory training routine when on-boarding new employees in the GC Rieber Group. Illustration: Mir Environment Green operations The green operations initiative was introduced by GC Rieber Shipping in 2016, with the goal to run 10% of all transits and Dynamic Positioning (DP) Operations with fuel efficiency measures. The goal is to reduce CO2, NOx and Sox emission from the vessels by implementing new energy efficiency initiatives. By the end of 2017 GC Rieber Shipping had surpassed their original goal with a total of 22% of operations carried out in green mode. GC Rieber shipping has also launched an initiative to reduce local CO2 emission in Bergen by use of more environmentally friendly forms of transportation to and from the office. The goal has been that 25% of all travels should be green travels. In 2017 the number of green travels by shore employees was 31%. In addition, the following activities were carried out by GC Rieber Shipping: • Increased frequency of propeller cleansing • At least one hull biannually on each vessel • Instalment of upgraded systems and equipment on two vessels 10 Photo: Odd Arne Arnesen / GC Rieber Shipping A sustainable environment Conscious Choices makes a large for everyone to enjoy difference In 2017 GC Rieber Eiendom has carried out Making the right decisions yields benefit in a wide range of projects, transferring their the long run. This is a fact that all GC Rieber ambitious sustainability targets into action. Companies has experienced. Ranging for the Creating a clean environment where the active selection of larger shipments for GC local community can thrive, while being in Rieber Salt thus reducing the environmental the national forefront of sustainable urban impact, to the conversion of by-products into development, has become a trademark for this energy by GC Rieber Oils. These activities local real estate developer. continue to improve the environment, year after year. Among the many activities carried out by Other activities carried out by the GC GC Rieber Eiendom in 2017 Rieber Group: • Removal of environmental toxins • Sourcing exclusively from and heavy metals in the fjord trustworthy markets and partners adjoining the Marineholmen area to provide full traceability • Construction of a Breeam Excellent (GC Rieber Oils) certified building the second in the • Establishment of energy GC Rieber portfolio management system • Decision to create another Breeam (GC Rieber Oils) Excellent certified building. This • Creating a green belt outside office building will be in solid wood, premises in India which leaves a significantly lower (GC Rieber Compact) carbon footprint than traditional • Participation in cleaning buildings campaigns City and Shoreline • Conducted pilot study on certifying (GC Rieber Salt) existing buildings according to the • Member of the environmental Breeam In Use standard. organization “Grønt Punkt” • Active work to increase (GC Rieber Salt) knowledgebase about solar panels on office buildings • Creation of a public city-beach on Marineholmen, for everyone to enjoy 11 Human and Labor Rights Increasing employee welfare and gender equality At GC Rieber Compact, 2017 has been a year with a large focus on labor rights, gender equality and staff satisfaction. To facilitate gender equality among the workers, the company has established a Crèche, a form of day-care, for the children of the employees. Bringing their children to work enables workers to return to work while still caring for their little ones. The company has also introduced 15 days parental leave for male employees as this is not covered by Indian law. In addition, the company has a large focus on the worker’s families and has distributed stationary items to all team workers children in order to promote education. Other human and labor rights activities carried out in GC Rieber: • Cultural Insight Training in all geographical locations (GC Rieber Compact) • Revision of Whistle Blower Policy and routines (All GC Rieber Companies) • Hosting apprentices and contributing to education (GC Rieber Oils) • Supplier control through Code of Conduct and third-party analysis (All GC Rieber Companies) • CSR training for procurement function (GC Rieber Compact) 12 Photo: GC Rieber Compact Anti-corruption Photo: Marius Beck Dahle Photo: GC Rieber Shipping Increased awareness fosters positive actions Since 2016 Anti-Corruption has been a main In 2017 all new employees since 2016 had to focus area in GC Rieber. We believe that conduct the online course. In addition, we have the best method for preventing corruption integrated this in our onboarding procedures. is to foster a company culture where our employees are able to identify situations As a tool to support us in our anti-corruption where corruption may occur, in addition to activities, GC Rieber has developed “we say having the skillset to act correctly if they are no to corruption” cards and posters. These are to encounter such a situation. animated illustrations that can easily be understood independent of language and reading-ability. Through the development of our online course in 2016, we have informed all Introduced in 2016, the cards and posters are still employees about what can be defined as popular among the employees and are hanging corruption, the content of our GC Rieber onboard all GC Rieber Shipping’s vessels. Anti-Corruption policy, Norwegian and international corruption legislation, and practical examples. 13 The GC Rieber Foundations The GC Rieber Foundations comprise six charitable foundations and manage philanthropic and charitable contributions to benevolent and social initiatives and a wide array of culture and science projects in Norway and abroad. The Foundations hold more than 20% ownership in the GC Rieber Group. Consequently, a significant part of the Group’s value creation finds its way into social investments through the GC Rieber Foundations. This contribution means a lot to employees and shareholders of GC Rieber and motivates us to go the extra mile every day. Visit the Foundation’s own website for more information: http://www.gcrieber-fondene.no/english-summary/ 14 Photo: GC Rieber Funds Contact For further information about our sustainability work, please contact our Group responsible for CSR Silje Langemyr Phone (+47) 941 34 468 or visit our website www.gcrieber.com / GC RIEBER AS / June 2018 Photo: GC Rieber Eiendom
