UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Statement of continuing support January 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Statement of continuing support Wasserman have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2008, and continue to support its principles through our sustainability program. We continue to support the ten UN Global Compact Principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption across our sphere of influence. We do so through our sustainability program, which is at the heart of our business strategy. We recognise the opportunity the principles of the UN Global Compact presents to our business, to make a more focused contribution to sustainable development. We are therefore pleased to reaffirm Wasserman’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. For nearly ten years these principles have helped us to shape our approach to sustainable business. In this Communication on Progress we signpost our most upto-date disclosures on our policies and performance on the important issues enshrined in the UN Global Compact Principles. Wasserman remains committed to making progress on each of these areas, for the benefit of our employees, customers, suppliers, stakeholders and wider society. Principle Definition Policies Progress Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses Wasserman Values, Our company training should support Wasserman Supplier Code programmes reinforce a and respect the of Conduct & our Annual culture that is grounded in protection of Modern Slavery Statement our values, and recognizes the internationally of compliance key elements of the UN Global proclaimed human Compact Principles rights. We want to recognize and Principle 2 Make sure that they reward people for doing the are not complicit right thing. Every employee’s in human rights conduct during the year is abuses. taken into account during their performance appraisal. During 2017 we carried out our first Modern Slavery supply chain audits. Labor Principle 3 Businesses should Wasserman Values, We consult with employee uphold the freedom Wasserman Supplier Code representative bodies. It is of association of Conduct, our Annual our policy to maintain welland the effective Modern Slavery, Human developed communications recognition of the Resources Policies in and consultation programmes right to collective countries of operation with all employees and there bargaining and Employee Handbooks have never been any disruptions and Contracts that are to our operations from labour Principle 4 The elimination of also aligned with local disputes. all forms of forced regulation, laws and and compulsory Wasserman is committed to practice. labor. building a values-driven high performance culture where Principle 5 The effective all employees are valued, abolition of child respected and where their labor. opinions count. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle Definition Policies Progress Environment Principle 7 Businesses ISO 14001 Environmental Reducing global carbon dioxide should support Manual, Sustainability Risk emissions is a critical challenge a precautionary Policies & Operational for society. We see the potential approach to Sustainability Goals for the events sector to drive environmental forward the Corporate Agenda We have a goal to reduce challenges for reducing Carbon Emissions. In our per employee annual 2017 welaunched our sustainable Priniciple 8 Undertake carbon emissions operational goals. The goals initiatives to We have implemented cover the full range of our promote greater plans to cut our natural operations, including supply environmental resource use and run our chain, energy, waste, carbon, responsibility. operations more efficiently. paper, travel and sustainability Principle 9 Encourage the engagement. Wasserman’s ISO 14001 development Environmental Manual and diffusion of states that sustainability environmentally means building our friendly business for the long technologies. term by balancing social, environmental and economic considerations in the decisions we make. We have implemented a number of environmental targets within our Supplier Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should Supplier Code of During 2016, Wasserman rolled work against Conduct, ABC Training out an e-learning mandatory corruption in all its Programs, ABC Policy & training course for all staff that forms, including Whistleblowing Policy provides a comprehensive level extortion and of knowledge on Anti Bribery & bribery. Corruption Wasserman promote of a culture of regular, open discussions between staff and management. Suppliers are audited against their own controls that cover Anti Bribery & Corruption Throughout this report, we will highlight areas that support our communication on progress by using the UN Global Compact support logo.
