Al Sulaiti Law Firm 2017 Communication on Progress Reporting Period: August 2016 November 2017 To our stakeholders: Al Sulaiti Law Firm reafﬁrms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact pillars of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. The pillars are incorporated in our business environment and Culture; alongside our commitment to an open and diverse Law Firm. In this 2017 Communication on Progress, we describe to our clients, our employees and the communities we inﬂuence the actions that we undertake to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Mubarak A. Al Sulaiti Chairman Al Sulaiti Law Firm OUR MISSION & VALUES OUR MISSION & VALUES Al-Sulaiti Law Firm provides various legal services to foreign and local clients. Our clients are private and public sectors, we deal with reputable governmental organizations and international institutions. Al-Sulaiti Law Firm prides itself in offering a professional service in several languages, such as Arabic, English, French and Italian. We are committing to serving and improving our community and the environment. Our responsibilities towards the rule of law and the legal profession enrich our corporate responsibilities. There is always a strong willingness and inspiration to improve, accept and encourage positive changes in our ﬁrm . Part of what we do is support our clients by showing interest in their aims and goals. Our relationships with our clients are a vital part of our success, we show interest in our clients to deliver a clear understanding of the nature of their roles and this enables us to achieve better results and higher client satisfaction rates. Giving back to our community is a vital part of what we do. The community we are part of, work in and live in is also part of our responsibilities. This analysis will demonstrate what we do to give back to the community, respect and care for our environment and support the importance of education. Mission Our core aim is to deliver outstanding, professional and trustworthy services. Strengthening our relationships with our clients is a core part of our development, keeping you at the center of all that we accomplish is very important to us . Values Honesty and Integrity: Of our most important values are honesty and integrity. We believe that a long-term relationship should begin with being honest. Excellence: Our effort is reﬂected in the work we produce. We make sure that we provide our clients with excellent and quality work . Teamwork: We believe that working together creates a higher level of quality. We encourage teamwork at our ﬁrm to promote creativity, passion and energy . Accountable and Transparent: By being transparent and accountable, we can ensure that our client gets the maximum level of service that is clear and worthy. Diversity: Bridging cultures is our moto. We believe in diversity in the workplace and try to encourage different cultures to our ﬁrm . Why is Corporate Social Responsibility Important to Us ? Our target is to do more than just be a law ﬁrm; we have pledged to have more involvement, to be more nuanced and sophisticated in our approach. We want to ﬁnd the link between the principles and our activities whilst strengthening our relationships with one another, our community and our clients who are organizations part of the community we live in. Of course, this is just the beginning, our membership to the UNGC started on August 2016 and we have yet much more to do. Our next steps as the ﬁrst Qatari Law Firm to pledge to the principles is to develop a more systematic approach to asserting our actual and potential impacts, ensuring effective change . A Responsible Business Economically we follow and respect principles 3-6 and 10 of the UNGC . To be a responsible sustainable business we have to start from within and expand development to enhance effective change A Clear Understanding The most important part of our success is making sure that our clients understand the processes that occur in order to satisfy them and accomplish the desired results. Al Sulaiti Law Firm has taken the initiative to improve the level of communications between our team and our clients. Strengthening our relationship with our clients requires communication. One of the vital characteristics to be a successful lawyer is having the ability to communicate effectively and conﬁdently to build a relationship with the client in order to attend to their needs. Communicating directly with our clients and taking out the time to explain step by step the processes that will take place, explaining the law and rules that involves and the results the clients may expect . Making sure our clients understand the legal process that involves their case is a part of our improvement strategy. To accomplish this is to accomplish continuous improvement and higher client satisfaction rates. Based on our experiences so far with communication development we are positive that continuously improving this part of the process will have a positive impact on us and our clients. Understanding in depth the process that we take as lawyers to achieve the results you desire is a vital part of strengthening our bond with our clients . Improvement The legal industry like many others also contains problem areas that may need improvement or effective change to produce outstanding results and satisfaction from our clients. The area of law is a very sensitive one that requires a lot of hard work, time and effort. In law there is no standard application for all of the cases we are presented with there are a lot of factors that differentiate the process. Each case needs a certain amount of time, effort and high end level of accuracy and dedication . In every process there are advantages and problems that are labeled as disadvantages highlighting these disadvantages is a challenge and a systematic process that requires attention and a solid improvement structure . We want to build and maintain stronger client/lawyer relationships and our client’s collaboration in this process is a vital asset. Your contentment and satisfaction are some of our main goals. Constantly Improving Our Clients deserve to know the foundation we are creating for improvement. As part of this we have decided to effectively communicate and inform you what we have been working on. Analytical Criticism In June our whole team held a meeting that is performed annually to produce analytical criticisms about our performance as a team. To improve and organize the process we have designed a new program that is speciﬁcally tailored for our team by a group of experts that we have worked with side by side, it helps organize our work, maintain efﬁcient planning and time management. This program was speciﬁcally tailored for our clients, upgrading our services for our clients beneﬁt is something we are willing to continuously do. We have held training days for all of our team to familiarize themselves with this process as part of the training we highlighted the different challenges each team faces on a daily basis and tried to customize this new program to serve every team’s individual needs . At the end of every term we come together as one team and critically analyze our development strategies, this is essential to our improvement process. Working as a team makes this process easier as we are able to assess different methods, new ideas and approaches we can learn to take, new challenges we can begin to tackle as a team. One of our strategic priorities is to have the best work ethic and the best team that will continue holding value to our ﬁrm, diversity and inclusion are attributes essential to our success. Increas. ing effectiveness in being a closer work unit is our essential priority, being fair working as one team and encouraging development are assets we are willing to grow. As a participant in the UNGC we have to respect major parts of our principles that involve labor within our business. Pro Bono As lawyers, we care passionately about improving our society and always giving back to our community for the public good. We represent several clients pro bono and have reached out to Qatar University: Law School to also help aspiring law students perform better and learn the importance of Pro Bono activities for their futures in the legal world. No distinction is made between pro bono clients and other clients in working hours; we respect and treat all our clients fairly whilst ensuring that they are provided with the best legal services. We are proud to announce that Al Sulaiti Law Firm delivers pro bono services in many areas of the Qatari law. Our Pro Bono work is designed to use the skills, expertise and time of our employees and contributors to address relative economic and social issues. We organize our Pro bono work around two themes JUSTICE EDUCATION Justice JUSTICE AFIF We are in agreement with AFIF; we accept their cases and legal consultations pro bono. We are proud to announce this partnership as one of our aims is contributing to society and having a positive impact. AFIF aims to help inspiring entrepreneurs by giving them a foundation. They have skilled employees and counselors in that help direct people in the right direction. The ﬁrst phase of the Al Asmakh Finance Initiative Fund (AFIF) was launched by Qatar Charity and the Social Development Center, member of Qatar foundation and the fund is ﬁnanced by businessman; Ibrahim Hassan Al Asmakh AL SUM w AL BUKM This initiative was started to help those who are incapable of representing themselves in front of court; hearing impaired individuals who require the attention and understanding of someone who can relate to their ways of communication. That is why we have collaborated with organizations that support these individuals and have offered our legal help and support; probono. THE “JUNIOR LAWYER This programme is set for primary and Secondary school students [High School Students]. The purpose of this program is to introduce Primary students and high school students that are graduating and making a career choice to the legal world here in Qatar. To help the students decide if this is the career path for them or interest those students who are yet confused about which path they wish to take at university. It is a 3-5 day program where the students are introduced to our legal team, gain an insight on the life of a lawyer, visit the courts and meet our Chairman Mr. Mubarak Bin Abdullah Al Sulaiti . We have launched this programme in 2015 as stated above for primary school children in which a student was very unique and has inspired us to continue in this programme to beneﬁt and encourage our future generations. A Qatari primary school student was ﬂuent in Arabic, English and French it was a different experience for both the student and the ﬁrm. She was able to bond with the Head of our International Department, Mr. Mathieu Faupin who is a French national. It was an enlightening experience for the student and for our team. IT IS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE TO HELP INSPIRE AND ENCOURAGE STUDENTS, ESPECIALLY AT THIS STAGE THAT IS WHY I INTRODUCED ‘THE LITTLE LAWYER PROGRAMME AS PART OF OUR RESPONSIBILITY Mr. Mubarak Al Sulaiti Chairman Education EDUCATION Qatar University: Law Clinic Education is very important to us and we support the enhancement of Legal education and success. “As part of its corporate social responsibility policy, the Al-Sulaiti Law Firm provides pro bono legal services to the Law Clinic that has recently been established at Qatar University College of Law under the leadership of Dean Mohammed AlKhulaiﬁ. The Law Clinic receives real life cases from clients, especially the vulnerable, that students study, discuss and decide whether they warrant legal representation. Dr. Mohamed Y. Mattar, Clinical Professor of Law and Director of the Law Clinic welcomes the support of AlSulaiti Law Firm in taking these cases to courts and winning, thus assisting us in realizing the three pillars of clinical legal education, namely knowledge, skills and values.” To honor its mission towards the legal profession, the Law Firm regularly accepts law graduates to complete their two-year training period and obtain their license to practice law. Al Sulaiti Law Firm and UNGC Al Sulaiti Law Firm has been recognized as an active member of the United Nations global compact initiative since August 2016, making it the ﬁrst and only Law Firm in Qatar to pledge to the UNGC 10 principles in the areas of human rights, Labor, environment, and anti-corruption. To run a successful business we must assure that our lawyers are taken care of and that all of members of Al Sulaiti Law ﬁrm are treated with equal respect. Our work ethic is constantly developing, we are accommodating change to our daily practice, and with continuous board meetings and ﬁrm meetings we are strengthening the bond between one another. We have decided to embark on this journey with the UNGC to strengthen our CSR Policy and initiative. We have a great responsibility towards our community, our youth the environment and holding a responsible business. In the following report, you will ﬁnd out more about Al Sulaiti Law Firm’s adherence to the UNGC’s 10 Principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ;and Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuses On the 30th of August 2016 Al Sulaiti Law Firm issued its human rights policy bringing together all other policies related to equal employment, discrimination, underage workers under one pillar Our human rights policy Al Sulaiti Law Firm respects the International Human Rights Principle aimed at promoting and protecting human rights, including the United Nations Declarations of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and we are an active participant to the United Nations Global Compact Through our people and client experience, we as a ﬁrm are dedicated in upholding human rights and to creating an inclusive working environment. In a fast paced, changing world we are committed to making sure all ﬁrm policies continue to be ﬁt for purpose, are inclusive and are aligned to best practice and compliant with regulation and law. Our Shared Enterprise culture provides us with the opportunity to continually explore new ideas and ﬁrm wide goals together, allowing us to continually review and develop the practices processes and policies we have in place, ensuring the ﬁrm’s ongoing support and commitment to our people in relation to human rights. At Al Sulaiti Law Firm, we are dedicated to promoting and upholding human rights to create an inclusive and fair working environment. Reacting to the dynamic world, we are committed to making sure that our Firm’s Human Rights Policy ﬁts and is aligned to the regulation and law. As a law ﬁrm, we understand the importance of a healthy working environment that enables our employees to be feel comfortable and at ease hence, we take our workspace atmosphere very seriously. We promote cultural diversity in the ofﬁce by recruiting people of different race, nationality, gender, religion, age and disability thus making Al Sulaiti a law ﬁrm that respects cultural diversity. The professional working environment We provide our employees with a professional structured working environment where they are provided with clear instructions and guidelines. Communication tools such as feedback and experience based instructions are also provided to the employee to make the job process efﬁcient and effective avoiding the consequences of miscommunication. Physical working environment Al Sulaiti Law Firm complies with the rules, guidelines, and standards for a safe working environment that The Ministry of Environment condemns on all employers to have We have adedicated staff department that ensures the ofﬁce is in a clean state at all times. Our ﬁrm believes that clean air and sunlight is essential to stay healthy and we make sure that all our employees get the right amount of daily air and sun nutrition. Mental working environment Al Sulaiti Law ﬁrm does not tolerate any harassment or stereotype against any colleague or employee. Hence, we take it very seriously to make sure that we do not accept this kind of behavior at our ofﬁces and if someone is exposed to such behavior, it is their responsibility to report this matter to the Human Resources department or even to upper management. LABOUR Al Sulaiti Law Firm promotes and supports the United Nations Global Compact Principle; Labour. At our ﬁrm we believe in cultural diversity in the ofﬁce thus we …. We are committed to international best practices in regards to hiring, employment mobility and employee progression. The ﬁrm recognizes that it is responsible for the health and safety of its people whether on site or carrying out business off site. It is the ﬁrm’s responsibility to review and update its policy as to reﬂect any changes in the Qatar Law and Legislation. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation A Healthy and Safe Work Environment The ﬁrm understands and takes full account for maintaining a healthy and safe working environment for its employees. Al Sulaiti complies with all safety and health requirements implied by the Qatari law. The ﬁrm makes sure that staff is aware of their responsibilities in terms of health and safety provided that they are given sufﬁcient information and instruction to allow them to carry our their responsibilities effectively. Suggestion Surveys Employees are given the freedom of speech at Al Sulaiti Law Firm to suggest any changes they would like to see and why they think so. In 2018 Al Sulaiti Law Firm will make the employee satisfaction survery ofﬁcial and will distribute it every term to all department. These surveys that are designed to get a glimpse of employee satisfaction, engagement and morale. Newsletter Al Sulaiti Law Firm’s prime responsibilities is to spread awareness and news that will help employees in their daily work activities and enlighten them on different topics. The ﬁrm encourages the participation of its employees in workshops, seminars and conferences because the world is so dynamic that we need to follow up to stay up to date with everything. These training events are also a key networking tool, which is an essential part of our job as lawyers. Education Above Allv Al Sulaiti Law Firm and Education Above All have collaborated towards a good cause. The ﬁrm organized for a charity gala on July 2017, during Ramadan in order to raise awareness and funds for the less fortunate that do not have access to proper education. We continue to support this foundation and we work on allocating funds for them . Equal Employment Opportunity Our ﬁrm makes sure that recruitment is fair and according to certain procedures that abide by the ﬁrm’s code of conduct. We do not allow room for any discrimination against employees due to their nationality, race or gender. If any of our employees are subject to offences in the ofﬁce or during business hours they are required to report this matter to the HR department or upper management, which ever they feel more comfortable with . Women in Law We recognize that women may face some challenges in the legal industry in our community. This is something we are working on and must change. We encourage women to apply to our law ﬁrm hence offering an inclusive culture where everyone feels valued, respected and supported . THE ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The environment and its sustainability require dedication and management In order to succeed at improving our community and environment we have developed an environmental strategy where we are committed to the protection of the environment using the power we hold to minimize the negative effects the supply chain has on our environment . The ﬁrm’s environmental Policy has taken the following actions Recycle Our main point of action started at the ofﬁce. Al Sulaiti Law Firm accepts and respects the legislation concerning the environment and hence has set out actions that adhere to it. The environment is an essential part of our lives and to that, we care about it; thus choosing to implement a paper and plastic recycling campaign that includes all of Al Sulaiti’s employees. Reduce We understand how much electricity and energy we consume daily and so are working on reducing the amount by informing employees to switch lights and computers off when they are not in use. We are also working on reducing business ﬂights and increasing the use of video conferencing . Sustain We only use mugs in our ofﬁces to avoid using and wasting plastic/paper cups. We try to if the situation allows sending E-Quotations and Invoices to help reduce the waste of paper. In order to sustain the environmental policy in our ofﬁce we constantly remind the employees through posters, “switch me off” stickers and newsletters . Al Sulaiti Law Firm and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 01 We promote the sustainable goals of the United Nations in our ﬁrm and we encourage employees to do the same in their households and to encourage others. Continuous education about the Sustainable Development Goals is an ongo02 ing process at our ﬁrm and we aim to increase awareness so that these goals are actions. 03 We encourage our employees to cherish the environment, by not wasting natural resources. We aim to promote gender equality in our ﬁrm by treating all employees 04 equally. We encourage Equal Employment Opportunity and recruit our employees based on qualiﬁcation and not race, gender or nationality. The WELL Building Standard Provides a model for design and construction to integrate human features in the built environment Is a performance-based system to measure impact of built environment on human health One of Al Sulaiti’s goals for the year 2018 is to partner with Qatar Green Building Council, by doing this our ﬁrm can be a part of the sustainable community to inﬂuence other ﬁrms to follow the same path by tracking its journey towards a “Green Law Firm”. The reason for this is that we spend 90% of our time indoors and employers unlock human potential through your building. The comfort of our employee is very essential to the ﬁrm and we understand how the quality of the workplace environment affects them from several aspects. The purpose of receiving the WELL certiﬁcate is to improve environment for employees and clients, return on investment, increased productivity, improved employee satisfaction and retention. Our plan is to have training sessions for our employees on a monthly basis that educate them about the environment and how they can contribute towards a more sustainable community. Al Sulaiti Law Firm’s goal is to be the ﬁrst law ﬁrm in Qatar to be awarded the WELL initiative. We take a great amount of time and resources to ensure that our employees are healthy, comfortable and not accustomed to injuries or health problems. In 2018 , Al Sulaiti Law Firm will launch a campaign that will include a number of large corporations to encourage recycling of paper and plastic bottles. Our main aim is to encourage as many companies as possible to do business the green way ! ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are proud to conﬁrm that we are fulﬁlling this principle fully. Our law ﬁrm has no tolerance for corruption, including extortion and bribery. The ﬁrm is committed to working against corruption and fraud in all forms and implementing the necessary policies and processes to ensure compliance at all levels; individually and ﬁrm wise . Our policy is to conduct business according to ethical standards and we make sure that everyone at Al Sulaiti Law Firm understands what those standards are. We do not tolerate bribery or the mishandling of funds or data. Al Sulaiti Law Firm is committed to the security and safety of all client and ﬁrm data as we understand conﬁdentiality is of high importance. Whistleblowing A whistleblowing policy exists in our ﬁrm where we encourage employees to report any corrupt or illegal behavior. The lawyers, management and all employees are asked on a regular basis to report any suspicious information they think might . Quality We believe in quality work and quality standards. We have ateam promoted to quality control in order to ensure that our services are delivered in a high quality and standards manner. ISO 9001-2000 Al Sulaiti Law Firm has been ISO 9001 2000 certiﬁed since 2006 Our ﬁrm is committed to the delivering the highest quality of standard we are capable of and to continuously develop ways for improvement. This international standard is based on the quality management principles that improve the organization’s performance
