John Liscombe Limited, Mariner Way, Felnex Trading Estate, Newport, S.Wales, NP19 4PQ, UK Sales Tel. 01633 284111 Tel.01633 284100 Fax. 01633 284125 www.liscombe.co.uk sales@liscombe.co.uk Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact July 2018 Statement of continued support 4th July 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that John Liscombe Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours faithfully, Stephen Morris Joint Managing Director Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Liscombe’s goal is to influence the respect of our employees and our business partners give to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and environmental protection. Based on this commitment we have drawn up a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which incorporates Environmental and Ethical Trading commitments and shared this with employees and our business partners. Implementation We have implemented a programme to reduce human rights risks. This includes: • Enhanced employee participation in decision making through staff representation of key committees • Raising awareness with employees concerning human rights including employee safety • Raising awareness with global business partners of their responsibilities concerning human rights As part of our standard working practices, we ensure that workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Our policies and practices ensure the protection of workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats Our policies and practices ensure that measures are in place to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life during manufacture, usage or disposal of products Measurement of outcomes There have been no legal cases or complaints made against the Company in the area of Human Rights in the period in question, or at any time over the past 145 years. Within the Company Handbook there are company procedures for addressing complaints or allegations with regard to Human Rights, which are reviewed annually by Senior Management. The Company Handbook has been fully reviewed and revised in the past year to take account of development in UK legislation and best practice. The Company has integrated its Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Policy into its Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy in order to ensure a unified approach. Liscombe has established a Whistleblowing Policy in order to protect the rights of anyone who wishes to raise concerns about aspects of Liscombe’s practice. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals The Liscombe Company handbook and policies state the right of freedom of association and clearly set out employee rights, compensation and responsibilities. Our policies clearly set out that Liscombe does not tolerate discrimination under the protected characteristics to ensure fair and equal treatment of all employees. It is Liscombe policy to ensure that its employees work in a safe environment, and that Liscombe’s activities do not have an adverse impact on any third parties’ health and safety. Liscombe has established an Ethical Trading Policy which it shares with its business partners, and which requires these parties to adhere to the Labour principles. Implementation Liscombe has established a Health and Safety Management System which conforms to OHSAS18001 and ISO45001 in order to ensure the occupational health and safety of employees, business partners and third parties. It is the stated goal of Liscombe to have this Health and Safety system independently accredited to the ISO45001 standard within six months. The Health and Safety Management System includes employee participation in the form of a Safety Committee in which employees are encouraged to suggest improvements which enhance the safety of all stakeholders. Health and Safety awareness training form a core part of the Liscombe induction training for all new employees. Ongoing Health and Safety training and awareness are promoted as part of an annual training plan. Liscombe ensures that it does not participate in any form of forced or bended labour Liscombe complies with minimum wage standards in the UK, EU and any other jurisdiction in which it operates Liscombe policies and practices ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Liscombe monitors the Labour practices of key suppliers through a programme of visits to supplier and audits. Responsibility for Health and Safety is vested at Board level within Liscombe. The Company has integrated its Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Policy into its Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy in order to ensure a unified approach. Measurement of outcomes Liscombe has seen continual year on year reductions in the Accident Frequency Rate from 2005 to 2017. One employee celebrated over 50 years of working for the Company in 2012, and the Company invited employees past and present to a free party in October 2013 to celebrate 140 years of trading. Free company social events are available to staff each year. There have been no legal cases brought against the company in the area of labour relations in the year to 2018, nor in the previous 10 years. Liscombe is currently awaiting an external audit by SGS of its Health and Safety Management system, and has been independently audited in the last 12 months by an external body. Liscombe has established a Health & Safety working group consisting of management and staff representatives. Labour and Health and Safety issues are reviewed regularly by Senior Management. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Liscombe has established an environmental assessment of its activities, which has determined that its prime impact on the environment is directly related to moving its goods physically through the supply chain to its customers. Liscombe is committed to reducing the impact of its operations on the environment. Liscombe actively works with its business partners to seek to minimise its impact on the environment and has established an Environmental Policy which is shared with employees and business partners. Liscombe has established an Environmental Management system which conforms to ISO14001. It is the goal of Liscombe to have this Environmental Management System independently accredited to ISO14001 within six months. Implementation Liscombe has established and extended its recycling activities to encompass not only paper recycling, but also plastics, metal and cardboard recycling. Liscombe has established an energy management programme which aims to control and reduce consumption. Liscombe actively negotiates with its business partners to promote more environmentally friendly methods and processes for moving and receiving goods. Environmental training forms part of the Liscombe induction training and ongoing training programme for all employees. Liscombe avoids environmental damage via regular maintenance of production and other process and its environmental protection systems Liscombe has established emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health Liscombe acts to minimise the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances Responsibility for Environmental Management is vested at Board level within Liscombe. Measurement of outcomes Liscombe reuses 98% of the cardboard which it receives from suppliers. Liscombe has established processes for the separation and recycling of over 95% of recyclable materials. Liscombe has established procedures under its Environmental Management system for addressing and reporting environmental incidents. There have been no legal or other actions brought against Liscombe for any environmental matters during the past 10 years. Liscombe is currently awaiting an external audit by SGS of its Environmental Management System. The Environmental Management system is subject to annual review by Senior Management. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Liscombe has carried out an anti-corruption risk assessment hand this has established that while the risk to Liscombe is low, controls are required to ensure that these risks are minimised. Liscombe has established within its Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy framework an Anti-Corruption policy which is shared with its employees and business partners. Liscombe has anti-corruption principles and procedures set out in its Company handbook for all employees. Implementation Liscombe has established anti-corruption training as a key component part of its induction and ongoing training programme for employees. Liscombe has shared its anti-corruption procedures with key business partners worldwide this year. Anti-corruption policy and management is vested at Board level within Liscombe. Liscombe maintains tight financial control of all expenditure on employee and other expenses, to ensure that spending is transparent. Liscombe financial accounts are subject to external annual audit. Measurement of Outcomes There have been no legal or other cases brought against Liscombe in the area of anti-corruption in the past 144 years. Our independent external auditors have passed our accounts without qualification for over 40 years.
