NIPPON PAPER GROUP Sustainability Report 2018 Major Operating Companies and Production Sites (As of March 31, 2018) Consolidated Subsidiaries Paper and Paperboard Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd., Nippon Tokai Industrial Paper Supply Co., Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., NIPPON PAPER UNITEC CO., LTD., Ltd., Paper Australia Pty Ltd. (and its 7 subsidiaries), NP Trading Co., Ltd., Kokusaku Kiko Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Technology Co., Ltd., N&E Kokuei Paper Co., Ltd., SUN OAK CO., LTD., Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd., Co., Ltd., Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd., Nanei Co., Ltd., Nichimoku Fancy Daishowa North America Corporation, Nippon Paper Industries USA Co., Ltd., Materials Co., Ltd., Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A.* (and 1 subsidiary), and Dyna Wave Holding Asia, Jujo Thermal Oy, and Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Nippon Paper Resources Australia Pty Ltd. Co., Ltd., * Referred to as AMCEL in this report. Daily-Life Products Business Other Businesses Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co., Nippon Nippon Paper Logistics Co., Ltd., NANKO UNYU CO., LTD., Kyokushin Seitai Corporation, Kyouei Seitai K.K., and FLOWRIC CO. LTD. Transport Co., Ltd., NIPPON PAPER LOGISTICS CO., LTD., Hotoku Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd., Sakurai Co., Ltd., and GAC CO., LTD. Energy Business Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Energy Center Ltd. Group Companies Japan North America Australia Asia Europe South America Africa Total Consolidated subsidiaries 27 4 4 4 3 2 0 44 Non-consolidated subsidiaries 63 0 0 7 1 0 0 71 Affiliates 31 1 0 3 1 1 1 38 Equity-method affiliates 9 1 0 1 0 0 0 11 Production Sites : Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. : Consolidated subsidiaries : Non-consolidated subsidiaries Paper and Paperboard Business Daily-Life Products Business Energy Business Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.2 1 Kushiro Mill 1 Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu) 1 Kushiro Mill 2 Hokkaido Mill (Asahikawa) 2 Ishinomaki Mill 2 Otake Mill 3 Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu) 3 Higashimatsuyama Mill 3 Yatsushiro Mill 4 Hokkaido Mill (Shiraoi) 4 Gotsu Mill Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Energy 5 Akita Mill 5 Iwakuni Mill Center Ltd.3 6 Ishinomaki Mill Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. 4 Ishinomaki Hibarino Power Plant 7 Iwanuma Mill 6 Tokyo Mill Wood Products and Construction 8 Nakoso Mill 7 Kaisei Mill Related Business 9 Kanto Mill (Ashikaga) 8 Kyoto Mill Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. 10 Kanto Mill (Soka) 9 Koyo Mill 1 N&E Co., Ltd. 11 Fuji Mill Nippon Paper Liquid Package Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd. 1 1 12 Otake Mill Product Co., Ltd.1 2 Miyagi Mill 13 Iwakuni Mill 10 Egawa Mill 13 2 14 Yatsushiro Mill 11 Ishioka Mill 19 Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. 12 Miki Mill 4 15 Harada Mill Nippon Seitai Corporation 16 Suita Mill 13 Asahikawa Mill 3 1 17 Kochi Mill 14 Maebashi Mill Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. 15 Saitama Mill 18 Ichinoseki Mill 16 Niigata Mill 5 Paper Australia Pty Ltd. 17 Kyoto Mill 6 2 22 18 19 Maryvale Mill 18 Kyushu Mill 4 7 Jujo Thermal Oy Kyouei Seitai K.K. 2 11 20 Kauttua Mill 16 10 19 Hokkaido Plant 3 6 8 21 Siam Nippon Industrial 20 Koganei Plant 10 14 9 20 Paper Co., Ltd. 21 Nippon Dynawave Packaging 12 2 15 Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. 15 7 8 4 11 9 22 Head Office Plant 12 16 17 18 1 1 Nippon Paper Liquid Package Product Co., Ltd. was established in 20 17 October 2017, consolidating EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD.; MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD.; and ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. Production at SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. was suspended in July 2017. 13 5 21 21 2 Also sells excess electric power generated by individual mills. 3 No sales were recorded for fiscal 2017. 14 3 19 2 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Nippon Paper Group Editorial Policy The Nippon Paper Group publishes its sustainability report to provide stakeholders with a broad overview Sustainability Report 2018 of what we are doing to meet our corporate social responsibilities (CSR). The Group also publishes an annual report to provide information on its financial Contents aspects and results of operations. This report has been prepared in accordance with Major Operating Companies and the GRI Standards: Core option. Production Sites 2 Editorial Policy 3 Period Covered Message from the President 4 Fiscal 2017: April 1, 2017–March 31, 2018 Includes information from before April 1, 2017 and after March 31, 2018. Dates are indicated in such cases. Business Operations and CSR Scope of Organizations Covered • The Sustainable Business Model and a The reporting entity is Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Business Overview of a Comprehensive Data, however, were compiled as of March 31, 2018 for Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and all 44 of its Biomass Company 6 consolidated subsidiaries. • CSR Activities and Enhancements in Scope of Environmental Coverage Corporate Value 8 The scope of the report covers the basic environmental policies, systems, environmental accounting and environment performance and other data for the 17 Business Activity Impacts and Materiality companies, including 2 non-consolidated subsidiaries with production facilities, named below. All major production • Social Issues and the Nippon Paper locations are included. Group's Value Creation Flow 10 Consolidated: Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper • CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group 12 Crecia Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd.; Paper Australia Pty Ltd.; Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd.; Jujo Thermal Oy; Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd.; Nippon Seitai Corporation; Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.; N&E Co., Ltd.; Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd..; Management Responsibility  13 Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.; GAC CO., LTD.; Amapá Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure / Dialogue Florestal e Celulose S.A.; Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. with Stakeholders* / CSR Management / Compliance (The contribution to total consolidated sales of the companies * Includes examples of dialogues with a customer listed here was 95%.) (Sales data for trading companies that are members of the Nippon Forest Management and Raw Material Paper Group and sell products made by the Group to outside buyers Procurement Responsibility 23 are included.) Policy and Management / Current Status of Raw Materials Non-consolidated: Nippon Paper Liquid Package Product Co., Ltd. and Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. Procurement / Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials / Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources / Overseas Afforestation Referenced Guidelines • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018) of the Environmental Responsibility 31 Ministry of the Environment Policy and Management / Reduction of Environmental Impacts / • Sustainability Reporting Standards issued Climate Change Initiatives / Promoting Recycling / Preserving by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Biodiversity • United Nations Global Compact • ISO 26000, etc. Responsibility to Customers 43 Policy and Management / Enhancement of Product Safety / Enhancement of product value Information on performance relative to guidelines is available at the following URL. Human Rights, Employment and http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/gri/ Labor Responsibility 51 Policy and Management / Occupational Safety and Health / Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization Disclaimer Responsibility to Communities 61 This report includes not only statements of fact and Policy and Management / Coexistence with Local Communities historical data but also plans, forecasts and estimates and Society at Large / Corporate Identity Sharing (forward-looking statements) based on the business plans and policies of the Nippon Paper Group. These forward-looking statements are the result of Outline of the Nippon Paper Group 65 assumptions or judgments based on currently available information as this report was prepared. It should be noted that forward-looking statements may differ significantly from actual results due to the impacts of a number of important factors. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 3 Message from the President As a comprehensive biomass company shaping the future with trees, the Nippon Paper Group will contribute to the building of a sustainable society. The Nippon Paper Group will build on its In fiscal 2018, we are beginning to implement our Sixth sustainable business model and Medium-Term Business Plan, covering fiscal years 2018 to continue to be a company that is 2020. Initiatives under this new plan will be pursued under indispensable to society. two themes: 1) Reorganize the production structure of the paper business and make maximum use of in-house The Nippon Paper Group is a comprehensive biomass facilities; and 2) Expand business in growth areas and company that sustainably nurtures and manages forests commercialize new businesses early on. In the paper and effectively uses and recycles their biomass resources, business, a total of 10 paper machines and coaters will be wasting nothing in the process, to pursue a wide range of taken off-line to bring our supply capability in line with businesses. demand over the plan’s three-year period. This Trees sequester CO2 from the atmosphere as they grow, reorganization of the production structure will help to and forests can be sustainable if they are properly restore profitability of the paper business, an objective we managed. The use of renewable wood resources, therefore, see as the most important under the Sixth Medium-Term helps to fight global warming and resource depletion. By Business Plan. At the same time, we will invest 107 billion sustainably managing domestic company-owned forests yen in growth areas to further accelerate business and overseas afforestation areas, the Nippon Paper Group expansion over the coming three years. Our aim is to is preserving ecosystems and biodiversity. restructure our business portfolio and create a profit Under its slogan, “shaping the future with trees,” the structure that does not rely on the paper and paperboard Nippon Paper Group will use this sustainable business businesses, so that we can generate profits stably, model to properly respond to customer needs, so that it regardless of changes in the external environment. can develop its businesses over the long term and continue to be a company that is indispensable to society. Facing head-on the common human need to realize a sustainable society, We are reorganizing our paper business we aim to make the work of creating production structure and making capital such a society a starting point for investments in growth areas to reform business opportunities to enhance our our business portfolio for greater corporate value. corporate value creation. I believe that companies, as members of society, are Under our Fifth Medium-Term Business Plan, covering the responsible for the impacts of their business activities on period April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2018, we took steps to the environment and society. strengthen the profitability of existing businesses, expand in Accordingly, the Nippon Paper Group identifies areas growth areas, and launch new businesses, all in pursuit of where its value chain is highly likely to have positive or business structure transformation, one of the plan’s themes. negative economic, environmental, or social impacts. Though an unexpectedly large decline in domestic demand Furthermore, we engage in dialog with stakeholders to and sharply higher fuel prices greatly impacted our ability to determine what is expected or required of us and reflect strengthen the profitability of existing businesses, we that understanding for example, in our medium-term achieved steady progress in sowing seeds for new environmental action plan so that we can take steps to businesses. In addition to implementing measures basically properly fulfill our responsibilities. in line with plans, we started a production test facility and Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is a signatory to the mass production facility for the cellulose nanofiber product United Nations Global Compact and is actively working to CELLENPIA®; began sales of SHIELDPLUS®, a new support its 10 principles on human rights, labor, packaging material with outstanding barrier properties; and environment, and anti-corruption. As a business manager, I finalized the decision to establish a demonstration plant for recognize that business survival requires that the common Minerpa®, a new functional material made of fine mineral human need to realize a sustainable society be faced particles bonded to wood pulp. head-on. 4 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 The Sustainable Development Goals* (SDGs) adopted by Group company personnel and the personnel of the United Nations in 2015 constitute a code of conduct subcontractors. that is highly compatible with the Nippon Paper Group’s This report focuses on describing how our sustainable businesses, which use tree and pulp biomass as key raw business model, as that of a comprehensive biomass materials. Viewing social issues as business opportunities, company, contributes to problem resolution and ongoing we aim to contribute to the achievement of SDGs. Nippon development for society, and how we will continue to Paper Industries Co., Ltd., for example, established its pursue our business in coexistence with local communities. Paperising Promotion Office in August 2018. To “let paper The Nippon Paper Group places great importance on do what it can do,” the company has tasked this office with maintaining dialogues with stakeholders and working in advancing the development of new products that will help ways that promote the building of a sustainable society. We to solve environmental problems modern society is facing, invite you to read this report and welcome your candid one example of which is the pollution of marine feedback on how we can improve in these endeavors. environments by disposable plastic products. Regarding matters of safety, we make safety and health * Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Code of conduct consisting of 17 global goals with 169 targets. Adopted by over 150 leaders of member states at the our top priorities and, based on the iron principle that no United Nations Sustainable Development Summit held in September 2015. one must be injured in our facilities, spare no effort in making work environments as safe as they can be for Fumio Manoshiro President Nippon Paper Industries, Co., Ltd. Group Mission Mission Vision Value The Nippon Paper Group 1. Drive social sustainability aims to contribute to through our business Challenge: Embrace new challenges better living and cultural 2. Delight our customers Fairness: Be fair progress everywhere 3. Instill pride in employees Teamwork: Champion teamwork it does business. 4. Give back to society Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 5 Business Operations and CSR The Sustainable Business Model and a Business Overview of a Comprehensive Biomass Company The Nippon Paper Group is a comprehensive biomass company that, while sustainably managing forests, effectively uses every bit of the abundant biomass resources they produce. We provide products essential for daily life across the breadth of society and contribute to efforts to fight global warming, preserve biodiversity, and prevent resource depletion. Sustainable Business Model Cascade use of wood Unprocessed wood Use as a material Paper and construction materials, Harvesting and use and lignin-based and other products CO2 sequestered Use as a fuel in wood Biomass fuel Photosynthesis Sustainable Forest Planting Use CO2 emission Management from burning Recycling of Paper Products Separation and Carbon collection Neutrality Production of CO2 recycled paper CO2 absorption Nurturing and sequestration CO2 absorption from the growth of plants and trees Pulp production from wastepaper Sustainable Forest Management (PP.28, 30) Recycling of Paper Products (P.39) In addition to preventing global warming and protecting The Nippon Paper Group is working diligently to increase watersheds, forests perform a wide variety of functions the waste paper collection rate with the support of such as preserving biodiversity by providing shelter for customers and the general public. In addition to bolstering diverse living creatures (P.40). After harvesting, steps such its recycled paper processing capabilities, the Group is as tree planting are taken to regenerate forests and ensure striving to expand the range of applications for pulp made that forests under our stewardship thrive indefinitely. from wastepaper. 178 thousand hectares of company-owned Recycled paper utilization rate (domestic) Paper 35% Paperboard 89% forests worldwide Carbon Neutrality Cascade use of wood (P.38) (Preventing Global Warming through the Carbon Cycle) While constantly building upon its wealth of wood science Trees absorb and hold CO2 from the atmosphere as they technologies, the Nippon Paper Group uses every grow. It is believed, therefore, that the release of CO2 when harvested tree in a cascade of applications. wood resources are burned results in no net increase in Of the energy used by the Nippon Paper Group, atmospheric CO2. The ongoing effective use of wood approximately half is comprised of biomass fuels. The resources from properly managed, sustainable forests Group is also making advances in the development of constitutes a carbon-neutral cycle that adds no carbon to biomass fuel, thereby helping to curb the use of nonthe atmosphere. renewable fossil fuels. CO2 sequestered in company-owned forests: 33 million tons 6 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Nippon Paper Group Business Overview Paper and Paperboard Business Fiscal 2017 Net sales share* Business Description Nippon Paper Group leads the domestic industry in Wood Products and Other Businesses production, sales volume, and quality. Efforts are underway to reorganize the production structure for the Paper Construction Related Business 31.7 billion yen Business, while developing overseas markets, especially in Asia and the Pacific Rim. 62.8 billion yen Principal Customers Energy Business Newspaper, publishing, printing, and stationery companies; 17.8 1,046.5 and public offices billion yen Paper Paperboard billion yen Paper and Paperboard Daily-Life Products Businesses Business 741.4 192.8 billion yen billion yen *Estimates based on re-organized segments formed in fiscal 2018. Printing paper Linerboard and corrugated medium Wood Products and Construction Daily-Life Products Business Related Business Business Description The Daily-Life Products Business consists of three business Business Description areas Packaging, Household and Healthcare, and The lumber segment of this business has the advantage of Chemicals. All three involve products intimately related to using Japanese timber obtained by the same expertise we daily life and are positioned as growth areas. With use to procure wood resources for making paper. It also endeavors such as acquisitions of liquid packaging board strives to use Japanese timber for construction materials manufacturing and sales and finished products. The civil-engineering-related locations, this business is Household and segment makes use of the technologies we have amassed also moving forward with Healthcare for maintaining facilities at our paper mills. overseas initiatives. Principal Customers Principal Customers Construction materials, housing and construction Beverage manufacturers, companies, general consumers, and public offices major retailers, hospitals Housing and Construction and nursing care facilities, Construction businesses in general, and consumers Household paper products Packaging Chemicals Lumber Interior decoration materials Other Businesses Beverage containers Functional film Business Description Included here are segments that apply real estate and other Energy Business Group assets in sports and leisure operations; and handle Business Description product and material logistics for Group companies. Principal Customers The Energy Business applies our expertise in in-house Businesses and general consumers power generation for paper mills and is positioned as a growth business. It is Sports & Leisure Logistics applying existing power Energy generation facilities and expanding the supply of power from woody biomass. In addition, it is operating solarand wind-power businesses. Principal Customers Leisure Business Distribution Business Electric utilities The power generation facility at Ishinomaki Hibarino Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 7 Business Operations and CSR CSR Activities and Enhancements in Corporate Value With the advantage of the sustainable business model (PP.6-7) of a comprehensive biomass company, we are facing the demands of a sustainable society head on and turning them into business opportunities. Our aim is to build a business portfolio that fulfills society’s demands and will stably produce operating income of 50 billion yen a year. Relationship between CSR Activities and Enhancements in Corporate Value Helping to Build a Sustainable Society Strengthen Positive Impacts Avoid or Reduce Negative Impacts • Work to solve social issues and turn • Reduce environmental impacts and be CSR Activities these solutions into business cognizant of human rights opportunities • Address management risks from the negative impacts of business activities Sustainable business model of a Business Model comprehensive biomass company (PP.6-7) The Nippon Paper Group aims to be a corporate group that positive impacts on the environment and society. We see continues to be indispensable to society. One thing we business opportunities in the need to solve social issues must do toward that end is to drive social sustainability and seize on them to enhance not only our value to society through our business (P.5). Our business model, which but also our economic value. Under our Sixth Medium-Term involves the zero-waste use of renewable biomass Business Plan, we aim to achieve operating income of 47 resources, itself contributes to the sustainable development billion yen in fiscal 2020, the final year covered by the plan. of society. In addition, we work to avoid or reduce the In applying our strengths to grow a business portfolio that negative impacts our business activities can have on the responds to society’s demands, we will strive to develop environment and society. This is our responsibility as a products and materials capable of contributing to a member of society, and we recognize that shirking it entails sustainable society, and will work to make new businesses risk to our own survival. bottom-line contributors as quickly as possible. The Nippon Paper Group also strives to enhance its Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan (fiscal 2018-2020) Priorities and Objectives Fiscal 2017 actual Reorganize production structure of paper business and Fiscal 2020 Targets make maximum utilization of in-house facilities Net sales Expand business in growth areas and commercialize Net sales  1,046.5 billion yen new businesses early on  1,115.0 billion yen Operating income Operating income  17.6 billion yen Capital investment 230.0 billion yen  47.0 billion yen (including M&A, etc.) EBITDA Growth Areas 107.0 billion yen EBITDA  78.1 billion yen Reorganization of production structure 13.0 billion yen  110.0 billion yen Existing businesses 22.0 billion yen ROA 1.8% Maintenance and upgrade 88.0 billion yen ROA 3.8% 8 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Nippon Paper Group Initiatives and Businesses Examples that Can Strengthen Positive Impacts on the Environment and Society Promoting Paperising Solutions Growing understanding of problems such as pollution of marine environments by disposable plastic products is fueling a rise in global demand for reusable products and products that are biodegradable. To respond to these needs, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established its Paperising Promotion Office in August 2018. The Nippon Paper Group has a long history of supplying milk cartons and other beverage containers, paper cups, packaging paper, and other such paper-based packaging products for food, beverage, and other applications to a SHIELDPLUS® wide array of industries. Furthermore, through initiatives such as our November 2017 launch of SHIELDPLUS® (P.49), a new packaging material with outstanding barrier properties, we are moving forward with the development of products that help to solve environmental problems. Our slogan for these initiatives is to let paper do what it can do. Household and Healthcare Paper Products The Poise® Hada Care Pad and the Hada Care Acty® series cellulose nanofiber (CNF) products with outstanding deodorizing capacity respond to the needs of a super-aged* society. Furthermore, greater lengths of paper in individual toilet paper and paper towel rolls enhance ease-of-use for customers and help to lower environmental impacts by increasing logistics and storage efficiency. Poise® Hada SCOTTIE® Four* According to the WHO, a “super-aged society” is one in which over 21% of the population is 65 or older. Care Pad roll, triple-length “flowerpack” It is estimated that about 28% of Japan’s population was 65 or older in 2017. New Materials The Nippon Paper Group can help to build a sustainable society by replacing plastics, metals, and other depletable resources with renewable biomass resources. CELLENPIA®, a CNF product, has entered the development and commercialization stages, and we are now focusing on developing and gaining orders for products that will meet demand for resin, plastic, and other industrial material substitutes. For Minerpa® (P.49), we are investigating applications that can make use of its excellent deodorizing, antibacterial, and flame-resistant CELLENPIA® cellulose nanofiber properties with an eye toward early commercialization. Energy We are helping to curb CO2 emissions by stably supplying renewable energy through wind power, biomass power generation, and other power-generating technologies we have developed over many long years in our paper manufacturing process. Otake Mill’s solar power generation facility Akita wind power generation facility Operating Income by Segment (Hundreds of million yen) Fiscal 2017 actual Fiscal 2020 target Paper and paperboard businesses -55 140 Daily-Life Products Business Growth 119 180 (Packaging, healthcare, and chemicals) areas Energy business 39 75 Wood products and construction related business 45 45 Other businesses 28 30 Daily-Life Products Business – Other businesses subtotal 231 330 Total 176 470 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 9 Business Activity Impacts and Materiality Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s Value Creation Flow Toward Sustainable Social SDGs with Particular Relevance for the Nippon Paper Group’s Materiality Items Development Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts Goal 15 Life on Land As shown in the diagram below, the Nippon Paper Group Enable the sustainable use of the public functions addresses social issues through its value chain. Among of forests and the services of ecosystems by Positive properly managing company-owned forests. these social issues, we identified materiality items. (see Impacts page 12). In the upper right part of the diagram are SDGs the Raw Materials Procurement Group can work to achieve either through the execution of its sustainable business model (see pages 6-7) or through minimization of negative impacts of business activities. These SDGs are particularly relevant for the Nippon Paper Negative Goal 13 Climate Change Initiatives Impacts Help to reduce the loss of forests by strictly practicing Group because of their economic, environmental, and proper, legal procurement. Strive to rein in CO2 social impacts. They are, therefore, viewed as overlapping emissions in all business activities. with materiality items and are also matters for us to consider carefully from a medium-to-long-term perspective in our R&D activities. Addressing Social Issues in Our Value Chain :Materiality ISO 26000 Pages in Social Issues Sustainability Core Subjects Report 2017 Raw Material Procurement Management Organizational Governance, Fair PP.13-22 Responsibility Operating Practices • Sustainable procurement of raw materials (Efforts to procure certified material, confirm legitimacy, pursue afforestation Forest Management, overseas, obtain certifications for company-owned forests, and use domestic Raw Material materials) Procurement, and The Environment PP.23-42 • Protection and nurturing of company-owned forests Environmental ( Preserving biodiversity ) Responsibility Responsibility to Consumer Issues PP.43-50 Customers • Confirmation of suppliers’ actions in respecting human rights • Respect for human rights in the company’s forest management Human Rights, Human Rights, Employment and Labor Practices PP.51-60 Labor Responsibility Coexistencewith • Coexistence withcommunities communities adjacent to overseas afforestation areas (Job creation, education support, cultural preservation, Community contributions contributions to local environments to local preserving biodiversity environments , Preserving biodiversity , Promotion of Responsibility to Involvement and PP.61-64 safety and disaster preparedness, etc.) Communities Development • Contributions that make use of company-owned forests for the benefit of local areas and communities (Environmental education, etc.) 10 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Goal 2 7 9 12 14 Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products Help to protect the environment and enhance the sustainability of resources through technical innovations making greater use of renewable biomass resources. Separation, Collection, Production Shipping Sales and Usage Recycling, and Disposal Goal 6 14 15 Clean Water and Goal 3 Good Health and Sanitation, and Well-Being Life on Land Take every possible measure to protect Prevent environmental pollution from Group working people from disease and injury manufacturing activities by reining in by implementing extensive workplace emissions or discharges of water, air, and safety measures and conducting soil contaminants. thorough training and education. Initiatives in Our Value Chain Separation, Collection, Production Shipping Sales and Usage Recycling, and Disposal Corporate governance, CSR management, thorough compliance, appropriate information disclosure, personal information management, and dialogue dialoguewithwithstakeholders stakeholders Reductionofofenvironmental • Lowering environmental impacts burden • Increase in load efficiency • Promotion of the (Water and air pollutants, waste, noise, vibration, (Promotion of modal shifts) collection and use of odor, chemical substances, etc.) • Shortening of transportation wastepaper • Development and manufacturing of distances (Strengthening of waste (Pursuit of direct delivery and paper processing capacity, environmentally and socially conscious expansion of use of products reorganization of distribution warehouses) unutilized waste paper, improvement of recycled paper pulp quality) Climate change initiatives • The stable supply of products Enhancementof • Enhancement of product • Promotion of wastepaper • Ensuring quality and safety safety safety product collection together with • Enhancement of product customers value (Support for recycling • Pursuing customer satisfaction organizations, establishment of waste paper collection • Appropriate disclosure of facilities, etc.) product information • Addressing customer questions and opinions Appropriate information disclosure, promotion of communication, and environmental education activities Bussiness Continuation in time of emergency • Hiring practices that respect human rights • Ensuring safety in shipping • Securing diversity in the workforce (Promotion of transportation safety) • Human resource development • Occupational Occupational safety safety and and health health , disaster preparedness Creation of comfortable work environments, Creation of a vigorous organization Respect for basic human rights • Coexistence Coexistence with withareas areassurrounding surroundingmills mills • Reduction of impacts of • Working with local (Job creation, education support, contributions shipping communities to promote to local environments, cultural preservation, (Promotion of transportation wastepaper collection promotion of safety and disaster preparedness, safety, adoption of low emission etc.) vehicles, promotion of noise abatement measures) Promotion of appropriate information disclosure and communication Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 11 CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group CSR Materiality Items among Initiatives in Our Value Chain (Addressed on pages 10-11) Scope of ISO 26000 Core Subjects Materiality Indicators External Impacts Organizational Governance, Fair Operating • Dialogue with stakeholders Society P.13 Practices (Management Responsibility) The Environment • Sustainable procurement Production sites, P.23 (Forest Management, Raw Material of raw materials people living P.31 Procurement, and Environmental • Climate change initiatives near companyResponsibility) • Reduction of environmental owned forests, impacts and suppliers • Preserving biodiversity Consumer Issues • Enhancement of product safety Customers P.43 (Responsibility to Customers) • Enhancement of product value Human Rights, Labor Practices • Occupational safety and health Subcontractors, P.51 (Human Rights, Employment and Labor • Creation of a vigorous organization suppliers Responsibility) Community Involvement and Development • Coexistence with local Production sites P.61 (Responsibility to Communities) communities and society at large and people living near companyowned forests The Nippon Paper Group, working from a foundation of sustainable forest management, contributes to better living and cultural progress as a comprehensive biomass company making full use of, and recycling, renewable wood High Materiality resources. Proper management of sustainable forests promotes Impact on stakeholders preservation of biodiversity and helps to fight global High warming. And use of wood resources increases the amount Importance of CO2 sequestered throughout society and helps to prevent issues related to Nippon Paper Group resource depletion. businesses Creating new products and expanding our activities as a Economic, environmental, High comprehensive biomass company, we manage and operate and social impacts expansive forests and large-scale production sites. We, therefore, have a significant impact on the local Process for Identifying Materiality Items areas and people who work there. Coexistence with these Identify social issues in the value chain communities, as well as reducing environmental impacts and securing the safety and health of our local employees, Specify materiality item candidates therefore, are critical to our own continued existence. (Nippon Paper Industries’ CSR Department) Moreover, the opinions of our stakeholders serve as Stakeholder opinions valuable opportunities to grasp issues that are important for Consider materiality items, establish (Employee surveys, coexisting and growing with society in a sustainable way. objectives inquiries and (Relevant departments) requests made by Therefore, the materiality items given above are of customers and local residents, supplier particular importance among our initiatives addressing opinions [see pages Confirm materiality items and objectives 17-19], etc.) social issues in our value chain (see pages 10-11). (Group CSR liaison meetings) We identify materiality items as described in the diagram to the right. Finalize materiality items and objectives (General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s CSR Division) 12 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Management Responsibility The opinions of stakeholders are important for bringing attention to issues that could affect the Nippon Paper Group’s coexistence with society and efforts to grow sustainably. Financial and Management Results Briefing Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2017) Materiality Dialogue with Stakeholders Strive to gain understanding of the Nippon Paper Group’s corporate strategies and policies, listen Held 4 briefings on operating results and [Shareholders and Other Investors] to shareholder opinions and to the business management, and 159 individual meetings Made Constructive Dialogue timely disclosures via the Nippon Paper Group’s analysis views of capital providers, and reflect these website and responded swiftly to inquiries perspectives in management [Suppliers] Surveys of main raw material Exercise due consideration of human rights, worker Conducted surveys (21 chip suppliers, 19 rights, local community needs, biodiversity, and pulp suppliers), and noted no problems in field (chips and pulp) suppliers, field interviews legality interviews [Customers] Responses to customer Responded rapidly and accurately to questionnaires and inquiries Respond rapidly and accurately questionnaires and routine inquiries [Employees, subcontractors, and Conducted training for Group helpline others] Privacy guarantee based on strict Ensure that potential whistleblowers can have responders and practiced strict information management of users’ personal information, communication content, and other confidence to report their concerns internally management information Received 31 whistleblower reports in fiscal 2017 [Local Residents] Dialogue and disclosure Share environmental risk information with Provided information and gathered opinions in of environmental information via risk communication meetings and other means stakeholders 26 risk communication meetings Corporate Governance and Dialogue with Stakeholders Compliance Information Disclosure Basic Stance 17 Compliance Structure 21 Basic Stance 14 IR Activities 17 Group Internal Whistleblower System 21 Corporate Governance Structure 14 Dialog with a Customer 18 Personal Information Protection 22 Compensation Paid to Directors 15 Respect for Intellectual Property 22 Personnel & Remuneration CSR Management Prevention of Bribery of Public Officials Advisory Committee 15 Management Structure 20 and Promotion of Compliance with Evaluating the Effectiveness of Competition Laws 22 the Board of Directors 15 Participating in Organizations in Japan and Abroad 20 Internal Control System 16 Position on Information Disclosure 16 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 13 Management Responsibility Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure Further enhancing transparency and practicing fair management, while pursuing sustainable growth and medium-to-long-term increases in corporate value Basic Stance Corporate Governance Structure Striving to achieve sustainable growth Working to enhance management and medium-to-long-term increases in efficiency and credibility corporate value The Company’s Board of Directors is comprised of seven Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established its Corporate internal directors and two outside directors, for a total of Governance Policy in November 2015 to achieve nine directors, as of June 28, 2018. By combining internal sustainable growth and medium-to-long-term increases in directors with outstanding track records and management corporate value for the Nippon Paper Group in ways that capabilities in the operations they oversee, and outside are consistent with the Group Mission (see page 5). The directors with high levels of knowledge and experience, the Company is acting in accordance with all of the fundamental Company has assembled a diverse Board of Directors that principles of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. is exceptionally well-balanced in terms of knowledge, Our highest management priority is to achieve even experience, and capabilities. greater transparency toward shareholders and other The Management Execution Committee meets weekly, stakeholders and engage in fair business practices. The in principle, to discuss matters for which the president has Company has adopted an executive officer system and is decision-making authority, and other important working to strengthen the oversight function of its Board of management matters. The Management Strategy Directors to ensure the separation of business execution Committee meets as needed to discuss management and management oversight. In addition, as the leader of the strategies for particular business areas, and other matters Nippon Paper Group, the company is implementing growth of importance for the Group. strategies, monitoring businesses under its control, and The Board of Statutory Auditors monitors the company’s promoting compliance. management. Two of the four statutory auditors comprising the board are outside statutory auditors responsible for Corporate Governance Policy https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/governance/ strengthening the board’s monitoring and auditing functions by contributing opinions from a third-party perspective. Initiatives for Strengthening Corporate Governance As of June 28, 2018, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. • Formulated the Basic Policy for Establishing the has nine male directors, three male statutory auditors, and FY2006 Internal Control System • Shortened director terms to one year, from two one female statutory auditor. All of the directors and • Adopted an executive officer system statutory auditors are over 50 years old. FY2013 • Began appointing independent outside directors • Established the Corporate Governance Policy FY2015 • Began evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors • Established the Personnel & Remuneration Advisory FY2016 Committee • Increased the number of independent outside directors to two Corporate governance structure (as of June 28, 2018) General Meeting of Shareholders Elect Elect Cooperate Elect Board of Corporate Auditors Audit Board of Directors Audit (4 members including 2 outside auditors) (9 members including 2 outside directors) Accounting Auditors Supervise Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Representative Directors Cooperate Cooperate Management Execution Committee Management Strategy Committee Management Audit Office Cooperate CSR Division CSR Department Compliance Office Corporate Lawyer Nippon Paper Group Monitor Cooperate Corporate Auditor Liaison meeting ( audit and supervise ) Cooperate Business Execution Divisions, Group Companies 14 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Management Responsibility Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee • SPost-Retirement tatus of the President and Representative Director Working to enhance management Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. does not have a senior transparency advisor system. The company has a corporate advisor system, but no former President and Representative To further enhance corporate governance, Nippon Paper Director is functioning as a corporate advisor, as of June Industries Co., Ltd. established the Personnel & 28, 2018. Remuneration Advisory Committee in April 2016. Created as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, the Corporate Governance Report https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/ committee is structured to include independent outside ecgreport2018.pdf directors as key members. When requested by the Board of Directors, the Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee, with Compensation Paid to Directors appropriate involvement and input by the two outside Determined on the basis of committee members, considers matters concerning topics responsibilities and performance such as the process for nominating Company director and statutory auditor candidates; the quality of, and rationale Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has defined the policy for for, nominations; the criteria for judging the independence officer remuneration in its Corporate Governance Policy of independent outside directors; and the directors’ Article 8. compensation structure. The Board of Directors, after receiving recommendations from the Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee, makes decisions on Corporate Governance Policy (excerpt) director and statutory auditor nominations, compensation for directors, etc. Article 8 (Policy for deciding compensation, etc. of directors and statutory auditors) Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee structure 1. For directors, the Company shall set guidelines for and functions purchasing and holding treasury shares in order to Board of Directors give them an incentive to increase shareholder value by having management conscious of the need to Input Advice increase mediumto long-term corporate value. Directors shall, based on the said guidelines, apply Matters addressed: Officer candidates, officer remuneration, etc. a certain amount of their monthly compensation to contribute to the Directors’ Shareholding Association for acquiring treasury shares. The shares so acquired Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Structure: President and Representative Director, Director and shall be held throughout their tenure of office. General Manager of the General Affairs and Human Resources, 2. Regarding a director’s monthly compensation, his/ Division independent directors (Administration: Manager of the Human Resources Department) her base compensation shall be decided according to his/her job responsibilities in the Company. Of that, 70% shall be ¬fixed and the remaining 30% shall be paid with increases or decreases based on the preceding business year’s business performance. Meanwhile, they shall receive neither Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board bonuses nor directors’ retirement bene¬fits. of Directors 3. Regarding outside directors and outside statutory auditors, monthly compensation shall be ¬fixed. Increasing the effectiveness of the Meanwhile, in view of their job responsibilities, contributions to the Directors’ Shareholding Board of Directors Association shall be left to their discretion. To continuously strengthen the functions of the Board of Directors, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began in fiscal Fiscal 2017 total remuneration1 for directors and 2015 to have its Board of Directors engage in analyses and statutory auditors evaluations of their own effectiveness. Officer class Number Total remuneration for all Once each year, the Secretariat of the Board of of officers members of the officer class Directors’ Meeting asks each director and statutory auditor Directors 102 ¥360 million per year to complete a survey on matters such as board operations Statutory auditors 4 ¥56 million per year and deliberations. Based on survey results, the Board of 1 Rounded down to the nearest million yen. Directors analyzes and evaluates its performance and 2 Includes 1 director who resigned during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. then uses what it has learned to improve its effectiveness going forward. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 15 Management Responsibility Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure • Overview of Fiscal 2017 Analysis and Evaluation Results Board of Directors approved the Basic Policy for Establishing the Internal Control System in 2006 and has Current Status revised it as necessary since then. As called for by the Based on the results of an analysis conducted from five basic policy, systems that are required for the Board of perspectives structure of the Board of Directors, matters Directors to perform its duties in accordance with laws and brought before the Board of Directors, operation of the Board regulations, and with the Company’s Articles of of Directors, training of directors and statutory auditors, and Incorporation, and systems that are required for the Nippon provision of information and systems supporting external Paper Group to properly pursue its business activities have officers efforts undertaken in accord with the individual been established and are being used. principles of the Corporate Governance Code continue to move forward and are appropriate on the whole. •Financial reporting internal controls Regarding the training of directors and statutory auditors, To comply with the internal control reporting system in particular, a point cited for improvement in fiscal 2017, we requirements stipulated under the Financial Instruments and have improved conditions, for example, by beginning to Exchange Act of Japan, the Management Audit Office arrange external seminars in fiscal 2017. These seminars assesses the status and operation of financial reporting supplement the internal seminars we have been conducting internal controls. Based on these assessments, it has been annually for officers since fiscal 2015. determined that effective financial reporting internal controls Regarding the structure of the Board of Directors, we were in place at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., and 24 will continue to consider diversity and other matters as consolidated subsidiaries, as of March 31, 2018. medium-term issues. Position on Information Disclosure Points for Improvement In fiscal 2018, we will focus on improving reporting to the Enhancing management transparency Board of Directors. In April 2016, we revised the Rules for through active information disclosure the Board of Directors to include matters such as progress in implementing the new Medium-Term Business Plan, The Nippon Paper Group strives to enhance the soundness operational status of the internal control system, and and transparency of its management by disclosing examination of equities held for business relationship company information in accordance with our Action Charter purposes to the Board of Directors meeting agenda. (see page 20). This policy is provided in the Nippon Paper Regarding the review of performance reports, the main Group Disclosure Policy adopted in October 2005. agenda item for Board of Directors meetings, we aim to Following the guidelines of this basic policy, we comply improve information presentation and reporting methods to with the provisions of the Financial Instruments and improve conditions under which the Board of Directors Exchange Act of Japan and other relevant laws and performs its monitoring function. regulations. We disclose information in a timely manner, standing on the principles of transparency, fairness and continuity. Furthermore, we disclose information that may Internal Control System not be required under applicable laws, regulations, or timely Complying with statutory and regulatory disclosure rules, when deemed to be of interest to our requirements stakeholders and other members of society. Information Disclosure Policy In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and related https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/disclosure/ laws and regulations, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s policy/ Comment I aim to help the company grow sustainably and enhance its corporate value. Makoto Fujioka, Outside Director, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. I think the purpose of corporate governance is to enable a company to grow sustainably and enhance its corporate value over the medium-to-long term through highly transparent, fair management. To grow sustainably, it is also important for companies to contribute to the resolution of global environmental and social issues through their business activities. Responding to recent growth and social demands, the company has steadily strengthened and improved its governance system. Going forward, I aim to draw on my experience and knowledge in the areas of industrial policy and company management, and on my international experience, to oversee and provide advice on the company’s management from an independent, objective perspective as an external director. 16 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Management Responsibility Actively creating opportunities for dialogue to promote coexistence with society Basic Stance Results of activities in fiscal 2017 Actively promoting dialogue Dialogue with Stakeholders Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure / Operating results and management briefings 1 time Operating results briefings (Teleconference) 3 times The Nippon Paper Group actively establishes contact Individual meetings 159 times points and opportunities for direct dialogue with all stakeholders while regularly providing information on our operations and promoting the exchange of opinions. Each • Tours and other events of our business locations actively creates opportunities for The Nippon Paper Group conducts annual plant tours to regular communication on risks and other matters. And promote a deeper understanding of its business activities. stakeholder opinions are received through channels such The tours of Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.’s Kyoto Mill in as our website, Sustainability Report, and ShikiOriori, the fiscal 2017 attracted considerable praise from the CSR communication magazine we publish to provide plain institutional investors and analysts they were held for. and simple explanations of our CSR initiatives. We carefully consider the feedback we receive and • General shareholders’ meeting, shareholder communications, and IR website reflect it in management decision making aimed at enabling the mutually beneficial ongoing development of society and Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. strives to disclose and the Nippon Paper Group. otherwise provide information in a timely, appropriate manner to enhance dialogue with shareholders at the general shareholders’ meeting. In preparing general shareholders’ meeting announcements, for example, we provide shareholders with copious amounts of important information, which we strive to make as clear and straightforward as possible. For the general Prize of Excellence at the Environmental ShikiOriori shareholders’ meeting held in June 2018, we sent Communication Awards* * The Nippon Paper Group’s Sustainability Report 2017 was named winner of announcements early – 23 days before the meeting date the Prize of Excellence at the Environmental Communication Awards 2016, – and disclosed meeting materials even earlier – seven days sponsored by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum. before we sent the announcements on our website and through other channels. In addition, we distribute shareholder communications IR Activities twice a year and make timely disclosures on our website, Promoting dialogue with shareholders which we also use to receive inquiries about the Nippon and investors Paper Group. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. strives to gain underTrends in dividends per share (Yen) standing of the Group's business direction by engaging March March March March 2015 2016 2017 2018 shareholders and other investors in constructive dialogue. Furthermore, we reflect the opinions of investors and the Interim dividend 20 30 30 30 business analysis perspectives of capital providers in our Period-end dividend 30 30 30 30 management to promote sustainable growth and mediumto-long-term increases in corporate value for the Group. Contact points for dialogue with stakeholders Stakeholder Major point of contact Means of communication Employees and others (executives, permanent employees, part-time employees, employee Human resource sections Labor–management councils, labor–management committees, etc. families) Sales sections Product safety Customers (business enterprises, sections Individual interviews, inquiries to customer relations sections, etc. consumers, etc.) Customer assistance channels Responsible sections Environmental explanatory meeting, risk communication, within mills and branches environmental monitoring system, mill presentation meetings, etc. Society and local residents (local communities, Responsible sections Interviews, etc. NPOs/NGOs, municipalities, the media, within each business segment students, etc.) Social contribution sections Social contribution activities, etc. Public relations sections Press releases, interviews, etc. Business partners (suppliers, Procurement sections Individual interviews, supplier surveys, etc. subcontractors, etc.) Human resource sections Shareholders (shareholders, investors, etc.) General affairs sections General shareholders’ meetings, shareholder communications, IR sections explanatory meetings, annual reports, IR site, IR information mail, etc. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 17 Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Dialog with a Customer Enhancement of Product Value Representatives of Nippon Paper Group’s Healthcare Products Business paid a visit to Nagatoroen, an intensive care home for the elderly. Nagatoroen uses the Hada Care Acty® series of adult diapers, which employ highperformance deodorizing sheets that are the world’s first to use functional cellulose nanofiber. We asked Facility Manager Fumio Nomura, and Care Providers Hiroshi Tomida and Hatsue Iijima, about the problems of an aging society in Japan, the role of intensive care homes for the elderly, and their thoughts on the Hada Care Acty® series of adult diapers. (Interviewers: Yu Sakai of NP Trading Co., Ltd. and Gota Osawa of Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.) Customer Overview Company Name Nagatoroen Location Nagatoro Town, Chichibu-gun, Saitama Prefecture Main Business Intensive care home for the elderly, short-stay care, adult day care, visiting care services, in-home care support Connection to Nippon Paper Group Began using the Hada Care Acty® series of adult diapers Fumio Nomura Hiroshi Tomida Hatsue Iijima in 2016 and has continued to purchase them ever since Facility Manager Care Provider Care Provider —— How is the problem of an aging society in Japan operated by and for people with dementia and their families seen from the perspective of an intensive care home as places to have tea and get to know one another. At the for the elderly? Lunch Café, we offer the same food we prepare on a daily Nomura The biggest problem for us is a shortage of care basis for our ordinary needs. We envision that the café will workers. At our care facility, we are steadily working to attract mostly elderly people who are still capable of living prepare for what is referred to as the “2025 problem”1, but independently, but we also welcome people who require have not achieved the progress we need to. When the baby assistance in their daily lives. Our philosophy is to be a boom generation begins to use intensive care homes for facility that is open to the local community. the elderly, the personnel shortage will make it impossible to provide the necessary services. This is a critical problem —— What kind of services does your facility perform? for care facilities going forward. What kinds of care does it provide? 1 The baby boom generation, which numbers approximately 8 million, will pass the age of 75 in 2025 and join the ranks of the latter-stage elderly. Nomura At this time, an intensive care home for the elderly —— Are you considering measures such as using can, in principle, admit only people with a nursing care foreign workers to resolve your labor shortage? level2 of 3 or higher, so for most of our residents this will be Nomura Some facilities are doing that, but our facility is their last home. We strive to provide support that allows not currently considering it. Care workers have to work with these residents to live out their days in ease and with as the elderly and, in my experience, there is a language much freedom in lifestyle as possible. But, of course, the barrier that seems to make communication too difficult for amount of time spent on meals, attending to bathroom foreign workers. Our plan is to hire Japanese care workers needs, changing diapers, etc. is significant. who live nearby, to the extent possible. Tomida I want to spend time with the residents and help them to get the most enjoyment out of their recreation —— Could you please tell us about your initiatives for activities. But we have many residents who have been coexisting with the local community? assigned high nursing care levels, so it is unfortunate, but the number of people I can be with is limited. So it is within Nomura As an initiative for the benefit of the local those circumstances that I want to provide care that community, we began in April to operate the Lunch Café for alleviates distress and gives residents a sense of security local residents 65 or older. The Lunch Café builds on the that allows them to live as they want, to the extent possible. concept of the Orange Café, which are venues that are Iijima Every Sunday, we hold events in which, for example, 18 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Management Responsibility residents participate in crafts or volunteers join us for odor of urine from the second floor, but now I don’t hear activities. And every month, we announce the names of those comments anymore. And I agree; urine and fecal Dialogue with Stakeholders everyone with a birthday during that month and hold a odors are no longer a problem. birthday party. Sunday is the only day when there is no bathing assistance, so lunch is served about 30 minutes —— What are your opinions about our support early, the staff finish their work early, and we all enjoy an system? hour or hour-and-a-half of fun from about 1:30 PM or so. Iijima I was very thankful for the class on how to put 2 When a person is to receive care services, their need level is assessed. There are diapers on another person, choose pads, etc. Even among five nursing care levels assigned numbers 1 to 5. “Nursing care level 3” describes a person who is unable to stand up and walk on their own and who requires those of us who have been doing this for a while, there nearly comprehensive care assistance for bathroom needs, bathing, dressing, were some who were not putting diapers on the right way. and other daily activities. Diligently studying how to put the diapers on makes it —— What are the most fulfilling aspects of your work? possible to easily do it correctly and makes the residents Iijima I like elderly people a lot. Among the people I care more comfortable. I’ve heard that these classes will be held for are some who cannot communicate verbally, but if I say regularly and I’m very thankful for that. something to them, they always do something to let me Nomura Your sales representatives definitely visit us more know they heard me. Even if they cannot speak, if I see a often than representatives of other companies do, and I’ll little smile, for example, I know they heard me and the be very thankful to have that service continue. moment I see that smile I feel fortunate to be doing the work I’m doing. Also, there are people who can speak and, —— Please tell us what role you would like the Nippon though it seems only natural, when a resident says, “Thank Paper Group to play going forward. you,” I feel extremely happy. Nomura Not just about your company’s products, but in Tomida I feel a great deal of fulfillment when I’m taking general, the switch from cloth diapers to paper diapers has care of someone and they do something that tells me they reduced total costs. The residents who use them have no feel secure and content. Of course, there are residents who complaints, and I think paper diapers are good. When I can say, “Thank you,” for something I’ve done for them, but came to this facility six years ago, it was still using cloth it also makes me especially happy when a resident who diapers. Paper diapers were already in wide use, but there cannot speak acknowledges my effort with a smile. were still some, particularly elderly people, who preferred cloth diapers. Where we are today is a result of the efforts —— Would you please let us know your opinions of all of the paper diaper manufacturers. The Nippon Paper about the Hada Care Acty® series of adult diapers? Group is involved in various businesses, but I would like to Iijima I’m very satisfied. For example, after we change the see it devote even greater attention to paper diapers. I diapers, we put all the used ones in a single bag before would like to see even more efforts devoted not only to disposing of them. In the past, the bag gave off a deodorizing performance but also areas such as horrendous smell, even if it was sealed, and we had to use absorbency and the comfort of wearers. Research and a deodorizing spray to deal with the situation. With the other efforts to lower your costs would also make me Hada Care Acty® series, odor is not an issue. I can really tell happy. I’m anxious to see what you can do. that it has very good deodorizing performance. Also, with previous products, diaper rash was a terrible problem, but now I hear no complaints. The Hada Care Acty® series has reduced the number of times we have to change diapers for most of the residents who use them, and the residents are more comfortable, partly because they are able to sleep longer. One other thing I’m pleased with is that the tapes that are used to secure the diapers are long and stay on very well. Tomida The place where we change diapers does have a bit of odor, as you might expect, but outside of that space the odor has almost completely disappeared. Nomura Our facility has two floors; the second floor is where we provide care for residents. Before we started to use the Hada Care Acty® series, I would sometimes hear Right side, front to back: Facility Manager Fumio Nomura, and Care Providers Hiroshi Tomida and Hatsue Iijima from employees on the first floor that there was a strong Left side, front to back: Yu Sakai, Gota Osawa Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 19 Management Responsibility CSR Management Advancing CSR activities that help to build a sustainable society through business endeavors Management Structure Meeting social responsibilities through business activities Oversight through the CSR Division Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established the CSR Mission Division to oversee the CSR activities of the Group as a The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to ➡P.5 whole. The CSR Department and Public Relations Office better living and cultural progress everywhere it does business. were set up within the CSR Division. The CSR Department promotes CSR activities based on the Action Charter and works closely with the various divisions and departments. Initiatives for Solving Social Problems Management Responsibility ➡P.15 The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter Forest Management and Raw Material 1. We shall pursue a sustainable growth for the future to Procurement Responsibility ➡P.23 contribute to society through our business activities. 2. We shall abide by the letter and the spirit of laws Environmental Responsibility ➡P.31 and regulations, and comply with the highest ethical standards and social codes of conduct, both in Responsibility to Customers ➡P.43 Japan and abroad. 3. We shall conduct our business in a fair, transparent Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility ➡P.51 and liberal manner. 4. We shall win the trust of customers through the Responsibility to Communities ➡P.61 development and provision of socially useful and safe products and services. 5. We shall disclose corporate information positively and fairly to all stakeholders of the Group. Identification of Social Problems and Needs 6. We shall actively address environmental issues, and shall endeavor to conserve and enhance the Dialogue with Stakeholders ➡P.17 environmental state of our planet. 7. We shall maintain consistency between corporate Information Disclosure ➡P.16 development and the personal contentment of individual employees, and create a company filled with dream and hope. Participating in Organizations in Japan and Abroad • Supporting CSR activities by Group companies Seeking to connect to and work with Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s CSR Department hosts external parties regular CSR liaison meetings with personnel in charge of CSR at principal Group companies. These meetings are held The Nippon Paper Group strives to share information with to communicate directions being taken with regard to CSR other companies and organizations, and contribute to matters and to share opinions. They are also used as various activities together with these partners. opportunities to hear discussions of CSR activity trends by Principal organization memberships invited consultants, and to hold workshops. https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/2018_ DATA_SECTION_E.pdf • Surveying Employees on Important CSR Matters In February 2018, the Nippon Paper Group conducted a • The United Nations Global Compact survey to gather input from employees, as stakeholders, on Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. matters of CSR Materiality (see page 12). We considered and announced its decision to support identified materiality items for fiscal 2018 in light of factors the 10 principles covering the four such as impacts on outside stakeholders. fields of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption • Meeting social responsibilities through business activities and joined the United Nations Global Compact as a signatory in The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to the November 2004. development of a sustainable society through its business United Nations Global Compact activities. Toward that end, we are committed to grasping the https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ expectations and demands of our stakeholders, and fulfilling our social responsibilities from the perspectives of business management; forest management and the procurement of raw materials; the environment; customers; human rights, employment, and labor; and local communities. 20 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Management Responsibility Compliance Management Responsibility As a committed partner ensuring that employees are fully informed about compliance, the Nippon Paper Group engages in corporate activities in accordance with laws and social norms Compliance Structure Group Internal Whistleblower System Promoting compliance throughout Encouraging reporting via a help line on CSR Management / Compliance the Group activity in conflict with compliance The CSR Division of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. The Nippon Paper Group has established its help line serves as a facilitator and driving force behind efforts to system to allow any employee of the Group to provide achieve and reinforce understanding of compliance direct notification of, or seek advice outside the chain-ofthroughout the Nippon Paper Group. command on, any action in the workplace that could violate Each Group company appoints a person to be in charge laws, social norms or corporate ethics. The Compliance of compliance within its organization, and Nippon Paper Office located within Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Industries’ Compliance Office actively hosts Group CSR Department serves as a point of contact within the Compliance Liaison Meetings to provide all employees in Group. We have also established points of contact outside charge of compliance with information on important policies the Group for use by employees as appropriate. The help and measures, opportunities to share information, and line system guarantees the privacy of whistleblowers and advice on education and training activities. takes steps to ensure that they do not suffer because they have reported questionable activity or have sought advice. Compliance Structure Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Trends in the number of notifications received by the help line CSR Division Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 26 19 11 31 Compliance Office Flow of the help line system Cooperation User Group company employees, temporary workers, Group companies contract workers, dispatched staff, workers from contractors, etc. Personnel in charge of compliance Notification/consultation Response Notification/consultation Group Compliance Liaison Meetings, etc. Response External Point of Contact Company specializing in • Implementing compliance education telephone counseling Legal office The Nippon Paper Group conducts training on an ongoing basis to further enhance compliance awareness and Notification/consultation Response understanding. We, together with a consultant from outside Internal Point of Contact the Group, conduct practical training that involves group discussions and other approaches and is tailored to the CSR Department Compliance Office specific needs of production sites and sales offices. In fiscal Coordination 2017, 530 people participated in this training. Education on compliance is also provided through avenues such as Group Companies stratified training in the form of new-hire training and training Employees in charge of compliance for newly appointed managers at principal Group companies. Compliance training Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 21 Management Responsibility Compliance Personal Information Protection as a key value in its Group Mission. Based on this attitude Maintaining a systematic structure and and these pronouncements, the Nippon Paper Group has rules until now taken a top-down approach to preventing bribery and promoting compliance with competition laws. Nippon Paper Industries has taken steps to ensure clear In recent years, however, countries throughout the world understanding of the structure and rules applicable to the have quickly enhanced regulations in these areas, and handling of personal information. The personal information authorities have actively exposed violations. of customers, business partners and employees is As a result, a growing number of Japanese companies controlled by clearly stated rules and a manual, and is doing business overseas have been cited and sanctioned. tracked and managed in control ledgers by individual related The Nippon Paper Group, therefore, has significantly departments as required by the Private Information stepped up its efforts to thoroughly comply with the laws Protection Law. These ledgers contain details of the dates and regulations of the countries where it does business. when personal information was obtained and the purposes Going forward, we will strive to strengthen our risk for holding it, and are reviewed annually to eliminate data for management system in line with the Group’s Basic Policy which the holding period has expired and take other actions, on Prevention of Bribery of Public Officials and Basic Policy as well, to ensure that information is handled properly. on Compliance with Competition Laws. Nippon Paper Codes of Conduct https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/about/charter/ Respect for Intellectual Property Education programs on intellectual property rights and compliance • Essentials of the Nippon Paper Group’s Basic Policy on Prevention of Bribery of Public Officials The Nippon Paper Group’s emphasis on intellectual property • The basic policy prohibits bribery, requires compliance is evident not only in research and development but also in with laws and regulations, and calls for education on these all of its business activities, and the Group adheres strictly topics. Given that the Group conducts business globally, to all applicable laws and regulations. Members of the the basic policy unequivocally requires compliance with Intellectual Property Department of Nippon Paper Industries, laws and regulations not only in Japan but in all countries and outside patent attorneys, conduct intellectual property and regions where the Nippon Paper Group does business. education programs for the benefit of Group company • In the interest of public accountability, record-keeping is employees. required even for outlays that are beyond potential A total of 304 employees attended the 12 programs in association with an act of bribery. fiscal 2017. Nippon Paper Group’s Basic Policy on Prevention of Bribery of Public Officials https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/about/ Prevention of Bribery of Public Officials and Basic Policy on Prevention of Bribery_EN.pdf Promotion of Compliance with Competition Laws Strengthening the Risk Management • Essentials of the Nippon Paper Group’s Basic Policy on Compliance with Competition Laws System in Line with the Group’s Basic Policy on Prevention of Bribery of • The basic policy requires compliance with the laws and Public Officials and Basic Policy on regulations of relevant countries and calls for education on Compliance with Competition Laws compliance with competition laws. Based on the assumption that international transactions will be engaged Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. set forth the Group’s in as a matter of the Group’s global business development, Basic Policy on Prevention of Bribery of Public Officials and the basic policy unequivocally requires compliance with Basic Policy on Compliance with Competition Laws in competition laws not only in Japan but in all countries and November 2017. regions where the Nippon Paper Group does business. When Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established the • The basic policy includes a list of typical competition law Nippon Paper Group Action Charter (P.20) and Nippon violations as concrete examples of prohibited activities. Paper Codes of Conduct in April 2004, it included clear Nippon Paper Group’s Basic Policy on Compliance with pronouncements on preventing bribery of public officials Competition Laws and promoting compliance with competition laws in the https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/about/ Basic Policy on Compliance with Competition Laws_ sections that address the conduct of its business in a fair, EN.pdf transparent and liberal manner. It has also included fairness 22 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group, as a comprehensive biomass company pursuing business endeavors that are founded on sustainable forest management and promoting sustainable growth by using, and later recycling, every bit of the renewable wood resources it harvests, contributes to better living and cultural progress. In addition, we preserve biodiversity through sustainable forest management. Because forests act to sequester CO2, our use of wood resources actually contributes to the fight against global warming. BTP (Australia) afforested area Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2017) Materiality Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Maintenance of forest certifications for all company-owned forests inside and 100% of company-owned forests 100% outside Japan Ensure that all wood materials for pulp and paper are endorsed under forest 100% of wood used as raw material for paper 100% certification systems Conduct survey-based audits of 100% (Overseas chip suppliers: 21; overseas chip and pulp suppliers 100% of chip and pulp suppliers domestic and overseas pulp suppliers: 19) Promote use of domestic timber Maintain a domestic timber utilization rate that Achieved a domestic timber utilization rate exceeds the wood self-sufficiency rate that exceeds the wood self-sufficiency rate Policy and Management Sustainable Procurement of Overseas Afforestation Basic Stance 24 Raw Materials Sustainable Management of Basic Stance 26 Overseas Afforested Areas 30 Philosophy and Basic Policy 24 Action Plan for Wood-Based Tree Farm Initiative 30 Sustainable Forest Management 24 Raw Material Procurement 26 Framework for Promoting Raw Materials Procurement Management 24 Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources Current Status of Sustainable Management of Raw Materials Procurement Company-Owned Forests in Japan 28 Current Status of Paper Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry 28 Raw Materials Procurement 25 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 23 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Policy and Management Practicing sustainable procurement of raw materials in ways that consider environmental and social concerns in line with our philosophy and basic policy Basic Stance Sustainable Forest Management Pursuing sustainable and stable wood Practicing proper planning resources procurement and management Woodchips and wastepaper, as recycled material, are the Forestry management considers not only economic, but main raw materials for pulp and paper. Procurement of also environmental and social sustainability. The Nippon these materials entails the support not only of suppliers in Paper Group defines sustainable forest management as: and outside of Japan, but also the communities and 1) Biodiversity is preserved. government authorities of local production areas. Taking 2) The productivity and soundness of the forest ecosystem into consideration relationships with the environment and is maintained. society, the Nippon Paper Group recognizes the importance 3) Soil and water resources are conserved. of working closely with suppliers to establish a sustainable 4) Diverse social needs are satisfied. supply chain that incorporates production area forest Proper planning and management are important factors ecosystem, local community, occupational safety and in the sustainable management of forests. A considerable health as well as other concerns. amount of time is required to cultivate trees to their maturity. Accordingly, we have built and implemented a structure In putting together a viable sustainable forest management and framework that will allow us to sustainably procure plan, it is important to consider factors including the areas renewable wood resources. allocated to afforestation and harvesting, the rate of growth, the surrounding environment and the impact on society. Landscape concerns related to efforts to protect Philosophy and Basic Policy waterside forests and address other such needs must also Focusing on Supply Chain Management be examined. Taking full advantage of its expertise in forest in Procuring Raw Materials management, the Group is promoting proper planning and management. The Nippon Paper Group established its Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement in 2005. Based on this philosophy and basic policy, we use Framework for Promoting Raw Materials Procurement Management supply-chain management to practice sustainable raw material procurement that is both environmentally and Overseeing raw material procurement socially conscious. Moreover, we promote dialogue with for the entire Group stakeholders as we strive to take our environmentally and socially conscious raw material procurement to greater The Nippon Paper Group established the Raw Materials levels of achievement. Committee, chaired by the general manager of the Raw Materials and Purchasing Division at Nippon Paper Industries. This subcommittee deliberates on a wide variety of important issues concerning raw material procurement, including the Group’s overarching procurement policy. Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement (formulated on October 5, 2005) Philosophy We are committed to establishing a reliable raw materials procurement system through global supply chain management in consideration of the environment and society. Basic Policy 1. Environmentally friendly raw materials procurement 2. Socially aware raw materials procurement (1) We procure woodchips, lumber and pulp from forests (1) We pursue fair deals with suppliers on equal terms. under sustainable forest management. (2) We ensure that the entire supply chain has appropriate (2) We use and deal in no illegally logged lumber and we human rights and labor practices. support the eradication of illegal logging. (3) We make active use of recycled materials to help build a 3. Promotion of dialogues with stakeholders recycling-oriented society. (1) We engage in dialogues with stakeholders to improve (4) We make appropriate procurement of chemical the quality of our raw materials procurement in constant substances in compliance with relevant laws and consideration of the environment and society. regulations. (2) We proactively disclose information so that our initiatives (5) We build traceability systems to ensure the above policies are better known. are practiced throughout the supply chain. 24 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement In addition to actively promoting the use of recycled paper, we procure wood resources from sustainably managed forests. Current Status of Paper Raw Materials Procurement • Initiatives aimed at stable wastepaper procurement With each passing year, the collection of wastepaper has Using wastepaper and wood resources Forest Management and taken on greater importance for reducing waste volumes as raw materials and reusing materials. For Japan’s paper industry, Raw Material Procurement wastepaper is an essential resource accounting for more The Nippon Paper Group is engaged primarily in the than half of the raw materials it uses. Responsibility manufacture of paper products. 53.7 percent of the raw Against this backdrop, the Nippon Paper Group has materials are composed of recycled paper and the remaining maintained a stable system for procuring wastepaper. This 46.3% consists of such wood resources as woodchips. system, the product of many years of collaboration with the Policy and Management / Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement wastepaper industry, promotes the recycling of wastepaper. Breakdown of main raw materials for paper manufacturing1 (Fiscal 2017) • Initiatives aimed at stable wood resource procurement Most of the wood raw materials Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. procures consist of woodchips, with pulp making Other pulp (Wood resources) Wastepaper pulp up the rest. Over 60% of the woodchips we use come from 46.3% 53.7%2 overseas sources and less than 40% from domestic. To ensure stable overseas procurement, sources of woodchip imports are diversified among Australia, South America, and other parts of the world. 1 Consolidated Group companies in Japan 2 Includes purchased wastepaper pulp Geographic breakdown of wood raw materials (chips) procured by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (FY2017) (Bone dry units, kt = kilotonnes) Overseas 64% (2,795 kt) Japan 36% (1,580 kt) Afforested areas Secondary forests** Hardwood Softwood 78% Hardwood Softwood 22% 59% 5% 13% 23% (2,558 kt) (237 kt) (584 kt) (996 kt) Hardwood resource breakdown (3,142 kt) Softwood resource breakdown (1,223 kt) Secondary forests* 4% Afforested areas Secondary forests** Afforested areas 78% 22% 96% 40 20 80 100 60 0 * Forests that have recovered naturally or that have been artificially replanted after an event such as timber harvesting or fire. Tree species and countries of origin for overseas woodchips procured by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (Fiscal 2017) Hardwood Softwood Secondary forests* 4% Country Percentage Species Country Percentage Species Australia Afforested 29%areas Eucalyptus Australia 79% Radiata pine South Africa 9623% % Acacia 60 80 20 40 100 0 U.S.A. 13% Douglas fir Brazil 18% Eucalyptus, Acacia Russia 8% Yezo spruce Vietnam 16% Acacia Total 100% Chile 14% Eucalyptus Total 100% Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 25 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Practicing sustainable forest management and resource procurement using certifications as benchmarks Basic Stance Distribution and Use of Legally Harvested Wood (the Clean Focusing on legal compliance and Wood Act), which took effect in May 2017. In compliance transparency in the procurement of with this law, the company confirms the legality of the raw materials covered items it handles. The Nippon Paper Group is a strong advocate of sustainable raw materials procurement that takes into Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement consideration environmental and social concerns. Our procurement of wood raw materials rests on the principles Eradicating illegal logging while of legality and emphasizes sustainability, clear identification promoting environmentally and socially of the origin of wood resources, and full accountability. aware procurement When purchasing from external suppliers, we make every effort to enhance our supply chain management The Nippon Paper Group has put in place its Action Plan capabilities, taking into consideration environmental and for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement, in keeping with social needs. At the same time, we use a system that the Group’s Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw employs third-party forest certification programs to confirm Materials Procurement. This action plan provides a the propriety of raw materials procurement. roadmap that incorporates checks on the legality of In the context of procurement from company-owned woodchips, and consideration for human rights, labor, local forests, we pursue overseas afforestation projects to communities, and the preservation of biodiversity, allowing increase our plantation timber procurement. Moreover, we the Group to practice CSR procurement. This action plan practice sustainable forest management by maintaining also helps enhance traceability and the use of forest forest certifications acquired for company-owned forests certifications with respect to woodchips procured from both in Japan and overseas. overseas while placing considerable emphasis on trade association certification of the legality of woodchips Key points of sustainable wood produced in Japan. resources procurement Nippon Paper Industries, in connection with annual forest certification audits and audits performed by the • Sourcing from sustainable forests (sustainability) Japan Paper Association’s illegal logging monitoring project, • Clearly identifying the origin of timber (traceability) • Maintaining full accountability (accountability) has third parties perform objective assessments to determine whether it is conducting wood resource procurement in accordance with its basic policies. Suggestions from these assessments are then used to • About the Clean Wood Act make improvements. In March 2018, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement completed its registrations as both a Type 1 and Type 2 http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/forest/ Wood-related Business�under the Act on Promotion of the procurement/actionplan/index.html (Japanese only) Overview of major forest certification programs Certification program name Details and features PEFC—Programme for the PEFC bases its sustainability benchmark on a broad consensus expressed in intergovernmental processes Endorsement of Forest Certification and guidelines. It provides a mutual recognition system that endorses compatibility and comparability of the A program that promotes mutual responsible forest management systems of individual countries. Launched across countries in Europe, the recognition of the forest certification program encompasses the forest certification programs of 49 countries around the world. PEFC has adopted the programs of individual countries FM and CoC certification systems*. Examples of certifications mutually approved by PEFC (for forests owned by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Australian Forestry Standard (AFS): Australia / CERTFORCHILE: Chile / CERFLOR: Brazil SGEC—Sustainable Green SGEC engages in an evaluation based on seven criteria while taking into consideration Japan's natural Ecosystem Council environment as well as its social customs and culture. A forest certification program Mutual certification with PEFC was approved in June 2016. established in Japan FSC®—Forest Stewardship Council® A forest certification program based FSC® is a non-profit international member-based organization that certifies that forests are being managed in on unified global standards compliance with its 10 principles and 70 standards. FSC® has adopted the FM and CoC certification systems*. (License No. FSC® C001751) * FM and CoC Certification The forest certification system is composed of two components—the Forest biodiversity, (3) respect for native and local resident rights, and (4) maintenance Management (FM) component, which certifies that forests are responsibly and improvement of forest productivity. managed, and the Chain-of-Custody (CoC) component, which certifies that CoC certification is a system covering all operators engaged in the processing products from certified forests have been properly processed and distributed. and distribution of timber materials. In addition to tracking products (certified Under the FM certification system, a third party certifies that the management woodchips) from certified forests in each process including processing and of forests is being undertaken in a sustainable manner based on various objective distribution, CoC certification confirms that a risk assessment of all non-certified benchmarks including (1) compliance with regulatory requirements and system woodchips has been undertaken. Products display a certification mark in the frameworks, (2) maintenance and preservation of forest ecosystems and event that all operators have acquired CoC certification across all processes. 26 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable wood resource procurement scheme Forest Management and Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement (see page 24) Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Action Plan for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement Japanese Resources Overseas Resources Basic Policy • Based on verifications by organizations approved • Veri¬fications by individual companies using their and Scheme by forest, timber or lumber industry organizations own approaches, as provided in the Guideline for Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials specified in the Guideline for Verification of Verification of Legality and Sustainability of Wood Legality and Sustainability of Wood and Wood and Wood Products. Products established by Japan’s Forest Agency in • Based on the Japan Paper Association’s guideline connection with government procurement initiatives for measures against illegal logging. to fight illegal logging in accordance with the Law on Promoting Green Purchasing. • Confirmation based on a due-diligence system (DDS) for verifying legality under the Clean Wood Act Confirmation • Traceability based on the Guideline for Verification • Document verifications are performed on a vesselof Legality and of Legality and Sustainability of Wood and Wood by-vessel basis to ensure that the area where the Traceability Products established by Japan’s Forest Agency wood was harvested and the supplier of the wood • Confirmation of basic information relating to are in compliance with relevant laws, and that no forest operations. Information examples include illegally harvested wood is included. compliance with laws and regulations, tree species, • On-site checks by employees assigned to local and whether forest certifications have been offices obtained. • Questionnaires and local interviews (Every effort is made to enhance traceability by confirming compliance with statutory requirements regarding forest management, tree species, and the acquisition of forest certifications. * In fiscal 2017, it was determined, based on questionnaire responses and shipping and other documents provided by each supplier, that no illegally harvested woodchips or pulp were procured from overseas suppliers. Confirmation of Based on information from sources such as results of supplier surveys and local interviews, the following has sustainability been confirmed. • Policies or systems have been established for addressing human rights and labor matters. • Social contribution initiatives have been undertaken to improve relations with local communities. • Biodiversity surveys have been conducted. • Areas requiring special consideration to protect biodiversity have been identified and logging and forest management activities have been modified appropriately. Independent The following have been implemented for all procured wood resources. Audits • Annual audits by the Japan Paper Association’s illegal logging monitoring project. • Annual risk assessments based on the due diligence system of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), a Forest certification organization. Implementation Results for the Action Plan for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement (Fiscal 2017) Procurement in Japan Procurement Overseas Coverage and 395 chip suppliers, 5 pulp suppliers 21 chip suppliers, 14 pulp suppliers Results (Implemented for all suppliers) (Implemented for all suppliers) Confirmation of conformance with the above Confirmation of conformance with the above action plan action plan Third-Party Sustainable Forest Management Validations Forest certification system: System for the certification by third-party organizations that forests are being sustainably managed At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., • All company-owned forests in Japan and overseas have received forest certifications. • All wood-based raw materials have been certified by the PEFC or FSC® (All procured chips have been produced with wood from forests with an FM certification or have undergone a risk assessment for the CoC certification.) Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 27 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources Maintaining a focus on forest management that takes into consideration the characteristics of each region in an effort to promote sound growth Sustainable Management of Company-Owned Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry Forests in Japan Actively utilizing domestically produced Practicing sustainable forest management timber while contributing to the at company-owned forests over an area prevention of forest deterioration extending to 90 thousand hectares In recent years, deterioration of artificially planted Japanese Nippon Paper Industries owns approximately 90 thousand cypress and Japanese cedar forests throughout Japan has hectares of forest in around 400 locations in Japan, the become a concern. The reason for this deterioration is low second largest private-sector holdings of forest in the lumber prices that have squeezed forest industry profitability country. SGEC Forest Certifications have been obtained for and made it impossible to perform thinning and other all of the forest. For the Nippon Paper Group, forests are necessary maintenance. To invigorate the industry and not only an important business resource—as a corporate prevent further forest deterioration, the Japanese group shaping the future with trees, we recognize and work government, under its Forest and Forestry Basic Plan, has to manage the integrity of the multifaceted functions forests committed itself to promoting the use of domestically play within society. produced wood, and lifting the nation’s wood selfsufficiency rate to 50% by 2025. • Maintaining company-owned forests in Japan Nippon Paper Industries allocates approximately ¥0.7 billion • Promoting the use of domestic timber each year to the maintenance and management of With its network for domestic timber collection in Japan, company-owned forests in Japan, which entails the clearing and its ability to handle a comprehensive lineup of products, of undergrowth and thinning. As a company which has Nippon Paper Lumber is actively developing its domestic continued to benefit from and grow through forests and timber business. In fiscal 2017, the company handled forest products, we are committed to balanced, sustainable approximately 930 thousand m3 of domestically produced forest management that allows forests to fulfill their materials, and ranked second in its field in Japan. To multifaceted functions—including ones that benefit achieve its objective of 1 million m3, the company is biodiversity preservation and continuing to develop new applications while working to watershed conservation— boost exports. despite the fact that forests within Japan are not currently Distribution of company-owned forests in Japan and economically viable because of composition by tree species Sugenuma company-owned forest (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) (As of March 31, 2018 ) the stagnant price of domestic which includes an “environmental forest area” (Mt. Nikko-Shirane) timber. • Environmental forest designations, biodiversityconscious forest management • Has established a bird sanctuary within its company-owned forests and is working closely with the Wild Bird Society of Japan to help protect Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. designates its domestic Blakiston’s fish owl (see page 41) Hokkaido company-owned forests as either “commercial forest areas” 43 k ha for the production of wood materials or “environmental forest areas,” where wood-material production is not conducted and the ecological, water catchment, and other environmental functions of forests are protected. The Tohoku • Held a tree-planting 11 k ha activity at Marunuma company appropriately manages both forest types for their Kogen in 2018 (see page 64) respective purposes. Environmental forest areas make up 18,000 hectares, or about 20%, of the company’s domestic Sugenuma Forest • Support the activities of the Shirane-aoi, company-owned forests and are home to a wide variety of (Gunma Prefecture) Glaucidium palmatum Preservation Group plant and animal species. Kanto (see page 42) Chubu 5 k ha Chugoku 5 k ha 5 k ha Kinki Hardwood 1% Other 4% 2 k ha • Has acquired forest certifications for all Shikoku company-owned forests (see page 27) Other softwood 3% 1 k ha Native forests 55% Kyushu Japanese larch 4% 18 k ha Toyono Forest • Maintains approximately 20% of company-owned forests as environmental Hardwood 43% (Kumamoto Prefecture) forest areas (see page 28) Japanese cypress 6% Spruce, fir 9% • Allocates approximately ¥0.7 billion each • Holds the School of Friendship for year to the maintenance of company-owned Japanese cedar 9% Forests and Paper within forests (see page 28) company-owned forests to provide hands-on courses on the natural • Engages in forest management that takes Pine 9% Spruce, fir 8% environment (see page 64) into consideration biodiversity (see page 40) Planted forests 41% Other softwood 4% Total 90 k ha * “k ha” = thousand hectares 28 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Domestic timber sales results by product type (Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) Case Forest Management and (1,000 m3) Domestic unprocessed timber Products made with Japanese timber 1,000 935 Producing Seedlings from Specified 736 773 832 632 703 Japanese Cedar Mother Trees Raw Material Procurement 529 500 In its overseas afforestation operations, Nippon Paper Responsibility Industries Co., Ltd. developed technology for using 0 cuttings to produce seedlings. It is now using that 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) technology to produce seedlings of specified mother trees* in Kyushu. Amid expectations of expanded regeneration logging and reforestation in areas • Efforts Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources to use more domestic wood as a raw material throughout Japan, the Japanese government is actively for paper promoting the use of environmentally friendly species. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is working to increase the Having developed technology that enables the use of percentage of domestically produced wood it uses to make shoots as small as 10 cm in length as cuttings (Normally, shoots used for this are 40 cm.), the company is now paper. Having reached 30% in fiscal 2008, this figure rose able to propagate large numbers of cuttings from to 36.1% in fiscal 2017. We aim to carry on with our efforts specified Japanese cedar mother trees in a short time. to help invigorate Japan’s forest industry by using Japanese Currently, cuttings of these trees are being propagated in a large scion plantation located in Hitoyoshi City in timber whenever possible. Kumamoto Prefecture. Amid concerns of a Domestic timber utilization rate1 nationwide shortage of (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) seedlings, in general, (%) The Nippon Paper Group’s domestic timber utilization rate (raw material for paper) Nippon Paper Industries Pulp and chip wood self-sufficiency rate (calendar year)2 is applying its proprietary Japan’s wood self-sufficiency rate (calendar year)3 production technology in 37.2 37.4 40 34.7 34.4 36.5 35.8 36.8 36.1 locations across the country 32.4 31.5 31.9 to produce seedlings that 34.5 30 31.1 31.0 33.7 30.8 31.1 32.0 31.5 Seedlings grown from cuttings will help to stabilize supply 28.6 29.6 of specified Japanese cedar and make forestry in Japan a 26.0 26.6 27.9 mother trees 20 growth industry. * Specified Japanese cedar mother trees: Trees from species the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 0 has designated as being special for their rapid growth, outstanding 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) CO2 sequestration capability, and low pollen production. 1 The domestic (Japan) timber utilization rate includes sawmill residues. 2 Source: Yearbook of Paper and Pulp Statistics issued by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan 3 Source: Supply and Demand of Lumber (Lumber material self-sufficiency rate) issued by the Forestry Agency of Japan Case • Organizing private-sector forest owners in Kyushu SGEC-certified Wood from the Kitayama Increasing the competitiveness of Japan’s forest industry Company-owned Forest Supplied requires that forest owners work not by themselves but for Use in Building the Mt. Fuji World together with owners of neighboring forests to undertake Heritage Center, Shizuoka work such as road building and logging, and measures to In January 2018, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (NPI) protect against damage by wildlife. and Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. (NPL) provided In 2011, Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd. signed an lumber to the Exhibition Building Wooden Grid Project of the Mt. Fuji World Heritage Center, Shizuoka. agreement with the Kyushu Regional Forest Office; Oji The exhibition building features latticework walls Forest & Products Co., Ltd.; Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd.; made completely of SGEC-certified Japanese cypress. and others to promote forest management in the Itsuki Through local and cross-industrial cooperation, it region of Kyushu. Since then it has entered into additional became the first building in Japan to acquire the SGEC/ PEFC CoC Project Certification. agreements, which together with the one mentioned above, NPI supplied lumber for the project from its Kitayama cover four areas of Kyushu and provide for public-private Forest, the first SGEC-certified forest in Japan. NPL cooperation in forest management. Moreover, in 2016, the managed the supply of lumber to the construction company entered into an agreement to promote forest site and is the first SGEC CoC-certified company in management in the Mt. Fuji Seiroku area, on the west side Japan. Together, NPI and of Mt. Fuji, together with the Shizuoka District Forest Office, NPL successfully delivered a part of the Japanese Forestry Agency’s Kanto Regional SGEC-certified wood from Forest Office; the Fuji Agriculture and Forestry Office of the forest where it was sourced to the project site Shizuoka Prefecture; Fujinomiya City; and others. Under where it was used. Mt. Fuji World Heritage Center, this agreement, the signers are creating a model project for Shizuoka demonstrating the benefits of centrally managing work across adjacent privately and publicly held forests. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 29 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Overseas Afforestation Growing trees as a renewable resource, and coexisting with local communities Sustainable Management of Overseas raw materials through repeated cycles of growing and Afforested Areas harvesting trees. The Tree Farm Initiative manifests Nippon Developing an afforestation business that Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s concept for overseas contributes to the local community afforestation projects. Presently, the Company oversees 88 thousand hectares Recognizing the importance of mutual development the (as of December 31, 2017) of afforested areas in Brazil, Nippon Paper Group strives to build positive ties with the Chile, Australia, and South Africa. local communities in and around its forests. In accordance with our Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw • Afforestation projects that help the local ecology Materials Procurement (see page 24), we pay particular The Nippon Paper Group performs afforestation work on attention to the concerns of local residents while taking into grasslands, former farms and pastures and on harvested consideration the cultures and traditions of each region as plantation land. We select species, focusing mainly on well as the natural environment and ecosystems. fast-growing Eucalyptus, according to individual climatic Considerable effort is also placed on promoting educational conditions and materials available for making paper. activities, and creating employment opportunities, within In order to maintain a balance between areas planted local economies. with Eucalyptus and the biodiversity needs of each region, we implement appropriate measures and keep native • Acquisition of forest certifications (see pages 26-27) waterside forests where the potential effects on the ecology • Engages in forest management that takes into consideration biodiversity (see pages 40-41) are large. • Coexisting with local communities (Employment support, respect for indigenous people, see page 63) Tree Farm Initiative Nurturing renewable wood resources Tree planting that preserves riparian forests. (Right) The blue area indicates riparian In similar fashion to the cultivation of crops in the field, the forests. Tree Farm Initiative achieves sustainable procurement of Overview of overseas forests under Nippon Paper Group management (as of December 31, 2017) Total forest area: Australia Afforested area: 11 k ha 88 k ha Company Name Background Nippon Paper Resources Wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Australia Pty. Ltd. (NPR) (Manages PTP and BTP (see the table below)) Brazil Afforested area: 53 k ha Company Name Background Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. (AMCEL) Wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Chile Afforested area: 13 k ha South Africa Afforested area: 11 k ha Company Name Background Company Name Background Joint-venture company established by Forest Resources (Pty) Joint-venture company established by Nippon Paper Volterra S.A. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Ltd. (Forestco) Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Corporation and BayFibre Corporation and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. * “k ha” = thousand hectares Status of forest certification acquisition for overseas afforestation projects Overseas plantation project by operating company Certification system name (License no.) Date of acquisition PTP (Australia) AFS June 2006 BTP (Australia) AFS April 2006 FSC® (FSC®C120260) January 2014, Volterra (Chile) CERTFORCHILE December 2007 Forestco (South Africa) FSC® (FSC®C012171) April 2003 FSC® (FSC®C023383) December 2008, AMCEL (Brazil) CERFLOR September 2014 30 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group contributes to the building of a sustainable recyclingoriented society by minimizing environmental impacts at every stage of its value chain. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.'s Shari company owned Forest Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2017) Materiality Climate Change Initiatives Greenhouse gas emissions Reduce by 10% compared to the fiscal 2013 Reduced 3.9% result, by fiscal 2020 Materiality Reduction of Environmental Impacts Waste recycling rate Increase to 98% or higher by fiscal 2020 98.6% Materiality Preserving Biodiversity Forest certifications for company-owned forests 100% 100% Check for rare species prior to harvesting 100% 100% in company-owned forests Policy and Management 32 Climate Change Initiatives 36 Promoting Recycling 39 Basic Stance / Environmental Action Plan Helping to build a low-carbon society / Initiatives for Using Wastepaper / (Green Action Plan) / Environmental Reducing greenhouse gas emissions / Recycling Industrial Waste Management Promotion Structure / Fuel conversion initiatives / Initiatives for Strengthening Environmental Compliance Saving Energy in Manufacturing / Environmental Communication / Processes / Advancing Energy Efficiency Preserving Biodiversity 40 Environmental Education and Training for in Logistics / Absorbing and Sequestering Basic Stance / Initiatives Leveraging Our Employees CO2 through Proper Management of Resources and Technologies Company-Owned Forests Reduction of Environmental Impacts 35 Basic Stance / Effective Use of Water Resources / Controlling Chemical Substances / Preventing Soil Pollution / Preventing Noise and Vibration * The reporting scope for environmental data is described on page 3. In cases where a different reporting scope is used a notification to that effect is provided. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 31 Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management We are putting in place a Group-wide environmental management system based on our Environmental Charter and engaging in environmentally friendly corporate activities. Basic Stance Environmental Management Promotion Structure Reducing our environmental impacts Building a group-wide structure Acting in accordance with the Nippon Paper Group The Management Execution Committee (MEC) makes Environmental Charter, the Nippon Paper Group strives to environmental strategy decisions for the Nippon Paper reduce environmental impacts at every stage of its value Group, and leads the Group's environmental activities. The chain by selecting equipment that is appropriate for its Environmental Charter constitutes the environmental operations and by striving to maximize efficiency in its management principles of individual Group companies. The daily use. Nippon Paper Group Environmental Committee manages progress in implementing the charter's philosophy and policies under the Environmental Action Plan and reports to The Nippon Paper Group the MEC. The MEC makes decisions on new initiatives to Environmental Charter lead the Group's environmental activities and promote (Established on March 30, 2001, and revised on March 30, 2007) ongoing improvement. Philosophy The Nippon Paper Group is committed to helping The Nippon Paper Group’s environmental management preserve the global environment over the long term promotion structure (as of March 31, 2018) and contributing to the development of a recycling Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. President and Representative Director based society by carrying out its corporate activities in recognition of the importance of biodiversity. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Management Execution Committee Basic Policy Report Approve 1. Act to counter global warming The Nippon Paper Group Environment Committee 2. Protect and develop forest resources Chairperson: Executive officer responsible for environmental management at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 3. Increase use of recycled resources 4. Comply with environmental statutes and work to Executive officer, minimize our environmental impact Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Environment & Safety Department 5. Develop environmentally friendly technologies and products Group companies in Japan Group companies outside of Japan 6. Engage in active environmental communication • Strengthening environmental management systems At the Nippon Paper Group, the environmental departments Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan) at our headquarters and production facilities work together Setting forth specific objectives to strengthen the environmental management systems. and actions Nippon Paper Industries, for example, has adopted a system for centrally managing emissions from the boilers of The Nippon Paper Group has established its Environmental individual mills. This effort illustrates how simultaneous Action Plan the Green Action Plan (GAP) – in accordance monitoring by the company’s headquarters and production with the six basic policies expressed in its Environmental facilities ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and Charter. Group companies have each established their own reduces environmental impact. specific environmental action plans to reflect their own individual business circumstances based on the GAP. Their • Introducing environmental management systems efforts to fulfill these plans are enhancing our ability to As one measure aimed at promoting environmental accomplish the GAP. management, the Nippon Paper Group is introducing Since fiscal 2016, we have been working to achieve various environmental management systems including ISO GAP objectives for fiscal 2020 under the Environmental 14001, the international standard for environmental Action Plan the Green Action Plan 2020. management, and Eco-Action 21. ISO 14001 certifications Framework for achieving objectives have been obtained by 71% The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Charter of the principal production sites of Nippon Paper The Nippon Paper Group’s Environmental Action Plan Industries Co., Ltd. and its Green Action Plan (GAP) consolidated subsidiaries. ISO 14001 renewal inspection Environmental Action Plans of Group Companies Please refer to the following web page for information on conditions with regard to ISO14001 and Eco-Action 21 certifications. http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/2018.3_ ISO14001_e.pdf 32 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2020) Fiscal 2017 Progress Report Green Action Plan 2020 Progress Page Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 3.9% compared to fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 20131. by taking steps such as updating facilities and moving forward with fuel 36 conversion. 1. Anti-global warming action • Continuously working to reduce CO2 emissions by shortening Reduce logistics-generated CO2 emissions. transportation distances and advancing highly efficient modal shift 37 transport. Advance domestic company-owned forest operations and the overseas afforestation • As of the end of 2017, total afforested areas came to 88 thousand 30 project (Tree Farm Initiative) to ensure the hectares. sustainable nurturing of forest resources. Maintain forest certifications in all proprietary • Currently maintaining FSC®2, PEFC, and SGEC certification for 178 27, 28, Environmental Responsibility forests, both domestically and internationally. thousand hectares of company-owned forests in Japan and overseas. 30 2. Protection and Ensure that all wood materials for pulp and • Using only PEFCor FSC® -certified wood materials (including controlled development of paper are endorsed under forest certification 27 schemes. material and controlled wood) for pulp and paper. forest resources • In working to enhance traceability through the use of forest certifications, Enhance traceability and facilitate the cleared the requirements of PEFC rules in their entirety and FSC® rules to procurement of sustainable forest resources. 26, 27 94% with respect to the assessment of imported wood chip risk. In the assessment of purchased pulp risk, cleared all FSC® and PEFC rules. Advance the use of wood fiber produced • Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. used domestically produced wood for from domestically grown trees to promote 36% of its needs. 25, 29 Policy and Management sound growth of forest resources in Japan. Promote greater use of wastepaper by • As a result of vigorous efforts to use wastepaper, wastepaper pulp achieving advances in wastepaper utilization accounted for 35% of pulp used to produce paper, and 89% of pulp 39 3. Recycling of technologies. used to produce paperboard. resources Increase the waste recycling rate to at • Waste recycling rate came to 98.6% because of efforts to reduce waste least 98%.1 generation and to recycle boiler ash. 39 Use the environmental management system • ISO14001 and other environmental management system standards 4. Observance to strengthen environmental management are being implemented in locations with high environmental impact to 32 of environmentand reduce environmental impact. ensure regulatory compliance and reduce environmental impact. related laws and reduction of Properly manage chemical substances environmental in accordance with the Nippon Paper • Records on chemical substance types and amounts handled are being load kept, and safety data sheets are being used, to properly manage 35 Group Chemical Substance Management chemical substances. Guidelines. • Approved the establishment of a test production facility for Minerpa®, a functional material that is a composite of minerals and cellulose fiber, and offers excellent anti-odor, antibacterial, fire-resistance, and radiation shielding properties. The facility will be built at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.'s Fuji Mill, with startup planned for October 2018. Enhance the more sophisticated use of • A production facility (annual capacity of 500 tonnes) for industrial wood materials. TEMPO-oxidized CNF began operating in April 2017 at Nippon Paper 9, 49 Industries Co., Ltd.'s Ishinomaki Mill. A production facility (annual capacity of 10 tonnes) for CNF-reinforced resin began operating at the Fuji Mill in June 2017. A production facility (annual capacity of 30 tonnes) for CM-CNF for use as a food and cosmetics additive began 5. Development operating at the Gotsu Mill in September 2017. of eco-friendly technologies and products Develop equipment technology for facilitating • At the Thai torrefied pellet test production facility, developed technology 37 a departure from reliance on fossil energy. for manufacturing fuel for co-firing in a pulverized-coal-fired boiler. • Nippon Paper Venti Wind Power Co., Ltd. began wind power business operations in January 2018 at a location adjacent to Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Akita Mill. Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Energy Center Reduce the environmental load through Ltd. began biomass mixed combustion power generation operations in the provision of ecofriendly products and March 2018. Through these and other initiatives, the Group is advancing 7, 9, services. renewable energy businesses that are environmentally friendly. 39 • Sold CfFA® concrete admixture (making effective use of pulverized-coal boiler ash from Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.'s Ishinomaki Mill) for use in disaster recovery construction in the Tohoku region of Japan. Disclose environment-related information to • Shared risk information and invigorated dialogue with local communities stakeholders and accelerate environmental through publication of the Sustainability Report and through 34 communication through dialogue and other environmental risk communication efforts undertaken at individual mills. 6. Environmental means. communication • Actively participated in environmental protection endeavors including Proactively participate in and support clean-up and greening initiatives organized by local communities, while 62, 64 environment conservation activities. promoting various activities including mill tours and internships. Advance companywide biodiversity initiatives • Signed and began implementing an agreement with the Kyushu 7. Biodiversity Regional Forest Office of Japan’s Forest Agency to eradicate invasive commitments in accordance with the Basic Policy on the species and perform other forest conservation activities in a national 63 Preservation of Biodiversity. forest on Iriomote Island. 1 Production sites in Japan. 2 FSC® Logo License No.FSC®C120260, FSC®C012171, FSC®C023383 Environment performance data https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/2018_DATA_ SECTION_e.pdf Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 33 Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management Strengthening Environmental Compliance Environmental Communication Taking action in a two-pronged approach Reflecting feedback into our environmental activities The Nippon Paper Group is strengthening its environmental compliance by preventing problems and establishing a The Nippon Paper Group engages in environmental risk framework that ensures all problems come to light. communication with local residents and government In fiscal 2017, we were not penalized for any authorities, as provided in the Nippon Paper Group Risk environmental regulation violations. Communication Guidelines. In cases such as the installation of large-scale equipment, we also conduct explanatory meetings To bolster environmental compliance beforehand to provide a better understanding of any impact on the environment from installation work and operation of 1. Building systems to prevent problems • Building a workplace that emphasizes the importance the installed facilities. of the environment (environmental compliance training) • Strengthening the system for identifying applicable laws and regulations • Responses to opinions and complaints • Implementing measures from both the facility and In addition to receiving opinions and inquiries via its technology perspectives website, the Nippon Paper Group has established a 2. Establishing a framework that ensures all problems come to light complaint and inquiry contact at each of its mills. We have • Implementing environmental audits also adopted environmental monitoring systems and take • Employing an environmental management system • Engaging in environmental communication and active other steps to encourage input from local residents. information disclosure When a complaint is received, we move swiftly to determine possible causes, and implement emergency and permanent solutions. We also explain to the person who •For identifying relevant laws lodged the complaint what happened and what we did to To accurately respond to wide-ranging and relatively resolve the situation, so that they can be satisfied that we frequent changes in environmental legislation, Nippon have responded appropriately. Paper Industries has implemented a legal and regulatory search system. No. of environment-related complaints in Japan (fiscal 2017) Complaints No. Complaints No. • Introducing equipment and measurement devices to prevent environmental accidents Noise 6 Vibration 0 Dust and mist dispersal 3 Smoke 0 Nippon Paper Industries identifies risks of environmental Odor 1 Other 1 accidents in terms of both probability and potential impact, Total 11 and introduces the equipment and facilities needed for prevention. Acting to prevent major chemical and oil spills considered a top priority again in fiscal 2017 the Environmental Education and Training for Employees company took steps like installing liquid containment walls and measurement devices. Supporting employees to learn • Environmental and risk control audits emphasizing legal compliance The Nippon Paper Group provides basic to specialized environmental education covering topics such as Nippon Paper Group ensures legal compliance through wastewater treatment plant operation. In addition, the internal audits conducted at its various business locations Group encourages employees to participate in external and environmental audits by Nippon Paper Industry's head training and take advantage of other opportunities to gain office Environment & Safety Department. These audits are pollution prevention qualifications and expertise. based on guidelines issued by the Japanese government. To help elevate the environmental protection awareness In performing environmental audits, environmental of employees, we also hold the Nippon Paper Group management records are examined and on-site inspections Eco-Photo Contest and conduct environmental e-learning. are performed. A system of mutual audits has also been These activities take place in the month of June – put in place by the Group as an additional step to Environment Month in Japan. strengthen compliance and risk control. In 2018, large numbers of employees participated in our e-learning programs, which focused on the Energy Saving Act*. * Act on the Rationalizing Use of Energy 34 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental Responsibility Reduction of Environmental Impacts Assessing environmental issues from multiple perspectives and reducing our environmental impacts Basic Stance Controlling Chemical Substances Aiming to minimize Working to properly manage environmental impacts chemical substances It is impossible to completely eliminate the environmental The Nippon Paper Group examines the chemical impacts of the business activities that provide the goods substances it uses in its production processes in and services society requires. Nevertheless, we believe that accordance with its Chemical Substance Management companies can contribute to the building of a sustainable Guidelines. We do this in exercising risk management that society by minimizing these impacts. monitors how much of these substances we use and how Environmental Responsibility When products are made, energy and water are used, much we release into the environment. and waste; greenhouse gases; sulfur oxide (SOx), nitrogen We disclose information on our management, release, oxide (NOx), and other air pollutants; and wastewater and transfer of PRTR*-controlled substances to local containing organic and other substances are generated. To stakeholders through environmental risk communications at minimize its environmental impacts, the Nippon Paper Group each of our mills and other production sites. In fiscal 2017, uses equipment and technologies to reduce the presence of the Nippon Paper Group released 166 tonnes of PRTRthese substances in its discharges to levels within standards controlled substances and transferred 77 tonnes. set by various environmental laws and regulations. * The Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) is a system for monitoring the movement of chemical substances posing risks to human health or ecosystems. Policy and Management / Under the PRTR system, businesses track the amounts of these chemicals they Key Environmental Performance Indicators have released into the environment or transferred to other business locations and https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/2018_ report this information to government authorities. DATA_SECTION_e.pdf Amounts of substances subject to the PRTR Law released and transferred Effective Use of Water Resources Reduction of Environmental Impacts https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/2018.3_PRTR_ e.pdf Effectively using water resources in manufacturing processes Preventing Soil Pollution The manufacturing of paper requires large volumes of water. One example is the wet end of the papermaking process, in Fiscal 2017, another year free of which pulp fiber from woodchips and wastepaper is soil contamination dispersed in water to eventually create thin sheets. The Nippon Paper Group’s papermaking process The raw materials and chemicals used by Nippon Paper efficiently and effectively uses water resources, which are a Group mills contain almost no heavy metals, form of natural capital. It does this by recovering “white trichloroethylene or other soil contaminants. water,” which contains very fine pulp fibers from the wet Fiscal 2017 was another year in which there were no end of the papermaking process, removing the fibers instances of contaminated soil generated at Group companies. through a treatment process, and then sending the removed fibers to the pulp blending chest and returning the Preventing Noise and Vibration water to the wet end of the manufacturing process. Using IoT to Prevent Complaints Water Recycling System Wastepaper pulp Chemical pulp Mechanical pulp Pulp and paper mills use large machines incorporating numerous motors that generate noise and vibration. Recovered Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and NIPPON PAPER pulp fiber UNITEC CO., LTD. have developed the e-musen junkai” Blending chest White water (e-wireless patrol) system, which uses wireless sensors to treatment plant constantly monitor equipment for signs of abnormalities Recycled use (see page 46). This system uses IoT technology to White Wet end water accumulate temperature and vibration acceleration data on (forms fibers into sheets) White water silo (water equipment in operation. By analyzing trends in this data to containing pulp fibers) uncover abnormalities e-musen junkai” System Dryer section early on, this system (dries sheets) Wireless helps to prevent serious Pulp fiber flow equipment problems Product Water flow and avoid vibration, noise, and other PC complaints by local Base unit Remote unit residents. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 35 Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Initiatives Reducing greenhouse gas emissions at every stage of our business activities Helping to build a low-carbon society Fuel conversion initiatives Advancing effective initiatives wellActively using biomass and waste fuels suited for our businesses to reduce fossil energy usage The Nippon Paper Group has installed two types of • Three core initiatives boilers—high-efficiency boilers and boilers capable of Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and the Japan burning construction waste and other woody biomass Paper Association both support the creation of a lowfuels; used tires; RPF*; and other waste fuels. Our ongoing carbon society, and the Nippon Paper Group, as a member conversion to these fuels allows us to reduce our usage of of both organizations, is actively working to reduce fossil fuels. emissions of greenhouse gases. This fuel conversion initiative helps to prevent global To achieve objectives in our Environmental Action Plan warming and slow the depletion of fossil resources. Green Action Plan 2020 – (see page 33) we are (1) As a result of energy saving activities and fuel converting to non-fossil energy (see page 36), (2) conversion, the Group’s fossil energy usage ratio (in terms conserving energy in each of our production and logistics of heating value) in Japan fell to 52% in fiscal 2017, processes (see page 37), and (3) managing proprietary compared to 66% in fiscal 1990. forests properly to ensure CO2 absorption/sequestration * RPF (Refuse paper and plastic fuel): Fuel derived from paper that is unusable as recycled paper and from waste plastic. (see page 38), all of which will fight global warming across every stage of our business activities. Change in fossil energy usage ratio (calories)(Japan) Non-fossil energy Non-fossil energy Nippon Paper Group environmental initiatives 34 % 48% Prevention of Global Warming Fiscal Fiscal 1990 2017 Reduction of CO2 emissions Sequestration of CO2 in from operations proprietary forests Fossil energy Fossil energy 66% 52 % Carbon Fuel conversion Energy saving sequestration Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Working to achieve objectives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions Construction waste and RPF Used tires other materials In its Environmental Action Plan Green Action Plan 2020 (see page 33) the Nippon Paper Group has established the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions 10% One of the leading corporate users of compared to the fiscal 2013 level. In fiscal 2017, we woody biomass energy in Japan reduced our emissions 3.9% compared to the fiscal 2013 The Nippon Paper Group actively applies woody level through equipment consolidation/update and other biomass fuel from sources such as black liquor and energy-saving investments and further conversion to construction waste. The amount consumed accounts for up to 5%* of non-fossil energy (excluding nuclear and non-fossil energy. hydroelectric power) used in Japan. The Nippon Paper Group is one of the leading corporate users of woody Progress Report for the Green Action Plan 2020 biomass energy in Japan. Environmental Action Plan * In-house data prepared by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. using Greenhouse gas emissions (Japan*) energy supply information (fiscal 2016 finalized information) published by the Natural Resources and Energy Agency. (Million t-CO2) Period covered by 10 Green Action Plan 2020 Biomass energy utilization at the Nippon Paper Group 8 7.28 7.18 7.12 7.17 6.99 3.9% reduction 6.55 6 vs. fiscal 2013 level Photosynthesis 4 Vegetation Construction Wooden housing Biomass and waste materials waste boiler 2 Biomass Use of 0 fuel energy to make products 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 (FY) Pulp (Base fiscal year) (Target fiscal year) * For companies covered by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. These consist of certain consolidated group companies in Japan and certain nonconsolidated Woodchips Black liquor Recovery boiler subsidiaries in Japan. 36 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Advancing Energy Efficiency in Logistics • Development of a new biomass solid fuel Trees absorb CO2 from the atmosphere, so when woody Working to promote green logistics biomass fuel is burned there is no net impact on atmospheric CO2 – woody biomass fuel, in other words, is The Nippon Paper Group focuses mainly on the two core carbon neutral. initiatives of improving its loading efficiency and Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is developing shortening transportation distances to reduce logisticstorrefaction technology as a method for making an related CO2 emissions. alternative to coal as a fuel for thermal power generation. This approach uses woody biomass that is the product of Logistics-related initiatives Environmental Responsibility the company’s wealth of afforestation, forest management, Green Logistics and woody biomass collection experience. Torrefaction technology uses relatively low heat to Shortening carbonize woody biomass. This produces a fuel that retains Improving loading efficiency transportation distances most of the pre-processing heating value, offers good Promoting a modal Pursuing direct shift to rail or delivery and grindability, and is sufficiently water-resistant for outside marine transportation joint delivery storage. Woody fuel made with torrefaction technology can be used as a substitute for coal in firing existing thermal Climate Change Initiatives power plants and, therefore, can help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. • Promoting a modal shift in transportation to secure high loading efficiency Currently, a demonstration test is underway at a torrefaction The Nippon Paper Group is advancing its use of modal shift facility in Thailand and combustion transport to reduce CO2 emissions from long-distance testing is moving forward at the Torrefaction demonstration shipping. We are doing this by using mainly rail and domestic facility (Thailand) Kushiro Mill. marine transport to move large volumes of cargo with every trip. At 88%, Nippon Paper Industries is maintaining a high modal shift rate. Initiatives for Saving Energy in * Modal shift rate: Manufacturing Processes The percentage of rail or marine (including coastal shipping and ferries) transport in general cargo transported over 500 kilometers. Applying energy-saving techniques developed in Japan at overseas Comparison of modal shift rates production sites Paper manufacturing industry average 77% (Fiscal 2016: Data released by the Japan The Nippon Paper Group includes overseas members that Paper Association) are operating paper and paperboard businesses in Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 88% (Fiscal 2017 paper operations) Australia, Thailand, and other countries. Climate change is 0 20 40 60 80 100 an issue of serious concern in countries throughout the world. We, therefore, are working to reduce greenhouse • Working with logistics service providers to shorten transportation distances gas emissions by having companies exchange information on what they have done to save energy effectively. The Nippon Paper Group is working with logistics service The Hokkaido Mill (Asahikawa) of Nippon Paper providers to bypass warehouses and deliver products Industries Co., Ltd., for example, successfully reduced their directly to customers. This effort is intended to reduce CO2 energy usage by finding a way to decrease the amount of emissions by shortening overall transportation distances. steam they use to dry pulp sheets into paper in the dryer sections of their paper machines. With their technique, an Reducing the total distance by direct delivery from paper mills agent is used within the hollow shell roll to form a waterMarine, rail and truck transportation repellent film that sheds condensation and improves heat conduction efficiency. Warehouse Customer for whom direct delivery means Siam Nippon Industrial shorter overall transportation distance Paper Co., Ltd., located in Paper mill Thailand, has adopted this Direct delivery Transportation technique and is working in fiscal 2018 to achieve Dryer section of Siam Nippon Industrial energy savings. Paper Co., Ltd.’s Yankee machine Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 37 Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Initiatives • Obtaining Green Management Certifications Absorbing and Sequestering CO2 through Proper Management of Company-Owned Forests Green Management Certifications are awarded and registered by the Foundation for Promoting Personal Sequestering atmospheric CO2 through Mobility and Ecological Transportation. Companies that proper forest management and the use undertake at least a certain minimum level of initiatives of wood based on the Green Management Promotion Manual are eligible for these certifications. • Sequestering CO with 178 thousand hectares of forests in and outside Japan 2 Within the Nippon Paper Group, 16 business locations of 8 Group companies have received Green Management As trees grow, they absorb and sequester CO2 from the Certification. The Nippon Paper Group is actively atmosphere. It is widely recognized, therefore, that implementing ecological driving, vehicle inspection and protection of forests through proper management maintenance, reduction of vehicle disposal and waste contributes to the fight against global warming. generation, proper waste handling and recycling, and other The Nippon Paper Group manages 178 thousand practices consistent with green management. hectares of forests, 90 thousand hectares in Japan and 88 thousand hectares across four countries abroad. Through Green Management Certifications (As of July 1, 2018) sustainable forest management, the Group maintains the Company CO2 absorption and sequestration capabilities of trees. NIPPON PAPER LOGISTICS, Kyokushin Transport, Nanko Logistics These forests, both in and outside Japan, continuously Support, Hotoku, NP Unyu Kanto, NP Unyu Fuji, NP Unyu Kansai, and sequester approximately 33 million tonnes of CO2. NP Unyu Iwakuni We are helping to prevent global warming not only by * Consolidated and non-consolidated subsidiaries in Japan reducing greenhouse gas emissions but also by protecting forests. • Building a sustainable logistics system Establishment of the Study Group for Joint Usage of Pallets for Household Paper Products Sequestering CO2 in various Household paper products, such as tissue paper and toilet wood products paper, are bulky, yet lightweight. Therefore, shipping CO2 sequestered in trees as carbon remains vehicles carrying these items are loaded and unloaded sequestered even after trees have been processed into manually, without the use of pallets, as a way to improve products like construction materials and paper. Products loading efficiency. However, amid a constant labor shortage, made from wood, therefore, work to prevent increases in this approach has resulted in problems such as drivers atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Using wood products and actively recycling wastepaper, in other words, by being tied up for long periods of time and excessive wait fixing CO2 for extended periods of time in products, times for distribution vehicles. helps to hold down increases in atmospheric CO2 To address these problems, Nippon Paper Crecia Co., concentrations. Ltd. and three other manufacturers of household paper Moreover, when wood products like construction materials reach the end of their useful lives they can be products, plus UPR Corporation, a provider of pallet and used as carbon-neutral biomass fuel, the burning of logistics services, established the Study Group for Joint which does not increase atmospheric CO2. Usage of Pallets for Household Paper Products. This organization aims to create an energy-saving, sustainable Helping to prevent global warming through the cascade-use of wood* logistics system by constructing a scheme for the joint use and recovery of uniform pallets and using it as a basis for Forests CO2 mechanizing loading and unloading work, and improving CO2 CO2 Materials the efficiency of freight handling in other ways as well. The four household paper products manufacturers will gradually ( Paper, construction materials, and other forestry products ) Energy (Biomass fuel) begin to use uniform pallets in the fall 2018. Lumber logs, chips, etc. Construction waste materials, forest residues, CO2 black liquor, etc. CO2 光合成 植物 Scheme for the Joint Use and Collection of Uniform Pallets 木材チップ 黒液 回収ボイラー Rent バイオマス Pallet rental Manufacturer’s Products Customer 燃料 パルプ depot plant Forests and forestry products, as The use of biomass fuels in carbon reservoirs, play a role in place of fossil fuels helps to preventing global warming. prevent global warming. 木造住宅 建築廃材 バイオマス Joint recovery ボイラー Manufacturer’s Customer plant Products * “Cascade-use” refers to the full use of an individual tree for applications across the quality scale, from ones requiring very high quality to others Rent for which quality is not a consideration, for maximum efficiency in resource usage. 38 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental Responsibility Promoting Recycling Contributing to the development of a recycling-based society Initiatives for Using Wastepaper Recycling Industrial Waste Actively promoting paper recycling Working to make effective use of waste, while reducing waste generation Despite efforts to secure forest resources through sustainable forest management, wastepaper is a very Under the Environmental Action Plan, GAP 2020 (see page important resource for the paper industry. 33), the Group is working to increase its waste recycling The Nippon Paper Group is promoting paper recycling rate to at least 98%. by working with customers to build wastepaper recycling To reduce the amount of industrial waste sent for final systems, and by collaborating with citizens’ and industry disposal by burial in landfills or by other means, we have Environmental Responsibility groups to conduct educational activities on wastepaper revised production processes and have developed ways to collection. The Group has also been working to further effectively use boiler ash as a construction material and for expand the use of wastepaper by developing technology other purposes. As a result, our waste recycling rate rose to for using types of paper that have proven difficult to recycle. 98.6% in fiscal 2017. As paper and paperboard demand grows outside Japan, it is becoming more difficult to procure sufficient Progress in Implementing the Environmental Action Plan amounts of wastepaper in Japan. We, however, will Green Action Plan 2020 Waste generated and final waste disposal in Japan continue with efforts to expand both wastepaper collection Climate Change Initiatives / Promoting Recycling (1,000 tonnes) Waste generated Final waste disposal and the kinds of wastepaper that can be recycled. 800 736 762 704 690 638 600 Recycled paper utilization rate by the Nippon Paper Group in Japan 400 (%) Paper Paperboard 98.6% 100 90 92 89 89 89 recycled 50 30 14 17 11 9 50 39 38 38 38 35 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Case • Paper-Pak carton collection initiatives Project for making and selling CfFA® The Committee for Milk Container Environmental Issues (an (Carbon-free Fly Ash), a concrete organization composed mainly of container manufacturers admixture that makes effective use of and manufacturers of dairy products) has set the goal of coal ash increasing the beverage carton collection rate to at least 50% by 2020. In December 2017, the collection rate for Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is manufacturing and selling CfFA®, a concrete admixture made from coal fiscal 2016 was determined to be 44.3%, an increase of ash a byproduct from the coal-fired power plant at the 1.2% compare to the previous fiscal year. Company’s Ishinomaki Mill. Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd. is a member of the CfFA® consists of fly ash from which unburned committee and is gradually installing Paper-Pak collection carbon, a material that can have a negative effect on concrete quality, has been removed through a heat boxes at Group company locations. It modification process. It has been used for disaster is also conducting education initiatives recovery construction (bridges, seawalls, etc.), mainly to increase employee awareness of in the Tohoku region of Japan, and in precast and other the importance of recycling. The concrete products, and is gradually being adopted for a widening variety of applications. Going forward, company views Paper-Pak collection the Company will continue to focus on having CfFA® as an activity that promotes effective contribute to high-quality infrastructure construction. use of resources throughout society and, together with commercial collectors, has begun to encourage schools and other types of institutions Paper-Pak collection and organizations to recycle. box installed at a Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd. Location Piers for the Chinju Bridge in Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 39 Environmental Responsibility Preserving Biodiversity Pursuing activities that protect the ecosystems of company-owned forests and leverage proprietary resources and technologies Basic Stance reduce our impact on biodiversity by, for example, treating Formulation of a new basic policy wastewater and controlling greenhouse gas emissions in our manufacturing processes. The business activities of the Nippon Paper Group entail the cultivation and utilization of forests and, therefore, have an inherently significant and wide-ranging impact on forest Basic Policy on the Preservation biodiversity. We recognize that the sustainable use of of Biodiversity forests is fundamental to our existence and development as (Established April 1, 2016) a going concern. The basic philosophy of the Nippon Paper Principle Group Environmental Charter (see page 32) states that the The Nippon Paper Group, a corporate group Nippon Paper Group will engage in corporate activities that to which forest resources are of fundamental recognize the importance of biodiversity. Our Basic Policies importance, appreciates the natural gifts bestowed on the Preservation of Biodiversity, established in April by biodiversity and, by preserving biodiversity, aims to help create a sustainable society that can 2016, provides guidance for the pursuit of such activities. continuously enjoy ecosystem services. Basic Policy Nippon Paper Group initiatives 1. Recognizing the protection of biodiversity as a Preserving biodiversity critical social issue, we will work to pursue business activities that are in harmony with the sustainable use of ecosystem services. Initiatives implemented in Initiatives leveraging our 2. In supply-chain management, we acknowledge the conduct of our core resources and technologies the impacts on biodiversity of cross-border use of business activities ecosystem services, and will manage our ecosystem • Protection of forest biodiversity •Use of company-owned forests service usage properly. • Reduction of environmental impacts of production activities •Use of proprietary technologies 3. In an effort to reduce environmental impacts on biodiversity, we will actively work to recycle and save resources. 4. We will promote the development of technologies, Initiatives in Our Core Business Activities products, and services that contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of Pass thriving forests on to ecosystem services. future generations 5. Endeavoring to raise employees’ awareness of biodiversity, and collaborating with stakeholders, In pursuing sustainable forest management (see pages 28 we will contribute to the building of a society that and 30), the Nippon Paper Group conducts biodiversity nurtures biodiversity. surveys in company-owned forests. We also strive to Biodiversity preservation scheme for company-owned forests Basic Policy on the Preservation of Biodiversity Designating particularly sensitive areas and limiting logging Matters to consider or confirm when performing forestry operations Japan Environmental forest areas Limiting logging and maintaining Japan Commercial forest areas (see page 28) (see page 28) existing forest ecosystems Adjustment of Location and Timing for Forestry Operations Riparian forests Preserving biodiversity by prohibiting logging Preserving Blakiston’s Fish Owl Habitat while Pursuing Forestry Operations Protected areas Protection of the Blakiston’s fish owl (see page 41) (see page 41) by prohibiting logging Presence of endangered species included in prefectural Red Lists* Overseas Conservation area / Preserving biodiversity by prohibiting logging Overseas Performance of commercial operations that are considerate of Protected forests* local biodiversity (see pages 30,41) * Areas not designated for afforestation. Riparian forests are managed as part of these areas. Biodiversity surveys (Domestic company-owned forests and overseas conservation areas / protected forests) Topography confirmation of riparian forests and other areas, fixed-point surveys of forest ecosystems, etc. Ex.) Regular surveys in overseas protected area (see page 41), surveys of Blakiston’s fish owls conducted with the Wild Bird Society of Japan, ornithological and vegetation surveys in the company-owned Kitayama Forest in Shizuoka Prefecture * List of threatened animal and plant species. Third-Party Sustainable Forest Management Validations Forest certification programs (see pages 26-27) Forest certifications have been awarded to Nippon Paper Industries in recognition of its practice of biodiversity-friendly forest management in all of its companyowned forests in Japan and overseas. Breakdown of company-owned forests in Japan according to IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) categories https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/IUCN2018_e.pdf 40 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Case Preserving Blakiston’s fish owl habitat while pursuing business activities – Collaborating with the Wild Bird Society of Japan In 2010, Nippon Paper Industries entered into an agreement preserving Blakiston’s fish owl habitat in company-owned with the Wild Bird Society of Japan where approximately forests located in the Kushiro region of Hokkaido. After 126 hectares of forestland owned by the company in the collaborative surveys conducted in an atmosphere of mutual Nemuro region of Hokkaido was identified as a sanctuary trust, we have clearly documented standards for methods for Blakiston’s fish owl. This sanctuary is home to three and timing for continuing lumber production, while also confirmed braces of this endangered species. protecting habitat and breeding activity, without establishing Environmental Responsibility In May 2015, we signed a memorandum of protected areas. understanding* for the pursuit of business activities while * The activities pursued under this memorandum of understanding were presented with a 2015 Biodiversity Action Award by the Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. Surveys undertaken with the Wild Bird Society Fiscal Year Survey Description Blakiston’s fish owl Standing 70 to 80cm high and weighing 3 to 4.5 kg, 2010 Large trees suitable as Blakiston’s ¬fish owl habitat Blakiston’s fish owl is the world’s largest owl, with 2011 Bird species habitat a wingspan of 180 cm. Formerly numbering over 1,000 and found throughout Hokkaido, Blakiston’s 2012 Nesting survey focusing on white-tailed eagles and Steller's fish owls are now found mainly in the eastern parts sea eagles, and an audio survey of nocturnal bird species of Hokkaido, with confirmed numbers of around Preserving Biodiversity 2013 Mammals and Blakiston’s ¬fish owl habitat 160, making up 70 braces. Blakiston’s fish owl was identified as a national protected species in 1971, 2014 Geographic activity scope of the Blakiston’s -fish owl and placed on the Red List of critically endangered 2015– Blakiston’s ¬fish owl habitat, other bird species habitat species by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. (Photo courtesy of the Wild Bird Society of Japan) Case Conducting biodiversity research overseas (AMCEL S.A, Brazil and Volterra S.A., Chile) AMCEL S.A., located in the Brazilian state of Amapa, owns These areas are home to large numbers of plant and approximately 300 thousand hectares of land and has set animal species, many of which are rare or endangered. aside 180 thousand hectares as a conservation area. Protecting them, therefore, is very meaningful. Both AMCEL Volterra S.A., in Chile, owns approximately 19 thousand and Volterra undertake surveys and other initiatives to hectares of forests and has designated about 5 thousand research and monitor biodiversity in the areas they are hectares as protected forests. protecting. Initiatives by afforestation companies in South America Activity Description AMCEL S.A. Regular water inspections Installation of equipment for monitoring the quality and level of water in the afforestation area, and performance of regular water inspections Cooperation in a wildlife release program Annual provision of the conservation area for use in a wildlife release program being conducted by the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources Ongoing monitoring by AMCEL following a joint mammalian habitat survey in cooperation with the university’s Collaboration with the Federal University of Para Department of Biological Sciences in afforested and other areas. Ongoing monitoring of fish populations in waters adjacent to afforested areas in cooperation with the university’s ecology research laboratory since 2016. Collaboration with the local environmental A vegetation survey was initiated in a protected area to determine the distribution and status of plant life. research institution in Amapa state Volterra S.A. Wildlife surveys in the company’s protected Using camera traps and other tools, surveys have identified mammals (including pumas) and bird species. The forests 2017 survey confirmed the existence of the “near-threatened” pudu and several rare species. Regular river surveys To research impacts of forest operations on ecosystems, surveys of river water quality and biodiversity are performed on a regular basis in company-owned afforested areas. Initiatives by AMCEL S.A. Initiatives by Volterra S.A. Monitoring of animal species Vegetation survey Pudu (a “near-threatened” species Water-quality survey on the IUCN Red List) Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 41 Environmental Responsibility Preserving Biodiversity Initiatives Leveraging Our Resources and Technologies • Use of company-owned forests Contributing to the protection of a Case variety of plant species Supporting the activities of the Shiraneaoi wo Mamoru Kai • Using proprietary technology Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is working to protect Shirane-aoi (Glaucidium palmatum: Japanese wood precious plant species. It does this by using a proprietary poppy) is designated as a “threatened II” species in the technology that encourages cuttings to take root. Red Data Book for Gunma Prefecture. To protect and breed this plant species, the Shirane-aoi Preservation This technology, which promotes photosynthesis, Group was set up in December 2000, mainly at the enables the propagation of even trees that failed to root via initiative of Gunma Prefectural Oze High School and the traditional cutting technology.This technology has enabled residents of the village of Katashina in Tone-gun, Gunma the propagation of endangered plant species and prominent Prefecture. As recognition of its achievements to date, it received the Greenery Day Minister of the Environment's cherry trees throughout Japan. It, therefore, preserves not Prize for Meritorious Service Related to the Natural only biodiversity but also history and culture. Environment in April 2014. Light Since its inception, Nippon Paper Development, Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide which manages Nippon Paper Industries’ Sugenuma Forest, has supported the operation of the Shirane-aoi Preservation Group, and Nippon Paper Industries has offered a portion of the Sugenuma Forest as a plantation site for Shirane-aoi. Since 2002, the Group employee volunteers have participated in planting, seed collection, and other activities. Even plant species that normally fail to root by cutting are able to root Planting Japanese wood poppies Results of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s cherry tree preservation activities Cherry trees of Japan’s National Cherry tree owned by Institute of Genetics, which has Shiogama Shrine and numerous cherry tree species registered as a Japanese considered to be of exceptional national treasure value. Many people visit the institute once a year, in early April, when it allows the public to view these trees. The Tatekawa cherry tree The Uwamizuzakura owned by Shinnyodo, a temple cherry tree owned in Kyoto, and said to be by Fuefuki Shrine connected to the third shogun and dating back to of the Tokugawa dynasty the end of the Miyagi 12th century. Cherry tree presented by the Kyoto Shizuoka The Hachisukazakura feudal lord Kikkawa Hiroie to Yamaguchi Nara cherry tree, estimated to Ueda Soko, a noted warrior be over 250 years old and tea master, around 1625 Tokushima Cherry tree presented by Kikkawa Hiroie to Ueda Soko (Photo courtesy of Uedaryu-Wafudou (Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan)) 42 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Responsibility to Customers Stakeholder opinions are critical for bringing to our attention issues that are important for coexisting with society and growing sustainably. We now receive large numbers of customer questions regarding environmentally and socially conscious raw material procurement and product development. The Nippon Paper Group is committed to providing products that respond to customer concerns and desires. Paper gallery at headquarters of Nippon Paper Industries Special “b7 series” exhibit Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2017) Materiality Enhancement of Product Safety •Convened two meetings of the Group Product Safety Committee, which made decisions on Groupwide measures, shared information among Group Strengthening of the product safety management companies, and discussed safety matters. system • Established a management system for brands used for food products, and conducted audits to confirm operating conditions at mills making products under these brands. Initiatives to reduce product safety risk Establishment of a product safety management Specified risk management items for new products that system for new products cannot be handled under the existing management systems. Conducted product recall training at each business Maintain a higher level of FSSC22000-based location and revised the manual on crisis management management for Paper-Pak products procedures for food safety to comply with the revised standard. Passed FSSC22000 renewal inspection with positive results and no citations for any business location. Materiality Enhancement of product value Forest certification coverage Obtain the right to display forest certification Displayed forest certification logos on approximately 200 (the provision of products logos on substantially all Nippon Paper Industries million Paper-Pak products. with forest certifications) Co., Ltd. Paper-Pak products by 2020. (Result for the previous fiscal year: Approx. 20 million) Policy and Management Stabilization of Operations 46 Enhancement of product value Basic Stance 44 Water Supply Risk related to Development of Environmentally Our Water Usage 46 Friendly Products 48 Quality Management Initiatives 44 Providing Products that Respond to Identifying Customer Needs 45 Customer Demands 50 System for Advancing Enhancement of Product Safety New-product Development 45 Product Safety Management System 47 The Stable Supply of Products 46 Approach toward Product Safety 47 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 43 Responsibility to Customers Policy and Management In addition to the development of various products that are indispensable to everyday life, we continue to pursue quality which meets the expectations of customers Basic Stance • Quality assurance systems in the paper and paperboard divisions Providing reliable products and services Nippon Paper Industries has adopted a Service Engineer The Nippon Paper Group engages in a broad spectrum of (SE) system to shorten the distance between customers businesses including paper, films, healthcare products, and production facilities. Under this system, SEs listen chemical products, lumber, and construction materials, to directly to customers’ voices. They do this, for instance, by serve a wide range of both corporate customers and visiting customers and conducting quality patrols in which consumers as it continues to develop and grow in tune they observe printing and processing lines where paper is with society. used. To create even closer customer relationships, we Providing stable supplies of products that are revamped our quality assurance systems in 2013, assigning indispensable to everyday life, and applying the Group’s technical experts to sales divisions. In addition, to enable strengths to develop products that please customers, are swift responses to diverse customer needs, regular qualityhow we fulfill our basic responsibility to play a useful role for information meetings and other means are used to promote society. Assuring quality and safety, we will continue to live collaboration between sales and technical divisions. up to the trust society places in our products and services. • Responding to instances of defective products For defective products, action is taken by individual Group Quality Management Initiatives companies. Properly managing quality for In the Paper and Paperboard Division of Nippon Paper individual products Industries Co., Ltd., for example, sales technicians act as the central contact point, working with the relevant mill and Each Group company actively promotes efforts aimed at head office departments to develop solutions by using tools acquiring ISO 9001 certification and engages in quality such as a database of safety-related problems. management suited to the characteristics of its products. At Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., which sells consumer products, contact information for the Customer Service ISO 9001 certification status https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/2018.3_ Office is provided on all products and the Customer Service ISO9001_e.pdf Office itself is placed directly under the president to ensure that all issues raised by customers are reported. Furthermore, the company’s website is configured to • Quality for liquids audits at companies making paper containers accept customer queries and comments. The company consistently acts in good faith to ensure that customers are Customers are constantly increasing their demands for fully satisfied. quality and safety in packaging materials. To rapidly respond to these demands and anticipate future demands, Product defect response system the Paper-Pak Quality Assurance Department of Nippon (Paper and Paperboard Division) Paper Industries Co. Ltd.’s Paper-Pak Sales Division Customer regularly conducts quality audits of Nippon Paper Liquid Relevant Departments Package Product Co., Ltd.'s three mills. In addition, the Problem Report Production three mills annually conduct quality meetings and annual Sales Departments (Including technical experts) Collaboration quality audits to enhance quality by ensuring a uniform Product Safety Office understanding of quality management and critical food Investigation Investigation Use of a database safety concerns regarding chemical substances, request report and other tools Research Laboratory microorganisms, and foreign matter. Mill Quality audit Paper-Pak quality inspection The Customer Service Office (Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.) 44 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 System for Advancing New-product Development • Vratios erification and audit of wastepaper pulp blending and use of thinned wood Building a system for Nippon Paper Industries has established a management accelerating development system for providing customers with guarantees that products are made with a certain percentage of wastepaper The Nippon Paper Group has established its New Product pulp content and with wood from forest thinning. Development Committee to accelerate business structure Steps are taken to manage and review production transformation (see pages 8-9). New product development procedures at each of the Group’s mills, based in part on teams operating under the committee identify research the standards and criteria of the ISO 14001 environmental themes and present them in committee meetings held management system. The proper operation of content every three months. For themes approved by the management systems is confirmed in internal and external committee, formal projects are established and provided audits, and customers verify that products are being with human, financial, and other resources. manufactured to content specifications. The committee is chaired by the General Manager of the Corporate Planning Division and its membership is composed of the president of Nippon Paper Industries and Identifying Customer Needs the other members of the Management Execution Proactive communication Committee (see page 14). Depending on the meeting Responsibility to Customers agenda, presidents of subsidiaries or affiliates, and heads The Nippon Paper Group engages in proactive of relevant divisions, may participate in committee meetings communication to identify customer needs across a wide in order to speed progress toward commercialization. range of areas. We receive numerous inquiries from customers about the tree species, countries of origin, and System for Advancing New-Product Development legality of our raw materials. In response, we explain New Product Development Committee measures we have put in place to address these matters Chairperson: General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Corporate and provide information on third-party evaluations of our Planning Division Policy and Management Committee members: Members of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Management activities (see page 27). Execution Committee Other meeting participants (as needed): Presidents of subsidiaries or affiliates, heads We also actively welcome customers for inspections and of relevant divisions, etc. tours of mills and plants to give them a first-hand view of production facilities and, thereby, gain their understanding of our production activities. New Product Development Team • NSales ippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Paper-Pak Division • Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. established its Healthcare Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Sales Division Research Institute in April 2017 to strengthen its abilities to conducts technical lectures for customers (dairy and develop products for the rapidly growing nursing care and beverage companies) providing them with information on sanitary products markets. how to properly use filling machines. At the same time, the The company is collaborating with Nippon Paper division continuously strives to improve its products based Industries Co., Ltd. to take full advantage of the Group’s on valuable feedback from customers. research assets. It aims to expand its healthcare business by enhancing its competitiveness through accurate • NCommunication ippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Packaging Center identification of society’s needs and acceleration of product development. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. aims to help enrich daily life through packaging made with woody biomass. The company works together with processing companies and product manufacturers to provide the world with processing technologies and the SHIELDPLUS® series of paper-based packaging materials with outstanding barrier properties. • Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Healthcare Research Institute Nippon Paper Crecia conducts surveys to gather data on customer satisfaction and needs, and then uses what it learns to create measures of success in serving customers. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 45 Responsibility to Customers Policy and Management The Stable Supply of Products Stabilization of Operations Stable supply systems optimized Installing a newly developed system of by product wireless sensors for 24/7 detection of equipment abnormalities To secure on-demand-supply, we devote considerable effort to maintaining stable production by securing reliable Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and NIPPON PAPER procurement of raw materials, and systematically UNITEC CO., LTD. have developed the e-musen junkai” maintaining and upgrading our production facilities. Sales (e-wireless patrol) system, which uses wireless sensors to departments and production units coordinate their activities constantly monitor equipment for signs of abnormalities. to provide customers with reliable supplies of products by The pulp and paper is a prime example of a process developing flexible production plans that avoid waste, and industry, where the stable operation of equipment has a managing inventories appropriately. direct impact on the ability to stably supply products and maintain high quality. Maintaining equipment, therefore, is • Addressing natural disaster risks (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. headquarters and individual mills) critical, and proper maintenance depends on monitoring for signs of abnormalities by checking vibration and The Nippon Paper Group, having learned much from past temperature. natural disasters, has developed practical guidelines for In the past, signs of abnormalities were discovered addressing natural disaster risks. Working from these mainly by people who patrolled production facilities. This guidelines, each mill and plant has examined its natural approach depended greatly on unquantifiable skills and disaster response measures and revised its disaster expertise in the form of the experience and intuition of those response manual. checking production facilities. With the e-musen junkai” For its part, Nippon Paper Industries, in preparation for a (e-wireless patrol) system, IoT technology is used to major disaster that could disable its headquarters, has accumulate temperature and vibration acceleration data on established a backup facility that could immediately take equipment in operation and monitor trends in this over headquarters functions. The company also conducts quantitative data. Properly responding when an abnormal training in the transfer of functions from its headquarters to trend is detected helps to prevent equipment trouble and the backup facility. stabilize operations (see page 35). Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is gradually installing • Emergency Manuals (Newsprint) the e-musen junkai” system in all of its domestic mills and Newspapers are a highly public information medium, so the actively selling it to companies outside the Group. need for the stable supply of newsprint is especially strong. e-musen junkai” (e-wireless patrol) system webpage (Sales The paper industry, therefore, has prepared regional company: Sakurai Co., Ltd.) http://www.sakurai.co.jp/landing/e-musen/index.html emergency manuals for use when supply operations cannot (Japanese only) be conducted in the usual manner. In the event of a disruption Water Supply Risk related to Our Water Usage to communication and transportation systems as a No Threats to Water Supplies result of a major disaster, paper companies follow Presently, we have received no information from either these manuals to ensure the government authorities or local communities that water Shipping products from a warehouse smooth supply of newsprint. usage by Nippon Paper Group company mills is having negative environmental impacts. Our operations are posing • Business continuity management system (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Paper-Pak Sales Division) little risk to water supplies in Japan. In addition, simple risk assessments performed by third Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Sales Division has parties have not indicated that water supplies are seriously developed its own business continuity guidelines and threatened by our operations. established its own management system, so that it can maintain production even in times of emergency. The division is moving ahead with the selection of priority items for emergencies and procurement of key raw materials from multiple manufacturers. It has also diversified its production across multiple production sites to lower its disaster risk exposure. 46 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Enhancement of Product Safety Responding to customer faith by establishing the Product Safety Management System to enhance safety Product Safety Management System Approach toward Product Safety Establishing a Group system System for legal and regulatory management and compliance The Nippon Paper Group Product Safety Committee oversees all matters related to product safety. It discusses The Nippon Paper Group, acting in compliance with laws, and makes decisions on directions and policies, and other including Japanese laws such as the Act on the Evaluation important product safety matters, for the entire Group. of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Reporting directly to the committee, the Product Safety Manufacture, PRTR Law, and Food Sanitation Act, works Subcommittee monitors and manages activities at each to ensure product safety by employing management Group company. Drawing on information and the exchange approaches adapted to the characteristics of particular of opinions among Group companies, the subcommittee operations and products. also deliberates on optimal responses to matters of concern and submits its findings to the Product Safety Product safety management approach Committee. Each Group company establishes its own Overall Level product safety committee and engages in appropriate • ISO 14001 Environmental Management product safety activities. Management of chemical substances included in raw materials Brands for Food Products (Paper and Paperboard businesses) Responsibility to Customers Product safety management system • Product safety management guidelines for paper and paperboard with direct exposure to food products Group Specification of brands and production facilities subject to safety management measures; implementation of enhanced facilityand Product Safety Committee management-system-based measures to prevent contamination by insect and Chairperson: General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s other foreign matter; promotion of hygiene management; chemical substance management based on Japan Paper Association voluntary standards; and Technical & Engineering Division annual confirmation of the functional status of the above measures. Constituent members: General managers of related departments within Nippon Food, beverages, and their containers (Paper-Pak Division) Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and general managers • HACCP1 hygiene management (Food containers) responsible for product safety at each subsidiary or affiliate Adoption and enhancement of facilities that emphasize production environment hygiene, the use of defect-detection devices to monitor products, and wearing of clothing to prevent contamination by hair Policy and Management / Product Safety Subcommittee • FSSC 220002 food safety standard • Food defense measures Individual Group companies Prevention of intentional threats to food products by equipping paper-pak (9 companies*) manufacturing plants with entry and exit controls, cameras for quality control, tight controls on access to chemicals, and other such security measures. Product Safety Committees Enhancement of Product Safety 1 HACCP * Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper An acronym for “Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point” Papylia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd., 2 FSSC 22000 Nippon Seitai Corporation, NP Trading Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Development FSSC 22000 is a food safety management system certification scheme Co., Ltd., Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. (As of March 31, 2018) integrating the ISO 22000 international food safety management system standard, which calls for implementation of HACCP, the ISO/TS 22002 prerequisite program on food safety, and other requirements. Philosophy and Basic Policy on Acquisition of FSSC 22000 certifications Product Safety (as of March 31, 2018 ) (established on October 1, 2004, revised on August 1, 2014) Company Mill, Operating Division, Production Company Name Philosophy Nippon Paper Gotsu Mill3, Nippon Paper Liquid Package Product Industries We pledge to work to improve safety at every stage Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. (Egawa Mill, Miki Mill, Ishioka Mill) of the life cycle of our products, from design to manufacture, supply, and disposal, and to provide Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. products and services that the public can trust. 3 CMC (carboxymethyl cellulose), cellulose powder, and stevia and licorice sweeteners (all for use in food) Basic Policy 1. To provide safe products and services in response to the continued trust of our customers. 2. To respect related laws and standards in order to • Halal certification obtained guarantee the safety of our products and services. In March 2017, Halal certification 4 was obtained for the We pursue safety not only as expected under nucleic acid (RNA-M) and dissolving pulp produced at the Japanese laws but also from a global perspective. Gotsu Mill. The same certification was obtained for CMC 3. To provide customers with precise information on the (carboxymethyl cellulose) the following October. As a result, safety, features, and correct usage of our products. the Gotsu Mill can now export products Muslims can safely 4. To set up a product and service safety management structure and ensure that all group employees have a consume to Islamic countries. 4 Halal certification thorough awareness of the importance of product safety. Halal certification is presented for products that, upon inspection of raw materials, production processes, ingredient and product storage conditions, and other matters, have been determined to be in keeping with Islamic law. Products exported to Islamic countries should be Halal certified. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 47 Responsibility to Customers Enhancement of Product Value We provide products that meet customer demands including forest certified products. Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Points of environmental concern from a product lifecycle Raw materials Considering every stage of the procurement Procuring raw materials from sustainable forests product lifecycle PP.23-30, 40-42 Recovering and reapplying products Nippon Paper Group products use wood raw materials that can be recycled and reused – renewable biomass resources – and are recyclable. Production Building on the fact that our products have a low Post-use PP.32-38, 40 environmental impact by their very nature, each Group Reducing the emission company strives to develop products that are cognizant of P.39 of substances that cause global warming the environment at every stage beginning with raw material and impose a burden on the environment procurement and proceeding through production, consumption, post-consumption, and disposal. Preventing the Disposal emission of Marketing products that help environmental Use conserve resources and energy Environmentally Friendly Raw Materials Procurement P.39 pollutants; reducing the amount of waste P.49 Case Environmentally Friendly Raw Materials Procurement Providing certified paper by starting with properly managed forests (Nippon Paper Group) Case The forest certification system is composed of two Obtaining certifications for components—the Forest Management (FM) component, Paper-Pak products which certifies that forests are sustainably managed from (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., environmental, social, and economic perspectives, and Paper-Pak Sales Division) the Chain-of-Custody (CoC) component, which certifies that products from certified forests have been properly Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.'s Paper-Pak Sales processed and distributed. The Nippon Paper Group Division obtained CoC certifications from the FSC® (FSC® has obtained CoC certifications at its principal mills, and C0128733) and PEFC international forest certification provides certified paper products. organizations in February 2016. It took this step to promote the environmental advantages of PaperStatus of CoC certification acquisition at principal Pak products over plastic bottles and metal cans, and production sites enhance appreciation of both Paper-Pak products and https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/2018.3_ the company’s brand. The division is working to supply CoC_e.pdf Paper-Pak products with forest certifications to basically all customers* by fiscal 2020, when the Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in Tokyo. * Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. was able to place forest certification logos on approximately 200 million Paper-Pak products in fiscal 2017, up from approximately 20 million in fiscal 2016. Environmental consciousness in raw material procurement and waste handling Case SPOPS® Paper Containers Replacing the Refill Pouch (Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd.) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has developed SPOPS®, Refilling with SPOPS® a replaceable paper container designed to take the place of plastic pouches for refills of shampoo and other products. Commercialization efforts for this new product are now moving forward. With SPOPS®, there is no need for pouring from a pouch into a dispenser; product refills are accomplished simply by replacing a cartridge. PAPERPAK manufacturing technology is what makes the SPOPS® approach to product refills possible. SPOPS® makes daily life more convenient by simplifying refills. And because it uses paper – a recyclable material – and contributes to greater efficiency in distribution, SPOPS® also has a lower “SPO!” is the sound made when an empty SPOPS® cartridge is separated from the dispenser. “PS!” is the sound made when a new cartridge is installed environmental impact than do plastic pouches. in the dispenser. Together, they form the product name “SPOPS®.” 48 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental consciousness throughout the Post-use environmentally friendly disposal product lifecycle Case Case MinerPa®, a new functional material SHIELDPLUS PREMIER® oxygenand made from trees moisture-barrier materials (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has developed Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has developed a unique technology for densely bonding inorganic SHIELDPLUS®, an environmentally friendly packaging particles to the surface of wood pulp (cellulose material made from paper, which is recyclable and fiber). This technology is based on the company’s ultimately renewable. Sales of this product began in accumulation of pulp, inorganic, and other technologies November 2017. for making paper and has given rise to MinerPa®. PreThe company is also developing SHIELDPLUS marketing work for this new product began in February PREMIER®, a product with even greater moisture-barrier 2017, and technologies are being developed based on properties, and plans to begin sales in the near future. customer needs. Performing as well as existing products, MinerPa® is a functional material based on SHIELDPLUS® offers outstanding barrier properties and wood pulp, a recyclable natural fiber, and combines is seen as a substitute for aluminum and barrier-film the formability of wood pulp with the deodorizing/ options. As a replacement for aluminum, SHIELDPLUS® antibacterial, flame-retardancy, X-ray shielding, antiviral, Responsibility to Customers enables the use of metal detection devices for and other properties of inorganic materials. MinerPa® can inspection procedures. As a replacement for barrier film, be recycled for reuse as paper or as fuel for generating SHIELDPLUS® reduces the use of plastic, which is made heat. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has adopted a from petroleum, a depletable resource. It, therefore, new-material development concept, which is to flexibly results in lower CO2 emissions, from manufacturing change materials into granular, solid, and other forms to through disposal, than do conventional packaging offer functional, design, and other types of value to serve materials made only from plastic. customer needs. MinerPa® is a product that is based on The shift to paper packaging is accelerating globally this concept and is being offered as a new earthand in light of the recent attention on plastic pollution of people-friendly material that delivers value beyond that marine environments. The environmental benefits the Enhancement of product value of paper (sheets). SHIELDPLUS® series offers in addition to its outstanding In fiscal 2018, the company is moving forward with barrier properties, make it appropriate for use under a plans to establish a demonstration plant at the Fuji Mill wide range of circumstances and for various types of (Fuji City, Shizuoka Prefecture) with operational startup packaging applications. targeted for October. This facility will have an annual production capacity of at least 450 tons. The company will establish a system for the full-scale distribution of samples with an eye toward commercialization. With the establishment of the demonstration plant, the company will search for promising business areas and focus on rapidly developing applications for commercialization. Examples of packages that use SHIELDPLUS® New functional materials on display at Convertech Japan 2018 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 49 Responsibility to Customers Enhancement of product value Providing Products that Respond to Customer Demands Case Responding to changing quality demands A product line for a wide range of needs (Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.) Nippon Paper Crecia goes to great lengths to develop Case products that respond to customer needs. It pays meticulous attention to feedback received through its Super Jet Fiber insulation material Customer Service Office and sales channels, and works (Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) to develop products that meet newly emerging needs and performance demands. Nippon Paper Lumber manufactures Super Jet Fiber, a residential heat insulation material that, because it is made primarily of recycled newspapers, is close to a natural material. As a blown-in thermal insulation material, Super Jet Fiber offers the benefits of low environmental impact and high insulating efficiency, which have made it increasingly SCOTTIE® Cashmere KLEENEX® Compact POISE® Men's popular for use in ZEH (net zero energy houses). Botanical 8-Roll (single/double) Sheet 5cc Case Paper-Pak Products with Closures (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Paper-Pak Sales Division) Super Jet Fiber (insulator) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began selling PurePak® Curve, a new Paper-Pak product that can be equipped with a closure, in 2017 under a licensing Case agreement with ELOPAK AS of Norway. The company also offers Pure-Pak® Sense products for high-viscosity Water-based functional coating resin content; Pure-Pak® Diamond products, which can be (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., used for the same beverage-related purposes served Chemical Sales Division) by plastic bottles; and NP-PAK Rock products featuring two corners that can be used as message panels. The The Chemical Business of Nippon Paper Industries company serves customer needs with a broad line of Co., Ltd. manufactures and sells SUPERCHLON®, a high-value-added paper packaging products. functional coating resin. This product adds adhesion The closures used by Nippon Paper Industries Co., properties to coatings and inks, making it possible to Ltd. are based on universal design concepts. Because coat or print on automobile bumpers, soft packaging they do not use an inner lead, they are easy to open and films for food, and other items made of polypropylene, a use less plastic, which makes them more environmentally material with poor adhesion properties. friendly and lighter1 than similar products made in Japan. In addition to the original organic-solvent-based 1 Based on research by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. product, the company also makes a low-environmentalimpact water-based version of this product to meet market needs inside and outside Japan. It is also working diligently to develop products that respond to detailed customer needs. From right: Pure-Pak®2 Diamond, Pure-Pak® Curve, Pure-Pak® Sense, and NP-PAK Rock liquid containers with closures. 2 Pure-Pak® is a trademark of Elopak AS. SUPERCHLON® Example of a SUPERCHLON® (water-based version) application 50 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Large numbers of people work in the Nippon Paper Group's expansive company-owned forests and large-scale production sites. Securing their safety and health is the Nippon Paper Group's top priority. The Nippon Paper Group aims to be an organization where a diversity of people can exercise their individual strengths, inspire each other, and help each other achieve new depths of knowledge. Paper Australia Pty Ltd. Announcing the JOEY future concept study Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2017) Materiality Occupational Safety and Health Prevention of injuries to any person at a mill site Number of serious occupational accidents •Elimination of serious occupational accidents No serious occupational accidents Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work •Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work = 0.30 or less Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work = 0.63 Materiality Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization Removed upper limit on the number of times half-day paid leave can be taken, and Promotion of reexamination of work styles Adoption of measures for reexamining work implemented a system for obtaining prior styles permission to work overtime or on holidays, etc. to prevent employees from working too many hours Policy and Management Occupational Safety and Health Maintenance of a Basic Stance 52 Basic Stance 53 Vigorous Organization Basic Stance 56 Philosophy and Basic Policy 52 System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health 53 Recruitment and Employment 56 Initiatives in Respect of Human Rights 52 Efforts regarding Hygiene and Health 54 Promoting Work-Life Balance 57 Efforts regarding Safety and Disaster Women in the Workplace 58 Prevention 54 Initiatives Aimed at Developing Status of Occupational Accidents 55 Human Resources 59 Fair Evaluation and Compensation 60 Industrial Relations 60 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 51 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Policy and Management Building a healthy and safe workplace environment in which employees, who serve as the driving force behind the Group’s corporate activities, can take full advantage of their individual capabilities while conforming to the highest ethical standards Basic Stance responsibilities. The Group established its Philosophy and Focusing on the optimal application of Basic Policy on Human Rights, Employment and Labor diverse human resources while ensuring based on this understanding. safety and disaster prevention Initiatives in Respect of Human Rights The Nippon Paper Group respects human rights and aims to develop a working environment that makes the most of a Confirming, verifying, and educating diverse range of human resources. Work-style reform, for with the help of a third-party perspective example, has gotten much attention in recent years, and we are moving proactively to help ensure that employees • Exchanging opinions with Amnesty International Japan can maintain work-life balances that suit them. In 2014, divisions in charge of procuring wood chips and We also make every effort to maintain and enhance safe managing labor relations at Nippon Paper Industries each working environments and to take all appropriate measures met with Amnesty International Japan to share opinions. for safety and disaster preparedness. The meetings helped us to deepen our understanding of global trends in human rights issues. They also gave us an opportunity to explain and discuss conditions at the Philosophy and Basic Policy company and prioritize our actions going forward. Aiming to be a company where Later, in fiscal 2015, we embarked on an examination of employees can look to a better future human rights conditions at subcontractors in Japan and at overseas chip suppliers. Based on examination results, we Gaining the trust of society and fulfilling our responsibilities are making changes by employing PDCA cycles as we requires that Nippon Paper Group employees act with high continue our dialogue with Amnesty International Japan. morals and strong motivation. Promoting employee awareness and behavior consistent with that belief, helping • Paying attention to human rights issues at affiliated companies in Japan individual employees improve their capabilities, and rewarding performance are among our most important Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. conducts surveys on human rights issues at affiliated companies in Japan. In fiscal 2015, we had these affiliates perform self-checks and, Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, beginning in fiscal 2016, each of these companies began to Employment and Labor move forward with examinations of survey results and ways (established on October 1, 2004) to improve. Philosophy Respecting fundamental human rights at all times and •Concern for human rights across the supply chain making the most of the individuality and capabilities Concern for human rights and labor across the entire of a diverse range of human resources, we aim to supply chain is clearly defined in the Nippon Paper Group’s create a company overflowing with dreams and hope. Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Basic Policy Procurement. The Group audits suppliers through surveys 1. Respect for human rights and interviews them regarding these concerns (see pages We pledge to respect fundamental human rights and 24 and 27). In addition, in fiscal 2017, employees not to engage in any behavior that disregards such responsible for procurement performed on-site inspections rights, including discrimination based on matters such as nationality, race, place of birth, sex, religion, of suppliers in Vietnam and the U.S. These were medical conditions or disabilities, sexual harassment supplemented with interviews covering matters such as and the abuse of power. We also pledge to manage health, hygiene, safety, disaster preparedness, and local personal information appropriately in order to prevent environmental concerns. infringements on privacy. In managing forests, the 2. Prohibition of forced and child labor We pledge not to force any employees to carry out Group devotes significant unreasonable work. We also pledge not to employ attention to protecting the children aged under the minimum employment age culture and traditions of stipulated in local laws and regulations. residents in each region of its 3. Promotion of personnel training and skill development overseas afforestation We pledge to promote personnel training and skill development programs to help improve Breakroom at a U.S. facility operations (see page 30). individual employees’ abilities and skills through the establishment and maintenance of structures to make the most of the individuality and capabilities of • Education and training In pursuit of personnel management cognizant of human a diverse range of human resources. rights, the Nippon Paper Group has employees responsible for personnel matters participate in training courses hosted by government agencies. 52 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Occupational Safety and Health By working daily to uncover inherent risks, maintaining a workplace environment in which employees can go about their duties without undue anxiety Basic Stance System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health Securing safety and health, and To build a safe workplace environment preventing disasters The Nippon Paper Group has established the Safety and Providing a safe work environment is a basic responsibility Disaster Prevention Committee, which coordinates Groupof any business. In fulfilling this responsibility, the Nippon wide occupational safety and health, disaster prevention Paper Group advances initiatives focused on safety and and security measures. health, and disaster preparedness. At Nippon Paper Industries, labor and management Maintaining an unwavering daily commitment to occupational safety and health meetings are held once uncovering and minimizing risks is key to that effort. each year. The persons responsible for occupational safety Consistently engaging in sound management while and health from the head office, mills, and labor union come responding to the trust of employees is also important for together to discuss a variety of issues, including the annual building a pleasant and comfortable workplace that helps occupational safety and health management plan. Safety to maintain and improve employees' health. We have and health committees are also established at each mill and created labor safety and health systems and continuously office. These committees deliberate on and determine strive to prevent accidents and provide safe, pleasant important management matters and activity policies. working environments, based on the Philosophy and Basic Employees are notified of the details of decisions through Policy on Safety and Health Measures established in 2004. department meetings and internal mill newsletters and then execute the determined activities. Occupational Philosophy and Basic Policy on Safety and safety and health meetings Health Measures and committee activities are (established on October 1, 2004) conducted in accordance with an agreement with the Philosophy labor union, and labor and In addition to acknowledging that it is the company’s Human Rights, Employment 2017 labor and management management cooperate to duty to guarantee safety and health, and to strive to occupational safety and health meeting develop pleasant, improved working conditions, we promote safety and health. pledge to work ceaselessly to prevent any and all and Labor Responsibility accidents, minor or major. System to promote occupational safety and health Basic Policy on Safety and Health The Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee (controlling the whole Group) 1. To respect the Industrial Safety and Health Law. 2. To establish self-imposed standards and step up daily management. The Secretariat of the Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee 3. To set up a management structure and clearly define Policy and Management / roles, responsibilities, and authority. Mills of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Group companies 4. To strive to improve safety and health training. 5. To develop and maintain a safe, pleasant working environment. Examples of organizations for safety Mill Manager Safety Supervisor Basic Policy on Safety and Risk Prevention Occupational Safety and Health Union Health Supervisor 1. To respect laws and regulations pertaining to safety General Safety and Industrial physician Health Supervisor and risk prevention. Health Controller in Health Engineering 2. To establish self-imposed standards and step up Safety and Health Committee Working Environment daily management. Measurement Expert 3. To set up a management structure and clearly define roles, responsibilities, and authority. 4. To strive to improve safety and risk prevention Manager by position Safety and Environmental Safety and Health and status Control Dept. Promotion Council education and training. 5. To work in cooperation with related government and Safety and Health local communities and share information. Employees Liaison Council Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 53 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Occupational Safety and Health • Occupational safety and health management system • Tackling mental health In 2009, the Nippon Paper Group implemented its own Nippon Paper Industries has organized Internet-based system for continuously pursuing occupational safety and mental health care and counseling services for all health management activities at the organization level. employees. Under this system, employees are asked to Under this system, a three-tiered approach is used for complete an annual survey designed to detect needs for risk assessments by employees and at the management mental health care services. level, and efforts are being made to share information on risks and management measures, such as mutual risk • Initiatives diseases for work entailing high risks of injuries or assessments within a business location. Mill Safety Audits are conducted, events are held to share safety technology, The Nippon Paper Group strives to prevent injuries and and risk assessment methods and other types of expertise diseases by reducing risks in work where the potential of an are shared to raise safety levels across the Group. explosion or fire, or injury or disease, is a concern. We * Nippon Paper Occupational Safety and Health Management System manage our facilities in accordance with the Industrial Safety and Health Law and other laws and regulations, and • Mill safety audit system monitor our workplace environments. In locations where chemical substances are handled, we investigate the The Nippon Paper Group conducts mill safety audits to raise the level of safety management. In addition, mutual dangers and toxicity of these substances and use what we safety audits among the Group companies were introduced learn to take appropriate risk measures and manage in 2010. Audits are being improved from the bottom up by residual risks. promoting closer communications within the Group. Efforts regarding Safety and Disaster Prevention Working steadily from various angles • Safety education In its efforts to ensure high safety awareness, the Nippon Paper Group places considerable weight on safety Safety audit education for all employees, including those in management. Efforts regarding Hygiene and Health Nippon Paper Industries puts in place an annual Taking into consideration the importance Occupational Safety and Health Management System plan of mental and physical health at each of its mills and offices, which then implements various education programs covering every stage of an The Nippon Paper Group strives to keep its employees employee’s career from initial hiring through to supervisor healthy and to detect health problems in their early stages. training. Constantly renewing safety awareness, we are For example, at Group companies that are members of the endeavoring to achieve accident-free workplaces. Nippon Paper Industries Health Insurance Union, examinations focusing on lifestyle diseases are performed • In-plant safety measures together with regular physical examinations. In addition, Based on its mission of eliminating all personal injuries industrial physicians regularly visit workplaces and the within its mills, Nippon Paper Industries has implemented Group uses the results of these visits in efforts to improve safety patrols and education initiatives in collaboration with working environments. The Group also provides medical the labor union and subcontractors. In safety patrols, we examinations for the spouses of employees. provide instructions and guidance for immediately 54 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Status of Occupational Accidents correcting unsafe conditions. As a principal employer, we also provide information, reference materials, venues, and Eliminating occupational accidents other resources, and have confirmed that subcontractors are conducting safety education properly. Furthermore, we In fiscal 2017, the Nippon Paper Group (including enhance workplace safety by providing guidance on, and subcontractors)* experienced no serious occupational encouraging voluntary efforts, including risk prediction and accidents. Nevertheless, for employees, and subcontractor risk assessment before engaging in work. and construction company employees working in our facilities, the frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work came to 0.63, an increase from the prior fiscal year. The occupational accident severity rate was 0.03. To help ensure the safety of all workers, we are enhancing danger prediction activities and safety patrols. In the same vein, we are taking steps to improve communication with subcontractors and construction Safety patrol companies, and to provide them with proper guidance. * The manufacturing facilities of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper • Crecia Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd.; and Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. Natural disaster and fire countermeasures In preparation for natural disasters, each location of the Nippon Paper Group has created disaster preparedness Frequency rate for lost-worktime injuries manuals reflecting local hazard map information and the Indicates how often occupational accidents occur, in terms of the number of accidents causing injuries or deaths per million work hours. characteristics of their particular operations and geographic Nippon Paper Group Pulp, paper and processed paper product manufacturing industry location. They also cooperate with local fire departments Manufacturing industry Nippon Paper Group (including affiliates) and other public safety authorities to conduct regular 2.0 1.79 disaster preparedness training. 1.42 1.46 At Nippon Paper Industries, individual business locations 1.5 1.30 1.31 Human Rights, Employment undergo regular disaster prevention surveys by a company 1.06 1.02 1.0 0.94 1.06 1.15 specializing in risk assessment. 0.56 0.68 0.65 0.5 0.43 0.39 0.63 and Labor Responsibility 0.40 0.40 0.10 0.30 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Year) Occupational accident severity rate Occupational Safety and Health Indicates the seriousness of occupational accidents, in terms of the number of workdays lost per 1,000 work hours. Nippon Paper Group Pulp, paper and processed paper product manufacturing industry Manufacturing industry Nippon Paper Group (including affiliates) Disaster preparedness training 0.9 0.76 • Traffic safety initiatives 0.6 The Nippon Paper Group actively participates in traffic safety education and in various traffic safety campaigns of 0.38 0.35 0.07 0.24 local police authorities. Every effort is made to ensure that 0.3 0.19 0.04 0.30 0.06 0.03 0.09 0.02 0.01 0.08 all employees remain conscious of the need to drive safely. 0.06 0.02 0.03 0 0.10 0.02 0.02 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Year) Traffic safety course Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 55 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization With a deep respect for fundamental human rights and the unique characteristics of each individual, the Nippon Paper Group consistently recruits new graduates and actively employs women and people with disabilities. Basic Stance • Promoting the employment of elderly persons Developing a dynamic organization The Nippon Paper Group has implemented its where diverse employees can Reemployment after Retirement System to respond to the demonstrate their capabilities needs of a super-aged society* and to facilitate the passing Employees with different personalities stimulating one on of skills. another and helping each other deepen their knowledge In fiscal 2002, Nippon Paper Industries introduced a serve to invigorate the workplace. Amid forecasts of a drop reemployment system to allow employees to work up to the in Japan's working-age population, diversification of age of 65. Furthermore, in response to the amended Law workforces is becoming increasingly vital to ensuring Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons, ongoing growth. Our aim is to be a vigorous organization which took effect in April 2013, we have prepared rules that emphasizing the spirit of Challenge, Fairness, and will allow employees of retirement age to continue working Teamwork the values included in the Group Mission the based on their desire and skills, at least until they begin to Nippon Paper Group definitively stated in 2015. receive pensions. * According to the WHO, a “super-aged society” is one in which over 21% of the population is 65 or older. It is estimated that about 28% of Japan's population was 65 or older in 2017. Recruitment and Employment Advancing discrimination-free hiring Performance in reemploying workers who reach the mandatory retirement age 1,2 (Regular employees of Nippon Paper Industries and consolidated The Nippon Paper Group employs approximately 13,000 companies in Japan) (Persons) people in and outside of Japan. In its efforts to fulfill its Fiscal years 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 responsibilities to communities, the Group strives to ensure Nippon Paper Ind. Employees seeking 57 51 112 172 185 46 stable employment while continuously recruiting new reemployment employees. People reemployed 67 53 112 172 185 46 Furthermore, based on its Philosophy and Basic Policy Consolidated companies in Japan — — 309 327 331 227 on Human Rights, Employment and Labor (see page 52), People reemployed the Group promotes discrimination-free recruitment and 1 Beginning with fiscal 2014, figures cover consolidated companies in Japan and management employees. Until fiscal 2013, figures covered only nonemployment. The Group employs a selection process that management employees at Nippon Paper Industries. bases decisions on test and interview results. Factors 2 Depending on staffing conditions and other factors, the company may request employees to continue working beyond the retirement age, and some employees including nationality, place of birth, gender and level of have agreed to do this. This is why the number of people reemployed sometimes school completed have no place in selection decisions. exceeds the number of retirees requesting to be reemployed. • Recent and future hiring of people with disabilities Employment data As of April 1, 2017, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Units FY2017 employment rate for people with disabilities was 1.92%. No. of employees on a consolidated basis1,2 Persons 12,881 Men Persons 11,451 That result was below our objective of 2.0%, so, in fiscal Women Persons 1,430 2017, we stepped up our participation in hiring events Overseas Persons 2,582 sponsored by local governments and organizations. As a Men Persons 2,257 result, our employment rate for people with disabilities rose Women Persons 325 Percent of upper management from the to 2.17% as of April 1, 2018. local community % 82.7 Beginning in fiscal 2018, the statutory employment rate Part-time workers1,2 Persons 440 for people with disabilities has been raised to 2.2% and it Men Persons 252 Women Persons 188 will continue to be raised going forward. As in the past, New graduates hired3 Persons 245 efforts to steadily increase our employment rate for people Men Persons 220 with disabilities will be based on action plans developed Women Persons 25 and executed at individual business sites. Mid-career hires3 Persons 198 Men Persons 169 Women Persons 29 The rate of employment of people with disabilities Average age of employees 1,3 Age 43.4 (as of April 1 of each year) Men Age 43.4 (%) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Women Age 43.5 3.0 Average years of employment1,3 Years 19.4 1.91 1.99 1.98 1.94 1.92 2.17 Men Years 19.6 1.78 Women Years 18.0 1.5 Turnover rate1,3 (Includes employees leaving % 4.7 at the mandatory retirement age) 0 Dispatched workers1,3 Persons 105 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Men Persons 39 Women Persons 66 1 Fiscal year end 2 Data scope: Consolidated companies 3 Data scope: Consolidated companies in Japan 56 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Employees by Age Group (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., March 31, 2018) • Reducing Overall Working Hours Less than Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has set the goal of Unit 30 to 50 Over 50 Total 30 reducing average annual working hours for its workforce to No. of employees Persons 803 2,940 1,191 4,934 less than 1,850 hours per person. Achieving this goal Men Persons 750 2,706 1,080 4,536 requires the ability to more accurately measure and manage Women Persons 53 234 111 398 working hours. We, therefore, augmented our work timetable management system, which covers all employees, Numbers* of overseas subsidiaries and employees by region including management, with a function that tracks the times (as of December 31, 2017) personal computers are turned on and off. We also took steps such as eliminating the upper limit on the number of times half-day leaves can be taken and changing the Europe (4 companies) Total 198 employees North America (4 companies) flexible-time conditions of our flextime system, as actual or (Men 147, Women 51) Total 541 employees (Men 462, Women 79) provisional revisions to our human resources system. Asia (10 companies) Total 1,552 employees In fiscal 2017, our employees worked an average of (Men 936, Women 586) 1,927 hours per person. Going forward, we will supplement South America (2 companies) current initiatives by encouraging individual business Australia (4 companies) Total 1,180 employees Total 530 employees locations to revise work processes to reduce overall (Men 470, Women 60) (Men 1,062, Women 118) working hours. Total 24 companies, 3,971 employees (Men 3,077, Women 894) • Helping employees balance work and child care * Overseas subsidiaries (including non-consolidated subsidiaries) The Nippon Paper Group revised its action plan, in April Overseas Subsidiary Employees by Type of Employment 2016, and strives to support its employees in maintaining (as of December 31, 2017) work and child-care balance in accordance with Japan’s Unit Full-time Temporary Total Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next North Generation Children. Persons 541 0 541 Human Rights, Employment America Australia Persons 1,180 0 1,180 As one example, Nippon Paper Industries has Asia Persons 854 668 1,522 implemented systems that exceed the provisions stipulated Europe Persons 189 9 198 under Japan’s Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. This and Labor Responsibility South Persons 530 0 530 includes extensions to the exemption period for overtime America working hours, the application period for child care and All overseas Persons 3,294 677 3,971 subsidiaries paid leave for child rearing. Based on these actions, we have been designated by Japan’s Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that supports child rearing and Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization Promoting Work-Life Balance have obtained the right to display the Kurumin mark. Realizing a balanced workplace environment Data on balancing work and personal lives The Nippon Paper Group strives to establish an ideal Unit 2017 workplace environment that allows employees to reach Employees taking child-care leave1 Persons 26 their full potential while balancing work and family needs. Men Persons 0 Nippon Paper Industries, for example, has introduced Women Persons 26 flextime work hours for its head office, research facilities, recently giving birth % 100 branches, and the administrative sections of its mills. who returned to work % 100 Employees taking maternity/paternity leave1 Persons 148 • Work-style reform approaches Men Women Persons Persons 122 26 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is striving to reduce the Average number of days taken for maternity/ overall number of hours workers spend on the job. This is a paternity leave1 work-style reform intended to create vibrant workplace Men Days 3.4 environments. The Company believes that helping individual Women Days 78.0 employees maintain a desirable work-life balance will give Employees taking nursing-care leave1 Persons 1 rise to time and energy that will ultimately result in added Total number of working hours2 Hours 1,903 growth for the Company. The rate of annual paid leave taken by employees2 % 71.8 1 Data scope: Consolidated companies in Japan 2 Data scope: Non-management employees of Nippon Paper Industries Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 57 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization Women in the Workplace Action Plan based on the Act on Promotion of Creating greater opportunities for women Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Organizational invigoration, and securing human resources (Adopted by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in April 2016) against the backdrop of a declining birthrate, are two considerations that add to the importance of giving women 1. Make women at least 25% of new graduate hires for opportunities to succeed in the workplace. career-track positions. 2. For career-track women hired 8 to 12 fiscal years ago*, achieve an average continuous employment rate that is at least 80% that of the rate for men. Case 3. To expand the range of roles performed by women at production sites, identify issues that would arise Diversity management seminar (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) with the assignment of women to each workplace, consider solutions for these issues, and develop Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. held its second concrete plans for the workplaces to which women diversity management seminar in September 2017. will be assigned. * Women who joined the company during the fiscal years 2004 to 2008. In the first part of this two-part seminar, representatives from the CSR Division and the Human Resources Planning Office of the Personnel Dept. provided an overview of social trends and the Company’s career development initiatives for women. • Female management participation and recruiting At Nippon Paper Industries a large proportion of jobs is in The second part of the seminar was led by Junji Miyahara of Toray Corporate Business Research, mill settings and so low recruitment of women in the past is Inc.; Rumi Hagiwara of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.; and Jun a major reason for their low participation in our Tanabe of Fuji Xerox Learning Institute, Inc. The three management ranks now. To remedy this situation, and told attendees that we are approaching a time when double the participation of women in management by fiscal companies will no longer be able to manage with only employees having few if any other demands on their 2020, we are expanding the range of workplaces to which time; that they will have to accept people with time women are assigned. limitations imposed, for example, by childcare, nursing care, or their own medical treatment demands. They also talked about the consequent needs for work-style Percentage of female employees in management reforms that enable results to be produced under tighter Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (%) Nippon Paper Group (Japan)1 Nippon Paper Group (Overseas)2 (%) time constraints and management that respects diversity 5.00 23.2 25.0 in personal background and values. The seminar was attended by about one hundred employees and included 20.4 spirited discussions among attendees. 4.00 17.8 20.0 16.0 14.4 3.00 15.0 2.14 2.47 1.81 1.90 2.39 2.00 1.63 1.70 10.0 1.86 1.57 1.60 1.00 1.49 1.48 5.0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Diversity management seminar Beginning with fiscal 2013 percentages have been adjusted retroactively to exclude associate directors, employees commissioned for specific purposes, employees on temporary assignment from other companies, and other non-full-time personnel •Responding to present percentages of only full-time employees. to the Act on Promotion of Women’s 1 Figures are for the Nippon Paper Group’s consolidated companies in Japan. Participation and Advancement in the Workplace 2 Includes all managers of sections and higher level organizational units as of December 31. In working to create conditions that enable women to advance their careers, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established in April 2016 an Action Plan based on the Act Hiring of new graduates for career-track positions (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement Fiscal years 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 in the Workplace. Career-track hires 43 34 52 61 56 Women 6 6 11 11 14 Men 37 28 41 50 42 Percent women 14 18 21 18 25 58 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 • Network for career-track women Furthermore, Group employees can meet selfNippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has created a companydetermined skill needs by taking any of approximately 280 wide network for career-track women in all of its correspondence courses and joint training. Every employee workplaces. Within the network, leaders collaborate with is offered not only the ability to choose courses they want the Human Resources Planning Office to help network to take but also precious, mutually stimulating opportunities members address career-building concerns. In addition, for joint training with colleagues from other Group group activities are organized in two-year terms. In the first, companies. which began in November 2015, network members identified issues that could hinder women’s careers, and Training time for individual employees they developed recommendations on matters such as (Consolidated companies in Japan) systems for which needs will likely grow. The second term 6.8 hours/year of group activities began in January 2018. Through the network, we also conduct career training (2) Assignment of the right people to the right positions aimed at helping female career-track employees overcome Nippon Paper Industries periodically surveys employees to career-building challenges with the assistance of their ascertain what kind of job assignments they wish to have. immediate supervisors. Based on the results of these surveys, every effort is made to match employee strengths with job types. Female career-track employee network In addition, the Nippon Paper Group has implemented an internal recruitment system. Under this system, individual Human Resources Department Manager employees can consider their skills and how they want to Human Resources Planning Office Regular liaison meetings, guidance, support develop their career, and then apply for a position posted Groups of 5-8 by a Nippon Paper Group member. individuals Network leaders (3) Development of employees capable of acting on a global stage Human Rights, Employment Nippon Paper Industries and other Group companies have Members put in place programs such as one for overseas study. This program is supported by the dispatch of personnel to and Labor Responsibility overseas education institutions and by overseas Initiatives Aimed at Developing Human Resources assignments to the various offices of Nippon Paper Group. Support for the improvement and Through actions such as this, Nippon Paper Industries exercise of professional skills Co., Ltd. is striving to strengthen awareness and education, so that all of its career-track employees will be capable of Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization The Nippon Paper Group has identified five key elements taking on overseas assignments. for providing employees with equal opportunities for learning and for creating a framework enabling ambitious, capable individuals to further enhance their skills. Case (1) Support for self-development and voluntary Overseas Assignment System (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) skill acquisition The Nippon Paper Group supports employee selfNippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has implemented an overseas assignment system for career-track development and voluntary skill acquisition through means technical employees. The purpose of this system is to such as group training and rewards for acquiring develop human resources capable of working overseas. professional qualifications. In addition, job-level-based Participants spend a year and a half at a North American, training, such as that for new hires and new managers, is Australian, or other overseas location to experience work at these operations. They also use this time to improve conducted jointly by Group members to promote the their language skills. Through this system, participants development of employees throughout the Group. And improve their professional skills and work to understand training is pursued from a different cultures and broad perspective; joblifestyles by living and working overseas. They level-based training at also enhance their mills, for example, is awareness of the need to conducted not just for a build careers as people single mill but together with capable of working in a global arena. Internal training session neighboring mills. On overseas assignment (Paper Australia Pty Ltd.) Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 59 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Maintenance of a Vigorous Organization Fair Evaluation and Compensation Case Evaluation based on skills Implement small group activities globally and performance The Nippon Paper Group is implementing small group As part of its efforts to practice fair and transparent personnel activities in and outside Japan. The purpose of these activities is to achieve improvements in areas such as evaluations, Nippon Paper Industries lays out clear evaluation operations, quality, and costs. In fiscal 2017, Nippon criteria and conducts review sessions, in which managers Paper Industries Co., Ltd. held its 25th companyprovide feedback on performance evaluations, for all nonwide presentation meeting, while the Group held its management employees. Review sessions are an ninth presentation meeting, with participation by 12 Group companies located in Japan and overseas. The opportunity to ensure that employees understand and presentations helped attendees to better understand accept evaluation results and for setting the skill development their own workplaces and consider good practices from direction for individual employees. For decisions on other workplaces in Japan and abroad. promotions to management and other positions, the assistance of outside companies specializing in human resource assessment is called upon to enhance objectivity. Industrial Relations Improving the workplace environment through labor and Team judged most outstanding at the 25th Group-wide Presentation Conference management consensus The Nippon Paper Group strives to maintain a sound (4) Reinforcement of production frontline capabilities relationship with its employees. Labor unions have been Human resource capabilities at the production frontline formed at Nippon Paper Industries and the majority of its represent the heart of the manufacturing process. The consolidated subsidiaries. Irrespective of the existence of a Nippon Paper Group passes on to each generation the labor union, however, every effort is made to maintain technologies and skills nurtured over a lengthy period to smooth industrial relations at all Group companies. maintain and improve the capabilities of its human For example, under the common objective of building a resources. better company, Nippon Paper Industries has established a Nippon Paper Industries created a committee to variety of committees that cover such fields as the strengthen frontline capabilities in fiscal 2006. Nippon Paper operations of labor and management agreements, and Industries has organized and is operating systems under staffing adjustments. Labor-management agreements which technologies and skills that should be carried forward provide the basis for a variety of initiatives, as well as efforts at individual production sites are identified, and training is to improve the workplace environment. On the top of these prioritized based on analyses of the strengths and endeavors, regular central meetings of both sides’ leaders weaknesses of, and skills needed by, individuals. provide a forum to discuss diverse issues including corporate management and working conditions. (5) Support for the planning of lives and careers At Nippon Paper Industries, there are 4,688 labor union Given the hike in the public pension eligibility age, members (as of March 31, 2018). Workplaces are union implementation of a defined-contribution pension system, shops and all of the employees covered by collective and increasing diversification of lifestyles, employees must bargaining agreements are union members. consider a number of factors when planning their careers and life after retirement. Therefore, core companies within •Discussions of working conditions the Nippon Paper Group offer Life Plan Seminars and other Major changes to working conditions, such as alterations to types of seminars to enhance employee understanding of personnel systems and personnel downsizing, are in principle each company's and the government's programs, as well implemented on the basis of prior discussions between labor as the need to develop meaningful life plans that include and management. Nippon Paper Group companies do not health management. unilaterally impose changes on employees. Routine communication is critical for gaining employee understanding of company actions. The Group strives to engage in dialog with employees and labor union to provide such information as financial results. 60 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Responsibility to Communities As a comprehensive biomass company creating new products and growing its businesses, the Nippon Paper Group manages broad expanses of forests and owns large-scale production sites, so it has significant impacts on local communities and the people who live and work in them. Coexistence with these communities is critical to our own continued existence. Planting shirane-aoi (Japanese wood poppy) Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2017) Materiality Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Gaining understanding of the Nippon Paper Welcomed local school, neighborhood Communication opportunities Group’s business activities, in local communities association and other groups for tours, and and society at large engaged in other activities, such as joint sponsorship of events As a member of society, we shall proudly Gathered various opinions and evaluations Evaluations by stakeholders promote activities that contribute to social from stakeholders connected with our development. activities (To be used to improve activities) (Philosophy for social contribution activities) Policy and Management Coexistence with Local Corporate Identity Sharing Basic Stance 62 Communities and Society at Large Utilizing Company-Owned Forests 64 Employment Support 63 Advancing Science and Technology 63 Respect for Indigenous People 63 Preserving Biodiversity 63 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 61 Responsibility to Communities Policy and Management The Nippon Paper Group engages in a variety of social contribution activities to garner the trust of and remain close to local residents Basic Stance The Nippon Paper Group’s principal social contribution activities Principal activities Specific examples Page Coexisting with local communities, Local community activities contributing to the advancement of Cleaning activities Appreciation event at Asahiyama Zoo WEB society as a whole Children’s “emergency 110” patrol project (110 is the number to dial for emergency — Local community assistance in Japan) As one of its members, the Nippon Paper Group aims to safety and disaster Traffic safety initiatives 55 prevention contribute to society as a whole. While continuing to provide Participation in fire brigades — needed products, we would like to play a useful role in Preserving local Supporting Asukayama Takigi Noh plays WEB protection of the global environment and in the advancement community cultures Making wild herb habitat available to of culture and local communities. We are confident that Respect for indigenous people WEB building a consistent track record along those lines will earn indigenous people Protecting indigenous heritage sites 63 the trust of society and allow us to continue our business Participating in and sponsoring local events WEB activities in coexistence with local communities. Holding and Opening of recreational facilities to the The initiatives we engage in, both inside and outside participating in local public — events Japan, include cleanups of the areas around our mills and Holding summer festivals and other — events plants, support for vocational training in afforestation Copier-paper sale in support of the Pink WEB areas, and other locally focused activities; and operation of Ribbon Campaign the School of Friendship for Forests and Paper, mill tours, Participating in and cosponsoring social welfare events — Social welfare and other activities making use of forests and other activities Purchasing products made by social welfare groups — Group resources. Provision of a venue for a charity horse race — Community education Holding of CSR lectures (public seminars) — Advancing science Supporting the Fujihara Foundation of Philosophy and Principles for and technology Science 63 Social Contribution Activities Disaster relief Donations of money and emergency activities supplies WEB (established on April 1, 2004) Environmental activities Philosophy Tree planting activities Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 64 As a member of society, we shall proudly promote Utilizing the Group’s proprietary activities that contribute to social development. technology 42 Conducting business activities while protecting Blakiston’s fish owl habitat 41 Principles Preserving biodiversity Supporting the activities of the Shirane1. We shall pursue activities that contribute to cultural aoi Preservation Group 42 heritage and development. Eradicating invasive plant species from 63 2. We shall pursue activities that contribute to Iriomote Island conservation and improvement of the environment. Operating the Recycle Plaza Shiyukan WEB 3. We shall pursue activities that contribute to the Supporting the recycling activities of WEB development of communities. Promoting recycling organizations activities Recycling Paper-Pak containers 39 Recycling wood waste WEB Accountability to local communities Environmental risk communication 34 Specific activity themes Educational activities Providing opportunities Programs that welcome junior high school • Increase the community involvement of Group to tour group companies and their students for opportunities to experience a WEB company mills and overseas affiliates mills workplace • Promote activities that effectively utilize the resources Utilizing companyHolding the School of Friendship for and expertise of each Group company owned forests Forests and Paper 64 • Promote corporate citizenship activities in which our Internships, and programs that welcome employees play an active role students for opportunities to experience a WEB • Effectively use the company-owned forests in Japan Employment support workplace (about 90,000 hectares) Sponsoring workshops in line with local • Employ effective PR inside and outside the Group desires 63 Classes taught by employees Cooperation in teaching school classes WEB • Structure for promoting social contribution activities Music appreciation Inviting students to concerts Baseball tournaments WEB — The CSR Division takes the lead in promoting Group-wide Providing educational social contribution activities. Each Group company appoints a opportunities Ice hockey championships — through sports person responsible for overseeing social contribution activities. Cosponsoring the Fukuchiyama Marathon — Each responsible person develops a thorough understanding Providing products to Provision of paper products, printed — classrooms materials and publications of social contribution activities undertaken to date, and works to upgrade and expand their content and details. 62 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Responsibility to Communities Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Continuing to pursue business activities in coexistence with local communities Employment Support Respect for Indigenous People Case Case Sponsoring workshops in line with Protecting indigenous heritage sites local desires (Australia, Nippon Paper Resources Australia Pty. Ltd.) (Brazil, AMCEL S.A.) In 2016, ancient aboriginal stone tools were discovered AMCEL, which has expansive land holdings, including on the PTP plantation, one of the Australian plantation afforested areas, strives to maintain harmonious projects managed by Nippon Paper Resources Australia relationships and to further dialogue with local residents. Pty. Ltd. Experts performed an on-site survey, and As part of that effort, it asks local communities what in 2017 the area was workor daily-life-related topics they would like to learn registered as an aboriginal about, and holds regular workshops based on the heritage site. Dialogue responses received. with local aboriginal In fiscal 2017, workshops were held on processing organizations will be manioc root, harvesting açaí, raising poultry, gardening, continued and steps such making soap, and information processing. Led by as the posting of signs to AMCEL-invited experts, these workshops took place protect heritage sites will be in four areas, Amapá, Santana, Ferreira Gomes, and Stone tool discovered on the PTP taken to keep them in their plantation Tartarugalzinho, and lasted 4-10 days each. Participants, current condition. who numbered over 100 in total, indicated that they were very pleased with the workshops. Preserving Biodiversity Case Eradicating invasive plant species from Harvesting açaí Gardening Iriomote Island (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) In November 2017, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Advancing Science and Technology and the Iriomote Island Ecotourism Association held the first eradication activity targeting the Bay Biscayne creeping-oxeye, an invasive plant species, in a national Case forest on the island. This activity was conducted in accordance with an agreement signed with the Okinawa Supporting the District Forest Office, a part of the Japanese Forestry Responsibility to Fujihara Foundation of Science Agency's Kyushu Regional Forest Office in August (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) 2017. The company has also signed an agreement to partner with Iriomote Island Ecotourism Association in Communities Considered the “Nobel Prize of Japan,” the Fujihara conducting local activities. Award, presented by the Fujihara Foundation of Science, Iriomote Island is home to forests, including Japan’s a public interest incorporated association, recognizes most expansive mangrove forest and a subtropical outstanding contributions to science and technology by hardwood forest. It also hosts precious plant and animal Japanese scientists. Nippon Paper Industries lends species, such as the Iriomote wild cat, which has been financial support to the designated a special national treasure and is listed as Foundation to promote an endangered species IA. Unfortunately, however, science and technology. Policy and Management / numerous invasive species have been found across At the 59th Fujihara much of the island. Awards ceremony, held The Bay Biscayne creeping-oxeye, the target of the in June 2018, Naoto first eradication activity, reproduces rapidly and has a Nagaosa, Deputy significant negative impact on native species. Japan’s Director, RIKEN Center for Ministry of the Environment, therefore, has designated it Emergent Matter Science, an invasive species requiring immediate action. Nippon and Takashi Kadowaki, Paper Industries Co., Ltd. will continue to conduct Bay a Full-Time Visiting Biscayne creeping-oxeye eradication activities together Professor at Teikyo Naoto Nagaosa, Deputy Director with the Iriomote Island Ecotourism Association. University School of Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large of the RIKEN Center for Emergent Matter Science, is pictured second Medicine, were presented from left and Takashi Kadowaki, a with award certificates, Full-Time Visiting Professor at Teikyo University School of Medicine, is medals, and 10 million pictured third from left. yen each. Eradiation activity Activity participants Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 63 Responsibility to Communities Corporate Identity Sharing Conducting activities that enable local residents and employees to physically experience the essence of the Nippon Paper Group Utilizing Company-Owned Forests Case Conducting the annual School of Friendship for Forests and Paper (Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd., Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.) Comments from elementary school children (September 2017) A ceremonial photograph of I was amazed that all involved parties we could make postcards out of The mountain hike was a good little branches. experience; we even got to see where a bear had used its claws to scratch a tree. Walk in a forest owned by Nippon Paper Industries The School of Friendship for Forests and Paper is a handsSugenuma company-owned forest, through fiscal 2017, on course on the natural environment utilizing forests the school has been conducted 22 times, for a total of 737 (approximately 90,000 hectares) owned by Nippon Paper participants, including parents and children, and students Industries in Japan. With the aim of introducing participants from local schools. to the beauty and abundance of forests owned by the Since 2007, the Toyono School of Friendship for Forests company, the school is also an opportunity to experience and Paper has been held in Nippon Paper Industries’ Toyono the connection between forests and paper, an essential forest in Kumamoto Prefecture. Organized mainly by the item for everyday life. This initiative was first launched in the company’s Yatsushiro Mill, particular emphasis is placed on Sugenuma forest of Gunma Prefecture in October 2006. activities deeply rooted in the local community. One program The common programs that make up the school draw of this school incorporates such activities as a mill tour and is heavily on the knowledge and experience of employees. one example of how activities are modified to accommodate With Group employees serving as guides, for example, the needs of each region. participants enjoy walking through the forest and making paper from twigs they pick up. Participants are gathered School of Friendship for Forests and Paper from general public with the cooperation of the Japan https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/morikami/ Philanthropic Association. Since its inception at the (Japanese only) Case We got a real taste of using Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 2018 held hoes to plant trees. (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Nippon Paper Industries is advancing initiatives aimed at leaving a thriving forest to future generations. As part of that effort, tree-planting activities were begun in the company’s Sugenuma Forest in Gunma Prefecture in May 2010. The seventh iteration of this activity—the Marunuma Highland Tree Planting 2018—took place in May 2018. The number of participants—both Nippon Paper Group people and others, mainly from Tokyo—came to about 50 in all. Under the guidance of the Katashina Village Forest Participants planting trees Owners' Cooperative, participants used hoes to plant 100 Japanese larch seedlings. 64 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Company Profile (As of March 31, 2018) Trade Name Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Shares issued 116,254,892 Incorporation August 1, 1949 Shareholders Financial institutions 43.70%, foreign by category investors 23.99%, individuals and others Capital ¥104.873 billion 22.11%, other Japanese corporations 8.10%, securities companies 1.79%, Address 4-6 Kandasurugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan treasury stock 0.29% Telephone +81-3-6665-1111 Shareholders’ ¥393,386 million Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange (Securities code 3863) equity Total liabilities ¥989,638 million The Status of Debt Ratings (As of March 30, 2018) Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) Long-term bonds: BBB+ Long-term bonds: A Major Financial Indicators Trends Consolidated net sales1 Consolidated operating income1 Employees (consolidated)1, 2 Paper and Paperboard Business Paper and Paperboard Business Paper and Paperboard Business Daily-Life Products Business Energy Business Daily-Life Products Business Energy Business Daily-Life Products Business Energy Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business OtherBusinesses OtherBusinesses OtherBusinesses (Billions of yen) (people) (Billions of yen) 24 22.6 23.8 15,000 1,200 2.9 1,007.1 1,046.5 2.1 13,057 12,881 992.4 31.7 17.6 11,741 1,365 40.0 30.9 18 3.5 4.4 1,388 62.2 62.8 2.8 1,383 16.2 63.5 17.8 3.5 2,273 2,192 14.6 192.8 4.9 10,000 1,636 800 146.5 160.9 12 4.5 19 35 19 5.3 1,854 2,433 2,448 3.9 6 12.5 400 742.2 722.5 741.4 6.8 5,000 0.5 11.9 6,849 6,967 6,818 0 -5.5 0 -6 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Consolidated ordinary income Consolidated net income Total assets (consolidated)2 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 9 8.4 2,000 30 27.0 7.8 1,390.9 1,388.9 1,433.0 18.6 6 20 17.1 1,000 10 3 2.4 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Interest-bearing debt (consolidated)2 (Billions of yen) 1,000 703.8 678.5 693.6 500 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 1 Estimates based on re-organized segments formed in fiscal 2018. 2 Employees responsible for multiple divisions Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2018 65 Cover Photograph Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. company-owned forest 1. Sugenuma companyowned forest* 2. Shirane-aoi (Japanese wood poppy) blooming in the Sugenuma companyowned forest 3. Misaka company-owned forest* *Photo: Yuji Itsumi Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Head Office: 4-6 Kandasurugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan Issued: December 2018 Previous issue: December 2017 Next issue: December 2019 Inquiries: CSR Department Phone: +81-3-6665-1015 Fax: +81-3-6665-0309 Website: https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ External Evaluations Key ESG indices of which Nippon Paper Industries is a component The cost of the paper used in this report includes a portion of expenses for the use of timber discarded in forests following tree thinning. The Paper Used in This Report Covers: U-Lite Green 70 (PEFC) , Base weight: 157 g/m 2 Text pages: U-Lite Green 70 (PEFC) , Base weight: 104.7 g/m2 DBJ Environmental Rating In December 2017, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. received financing from the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) based on an environmental rating assigned by that institution. DBJ assigned us their highest environmental rating, citing our particularly advanced environmental This report was printed with a waterless printing process using initiatives. vegetable oil ink.
