Integrated Report 2018 Year Ended March 31, 2018 SINIC* Theory: A Compass for Corporate Management Our founder, Kazuma Tateishi, believed that solving social issues through business to create a better society required the ability to anticipate future social needs. He believed that a company needed a compass to help predict the future. As our compass, Mr. Tateishi formulated the SINIC predictive theory, which projects the future based on the cycle of interrelationships between Science, Technology, and Society. OMRON first announced this predictive theory to the world at OMRON’s founder, Kazauma Tateishi with Peter Drucker (left) the International Future Research World Congress in 1970. Since then, the SINIC Theory has been our compass for projecting into the future. * SINIC: Seed-Innovation to Need-Impetus Cyclic Evolution Past Future ltural Society Agricu y Ha iet nd oc icr veS af t i So ct nal Handi le ditio cr Techn aft c Col Tra chnics ics ty Te ie In Ancient d Pri Re lize y Te mit y Science na ar e Sc issa ria I stri st olog zation Soc Natur ch ive ni rim enc ien n du hn ndu riali iety al S cs P ci ce c Te ty ust ce ocie oci S ty al S Ind Socie Primiti ety Primit ve i dern Religi ve Mo nce Meta-Psycho e on Sci Modern logic Technology on onom Technology i z a ti M echan y S oci o us ety Me ce t S ocie ien taAut l Sc t Psy Contro ut yc on chon A o ti on c C gy S o m at iz a Te ho ati olo c ie i o n i m ty O p t S o ci e ch -Bi etics ty no olo tom hn C y b er n atio n log gic Au Tec ro S o ciety l Ps y Ele l Seed ctro tro Tec nic Cont gic Con y Cy hno rol Biolo g Innovation logy olo s be Techn tic rn eti one Need cs yc h Ps Impetus Bionetics Cyclic Evolution 187619451974200520252033(present) Industrial Society Optimization Autonomous Natural Society Society Society Mechanization Automation Cybernation Society Society Society Second Industrial Priority on Higher degree of Society offering Society allowing people Sustainable society Revolution productivity to individual freedom; information and to express themselives incorporating produce goods in IT revolution functions tailored to while living in harmony mechanisms of life abundance the individual with others From an Information Society to an Optimization Society, Vision and, Finally, an Autonomous Society The SINIC Theory predicts the future by looking at the past through the lens of three central elements: Society, technology, and science. The theory states that the transition from the Primitive Society of 1 million years ago to the Autonomous Society of the future is one cycle. According to SINIC, the year 2033 is predicted to be the year in which we reach the Natural Society, signalling the beginning of the second cycle. In the Natural Society, human creativity and technology harmonize with natural mechanisms. At present, we live in an Optimization Society in which the focus shifts from products and goods to more Strategy mindful endeavors. The Industrialization Society to this point generated products and wealth in abundance, the pursuit of which led to dramatic economic growth. However, the advent of this society brought with it significant new issues, including crowding, class divisions, destruction of the community, and more. The Autonomous Society will bring solutions to these social issues based on new sets of values. This society will share values, pursue meaningful experiences and psychological abundance, and allow individuals to live any way they see fit. This society will be a mature society in which people find joy in life and living. Seeking approval through social media, the spread of the sharing economy, and the rise of the circular economy are just a few signs that perfectly align with SINIC Theory predictions. Business Predicting the Future Through the Interrelationships of Science, Technology, and Society The basic philosophy behind the SINIC Theory is that the interrelationships among science, technology, and society lead to social change. Let us use the Cybernation Society as an example. We can see how the rise of cybernetics, computer science, and other synthetic sciences in the 1940s became the seeds of electronic control technologies, programming, and other technology. These technologies gave rise to the PC and the Governance internet, leading to the advent of the Cybernation Society. At the same time, the Cybernation Society demanded more data, along with more accurate and rapid data analysis. These demands forced us to produce CPUs and GPUs with faster processing power, make advancements in deep learning and other artificial intelligence technologies, and reach higher levels of sophistication in neuroscience and cognitive science. The evolution of these interrelationships serves as a driving force behind humanity’s desire to progress. Financial Information Seed Technology Innovation Impetus Need Progress -oriented Corporate Information motivation Science Society 1 Contents Vision Strategy 1 SINIC Theory: 16 VG2.0 Medium-Term A Compass for Corporate Management Plan Management 18 Sustainability Goals: Progress 4 A History of Creating Value 20 Message from the CFO 6 Value Creation Model 8 Message from the CEO 24 ROIC Management 26 Earnings Structure and Global Business 28 Market Share and Sales by Product 30 Our Stakeholders 32 Financial Highlights OMRON Integrated Report 2018 Integrated Report 2018 33 Non-Financial Highlights Year Ended March 31, 2018 34 11-Year Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 005_0394387913009.indd 1 2018/09/19 19:27:45 About the Cover OMRON Corporation contributes to sustainable society by means of our businesses through innovation driven by social needs. This cover represents the upward spiral of societal development through our unique SINIC theory. Editorial Policy The scope of this report covers the 183 companies of the OMRON Group, consisting of 165 consolidated subsidiaries and 17 nonconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method (as of March 31, 2018). OMRON Corporation contributes to the creation of a sustainable society by offering solutions to social issues through our business and by engaging in sustainability initiatives. We voluntarily disclose information to our stakeholders. This integrated report conforms to the integrated reporting frameworks recommended by the International Integrated Reporting Council and the World Intellectual Capital Initiative and refers to Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation issued by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Sustainabilityrelated disclosures have been written with reference to the GRI Standards. See our Sustainability website for a comparative table. https://www.omron.com/about/sustainability/guide_line/ 2 Vision Business Governance 36 Special Feature 1: 66 Message from the Chairman CTO Interview Creating Innovation Driven Strategy by Social Needs Anchored in the Future 68 Corporate Governance Business 72 Board of Directors and Auditors Creating Innovation in Focus Domains 42 Factory Automation 48 Healthcare Governance 52 Mobility Financial Information 54 Energy Management In Support of Innovation 78 Financial Section 56 Human Resources Management 58 Special Feature 2: Putting the OMRON Principles Financial Information Into Practice TOGA Corporate Information 60 Manufacturing 61 Environment 92 Corporate Information and More 62 Risk Management Corporate Information Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this integrated report with respect to OMRON’s plans and strategies as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forwardlooking statements involving risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions in OMRON’s markets, which are primarily Japan, the Americas, Europe, Greater China, and Asia Pacific; demand for and competitive pricing pressure on OMRON’s products and services in the marketplace; OMRON’s ability to continue to win acceptance for its products and services in these highly competitive markets; and movements of currency exchange rates. 3 A History of Creating Value Since our founding, OMRON has pursued innovation driven by social needs, leading the world in innovative ideas. We will continue to improve lives and contribute to a better society by creating value for the future. Social Issues/Needs Automation Society (1945-74) Cybernation Society (c) Tokyu Corporation /amanaimages Productivity improvements to Congestion in urban public Rising concern for personal health support high economic growth transportation resulting from changes in lifestyle OMRON Solutions Wider use of in-home Factory floor automation Social systems automation blood pressure monitors FY1960 FY1966 FY1967 FY1973 World’s first non-contact General purpose relays World’s first automated Digital blood pressure monitors switch (MY Series) train station system History and Sales Trend 1933 OMRON 1933established OMRON established 1970 Announced 1970 Announced the SINIC Theory the SINIC Theory 1988 1988 1959 Established 1959 Established Corporate Corporate Motto Motto 1974 Established 1974 Established Tateishi Institute ofInstitute Tateishi of Life Science Life Science EstablishedEstablished ManagementManagement Center Center in the in the Netherlands Netherlands 1960 Established 1960 Established Central Central R&D R&D Laboratory Laboratory and Singapore and Singapore 1989 1989 EstablishedEstablished ManagementManagement Center in U.S. Center in U.S. FY FY 1960 1960 1970 1970 1980 1980 1990 1990 4 Vision (1974-2005) Optimization Society (2005-) Strategy Business Population decline and Advanced information society Global warming soaring labor costs Technology speeding the wider Wider adoption of renewable Advanced labor savings use of digital devices energy and energy saving solutions for factories Governance FY1995 FY2011 FY2012 FY2015 FY2016 OKAO® vision image sensing PV inverters DC/DC converter for NX Series machine AI-equipped mobile technology idling stop system automation controller robots Financial Information 1994 1994 2003 2003 2012 Established Management 2012 Established Management Center inCenter India and in India Brazil and Brazil Established Established Management Management Established Established KeihannaKeihanna Technology Technology 2015 Revised 2015 Revised OMRONOMRON Principles Principles Center inCenter Chinain China Innovation Innovation Center Center 2017 Established 2017 Established Management Management Center inCenter Net sales Net sales Koreain Korea 2018 Established 2018 Established OMRONOMRON SINIC X SINIC X Target Target ¥1 trillion¥1 trillion Corporate Information VG2.0 VG2.0 ¥500 billion ¥500 billion Long-Term Long-Term G'90s G'90s GD2010 GD2010 VG2020 VG2020 Vision Vision 2000 2000 2010 2010 2020 2020 5 Value Creation Model OMRON value creation is anchored to future social needs as we work toward our vision of a better society. Innovation driven by social needs means creating new value through inspired solutions to social issues. At OMRON, we base value creation on the OMRON Principles and the SINIC Theory (future predictive model). We commercialize innovations as products and services for our customers, contributing to a better society as these solutions are put into use. Our value creation model results in business growth and sustainable corporate value improvement. As we grow, we generate larger amounts of management capital for use in creating innovation driven by new social needs. Business Creation Process at OMRON Management Capital (Input) Human Capital Inn Employees 36,193 ova tio (As of March 2018) n Dr Social and Relationship Capital Demographic iv e 1 Trends Identify Social n No. of Countries 117 Limited Issues by (As of March 2018) Resources Nears Financial Capital Technological eed lN Innovation Future Design cia Ratings AA-(R&I)/A(S&P) So 5 2 (As of March 2018) Sensing & Control Intellectual Capital + Think Patents 8,774 Launch (As of March 15, 2018) and Core Open R&D Expenses Monetize Technology Innovation Businesses Evolution ¥270 billion and (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) Business Manufactured Capital Model Capital Investment ¥160 billion 4 Develop 3 Design (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) Products and Co m Services Intellectual Capital, m Manufactured Capital, er cia Social and Relationship liz ati Capital on Growth Investment* ¥100 – ¥200 billion (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) *M&A + Alliances OMRON Principles 6 Vision Business Creation Process at OMRON Innovation Driven by Social Needs Identify Social Issues Identify signs of change in the world and search for social issues (including customer issues) in key areas of focus. Implement Near-Future Design Develop near-future design for the next three to ten years, anchored to our future vision of social issues, technological innovation, and developments in science. Evolue Core Technology and develop Model Design Strategy Evolve core technologies and design business models necessary for achieving our vision of the near future. Commercialization Develop Products and Services Develop products and services for customers and society. Launch and Monetize Businesses Incubate and grow businesses to solve social issues, while identifying new and emerging social issues. Goals for Business Domains Products and Services (Output) Social Value FY2020 Factory Customers: Contribute to economic growth through social Automation Manufacturers productivity Industrial Automation Digital improvement Business Auto Factory Automation Equipment Food and more P42 Governance Healthcare Customers: Contribute to healthy and vibrant Healthcare Business Users including lifestyles for people healthcare around the world professionals and consumers VG2.0 Healthcare & P48 Medical Equipment Targets Mobility Contribute to safe, P14, 16 Automotive Electronic secure, pleasant, and Components Business Customers: clean lifestyles for Social Systems, Solutions Auto makers people around the world Financial Information and Service Business Station and Traffic Railway / Roads Automotive Equipment P52 Electronic Maintenance / Components Services Energy Contribute to sustainable society by Management Customers: promoting the use of Sustainability Housing Makers, renewable energy Other Businesses and more Goals P54 PV Inverters, Other P18 Corporate Information Customers: Electronic and Mechanical Home Appliance Components Business Relays, Other Makers and more Open Innovation Human Capital Manufacturing, Risk Management Environment Management Corporate Governance 7 Message from the CEO “OMRON is solving social issues through our business, accelerating Innovation Driven by Social Needs.” Since our very founding, the OMRON mission has been to improve lives and contribute to a better society, believing that a business should create value for society through its key practices. We have become the company we are today by seeing the signs of global change, leading the world in taking on the issues of the times. We have become the company we are today by creating innovative value for society, through an idea we call Social Needs. Our aspirations to create innovation driven by social needs through our day-to-day efforts are defined in our corporate philosophy, the OMRON Principles. Today, the world changes at a speed and scale unprecedented in history. In response, we began implementing our new VG2.0 medium-term management plan in fiscal 2017, setting record highs for earnings and proving the success of strategies that are distinct from those of the past. During fiscal 2018, we intend to deliver even greater growth, guided by VG2.0 and our aspirations to create innovation driven by social needs. A History of Creating Value (P4) Value Creation Model (P6) OMRON Principles (P15) President and CEO August 2018 8 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Information Corporate Information 9 Looking Back on VG2.0 in Fiscal 2017 VG2.0 represents the final medium-term We believe these four domains present the management plan incorporated into VG2020, our most promising businesses for market growth in long-term vision leading through fiscal 2020. future society, as well as areas in which OMRON VG2.0 also includes growth strategies we intend technologies and products have the best chance to implement through the year 2030. Under to make a positive difference in the world. VG2.0, we have defined four focus domains: (1) Executing VG2.0 will not only help us solve social Factory Automation; (2) Healthcare; (3) Mobility; issues, but also generate self-driven growth for and (4) Energy Management. our businesses. VG2.0 in our Long-term Vision Focus Domains in VG2.0 Long-term Vision VG2020 2021Factory Automation Healthcare VG2.0 Sales ¥1 trillion Operating Income ¥100 billion EARTH-1 (2017-2020) STAGE GLOBE (2014-2016) STAGE (2011-2013) Mobility Energy Management In fiscal 2017, our first year operating under VG2.0, FY2017 Results we set record highs in net sales, gross profits, FY2017 Results Y/Y and net income, driven by strong performances in our Industrial Automation Business and Healthcare Net Sales ¥860.0 billion + 8.3 % Business segments. We also set records for gross profit margin, a yardstick by which we measure Gross Profit ¥357.7 billion + 14.7 % our customers’ assessment of our products and Operating Income ¥85.9 billion + 27.1 % services. We have used the profits generated to invest in future growth, including two acquisitions Net Income ¥63.2 billion + 37.3 % in our Industrial Automation Business segment. Gross Profit This positive cycle of growth has already shown Margin 41.6% + 2.3 %pt tangible results. FY2017 Results Y/Y Industrial Automation ¥396.1 billion + 19.7 % Business Healthcare Business ¥108.5 billion + 11.0 % Record high 10 Fiscal 2017 was also a year in which we made segment recorded sales growth of 19.7% (profit Vision great strides in innovative-Automation, our growth of 42.3%) year on year. Our Healthcare strategic concept for innovation in manufacturing. Business segment, another key growth driver for Our progress was especially apparent in our our company, captured rising global demand for Industrial Automation Business segment, a key blood pressure monitors among people suffering growth driver. We have developed innovative from high blood pressure. Combined with growth solutions hand in hand with customers who in emerging markets, this segment generated practice advanced manufacturing methods, in turn sales 10.9% higher (profit growth of 28.2%)* year introducing these innovations to other customers on year. for major successes. As a result of these Strategy *Excluding sales of OMRON Colin Co., Ltd. (sold in December 2016) activities, our Industrial Automation Business Looking Forward to VG2.0 in Fiscal 2018 Our financial goals for fiscal 2018 are ¥900 billion FY2018 Plan Y/Y in net sales, ¥93 billion in operating income, ¥64.5 Business billion in net income, and 42.5% in gross profit Net Sales ¥900.0 billion + 4.7 % margin. As you will read below, fiscal 2018 is an important year for us in progressing toward our Gross Profit ¥382.5 billion + 6.9 % goals and greater growth for fiscal 2020 and Operating Income ¥93.0 billion + 8.3 % beyond. Net Income ¥64.5 billion + 2.1 % Gross Profit Margin 42.5% + 0.9 %pt Governance Accelerating Growth Through Focus conjunction with AI-equipped controllers. i-BELT Domains replicates and automates the skills of experienced Fiscal 2018 will be a year of accelerating growth in engineers to detect the warning signs of our four focus domains. In particular, we will production line stoppages. This, in turn, continue to drive group-wide growth through our contributes one solution to the desperate Factory Automation and Healthcare businesses, shortage of skilled workers who are well-versed in Financial Information which address significant social issues. manufacturing processes. Our Industrial Automation Business will execute innovative-Automation to work even closer with We plan to grow our Healthcare Business customers on their production floors. Here, the segment through three core categories segment will solve customer challenges and bring contributing to healthy and comfortable lives for innovation to manufacturing via automation, the people of the world: (1) Cardiovascular enriching the lives of people all over the world. As Disease; (2) Respiratory Disease; and (3) Pain one example, we plan to double the number of Management. Of these three, our main focus will Corporate Information our Automation Centers to 35 worldwide this year. be to achieve Zero Events related to Industrial Automation engineers will work with cardiovascular disease and complications customers to offer innovative solutions through therefrom. Our ultimate vision is to ensure zero unique product lines and services, developed over events of life-threatening seizures, including many years. i-BELT is another example of stroke and myocardial infarction associated with innovation in manufacturing. This service collects, high blood pressure. We plan to unveil new analyzes, and utilizes production floor data in products this year to support this mission, 11 including a combination blood pressure monitor/ This is just one way in which OMRON will electrocardiograph. When we combine the data engage in open innovation with partners and gathered by these breakthrough devices with customers to solve serious social issues. patient monitors and biological information from Creating Innovation in Focus Domains (P42,48) external partners, we will learn much more about the causes of high blood pressure and blood pressure fluctuations than we know today. We will use the results of these studies to work closely with personal care physicians to achieve our dream of Zero Events for patients throughout the world. Managing Technology for Innovation To accelerate technological development further, Driven by Social Needs we established the Innovation Exploring Initiative The pace of technological innovation and changes HQ in April 2018. This entity reports directly to the in cultural values is more dramatic than ever, and CTO and functions as the hub for technology we envision many serious social needs at local innovation across our organization. The Innovation and global levels arising in the future. In the Exploring Initiative HQ is responsible for end-tomeantime, AI, IoT, robotics, and other end technology management, coordinating with technological innovations have advanced much divisions and functional departments to perform more quickly than anyone thought possible. These near-future design for society, draft technology technology innovations lie at the core of the strategies, and incubate potential businesses. We OMRON evolution in Sensing & Control + THINK. have also taken the step to establish OMRON At OMRON, we see the coming social and SINIC X Corporation (OSX), under the umbrella of technological changes as opportunities to grow, as the Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ. OSX is we fulfill our mission to solve social issues. In responsible for near-future design and backcasting fiscal 2015, we created the new role of chief strategies to develop those technologies technology officer to capture every technologynecessary for a brighter future. Stronger related opportunity available. Our CTO formulates technology management of this kind will ensure group technology strategy and identifying that we create innovation driven by social needs. technology development for core crossSpecial Feature 1: CTO Interview (P36) organization technologies, as well for the core technologies used in each business. This new role is just one more way in which OMRON leverages the strengths of our entire organization to make advancements in creating innovation driven by social needs. 12 Vision Strategy Business Governance Supporting Innovation Driven by Social Needs Financial Information ROIC Management which have proven to have the greatest potential OMRON practices ROIC management as the for growth. best method to speed our engagement of social Meanwhile, we are optimizing our Backlights issues around the world. We operate nearly 90 Business, selling OMRON Laserfront, Inc.* (part business units through various companies, each of our Industrial Automation Business), and taking striving to solve social issues to improve lives and other measures deemed rational under ROIC. contribute to a better society. To accomplish this In this way, OMRON makes smarter investments mission, we must prioritize and allocate resources for our future, while at the same time engaging in Corporate Information to maximize value in return. We believe ROIC to ongoing structural reform to secure our platform be the fairest method to assess the performance for profitability and growth in line with the rules of of our diverse group of businesses, each facing ROIC management. different challenges. As one specific example, we *Finalized on August 1, 2018. have invested in acquisitions and production Message from the CFO (P20) ROIC Management (P24) capacity expansion in our Industrial Automation Business and Healthcare Business segments, 13 Sustainability Initiatives services, working with customers, partners, and OMRON set sustainability goals in fiscal 2017, society. Sustainable business practices mean that ensuring sustainability was a part of our VG2.0 we meet the expectations of our stakeholders. plan. This demonstrates our commitment to We do this by building a stronger business solving issues we consider material. platform, supported by talented employees and Our sustainability issues focus on two major competitive product quality management. In the areas: issues to solve through our business and year since we set our goals, we have monitored those for sustainable business practices. Our and made directional adjustments to our initiatives based on these goals tie directly to our sustainability initiatives. I believe we have started vision of a better society, the Sustainable Develop to see true progress in accelerating innovation Goals of the United Nations, and other targets to driven by social needs through sustainability. ensure a sustainable international society in the future. Solving through business means to create new value through innovative products and VG2.0 (P16) Progress of Sustainability Goals (P18) Newly Emerging Social Needs Drive New Innovation In fiscal 2018, we will continue to invest in future Management Indicators growth and corporate value improvement. Of our six financial goals for fiscal 2020, we FY2018 Plan FY2020 Targets expect to achieve four of them in fiscal 2018 (Gross profit margin, ROIC, ROE, and EPS). Net Sales ¥900 billion ¥1 trillion OMRON is growing steadily in earning power, Gross Profit Margin 42.5% Over 41% and we will continue to grow as we work to achieve our fiscal 2020 goals for net sales and Operating Income ¥93 billion ¥100 billion operating income, as well. ROIC Approx. 12% Over 10% Change is the only constant. It is a truism that ROE Approx. 12% Over 10% means new social needs will always emerge. As technological and social change become more EPS ¥306 Over ¥300 disruptive, OMRON will have more opportunities FY2020 Targets expected to be achieved in FY2018 to improve lives and contribute to a better society. Despite deepening trade frictions and other uncertainties, we will seize the opportunities presented. We will monitor changes in the market environment, execute our action plans, and invest in people and in research and development. As We will push forward together, creating innovation our investments in future growth translate into driven by social needs to improve lives and results, we will take on even bigger social issues. contribute to a better society. OMRON is a corporate group on which people Thank you for your continued support. can always depend, and we are an organization that continues to live up to the high expectations of people from all over the world. 14 Vision OMRON Principles Strategy Business Governance Sustainability Policy We believe a business should create value for society through its key practices. Financial Information We are committed to sustainably increasing our long-term value by putting Our Mission and Values into practice.  e uphold a long-term vision in our business practices to create solutions to W society’s needs. We operate as a truly global company through our fair and transparent management practices. We cultivate strong relationships with all of our stakeholders through responsible engagement. Corporate Information We consider Sustainability Policy to reflect the same meaning and content as declared by our Management Philosophy based on the OMRON Principles. Namely, “We are committed to sustainably enhancing our long-term corporate value by putting the OMRON Principles into practice.” 15 VG2.0 Medium-Term Management Plan A Road Map Anchored in the Future In 2011, OMRON started Value Generation 2020 (VG2020), a plan that outlines a 10-year vision for our company. VG2.0, our medium-term management plan launched in fiscal 2017, is the last stage of VG2020. Spanning four fiscal years, VG2.0 also defines our long-term strategy to respond to social change beyond the timeframe. In drafting VG2.0, we forecast future world trends and social changes, incorporating these projections of the future into our strategies. VG2.0 also reflects considerations of the SINIC theory (OMRON’s unique future predictive model) and Sustainable Development Goals*. Innovation driven by social needs. It is a core tenet of the OMRON Principles and a concept driving us to work with customers and partners, leveraging open innovation to address four core areas of emerging social needs: Factory Automation, Healthcare, Mobility, and Energy Management. * Goals for sustainable development adopted by the United Nations. Growing Concern for Social Issues OMRON Sustainability Labor shortages Adapting to changes in manufacturing VG2.0 Business Strategies Frequent traffic accidents, congestion Aging society Deteriorating urban environment Soaring medical costs 1. Redefine focus domains and maximize the strength of businesses 2. Evolve business models 3. Reinforce core technologies Advancing climate change Rapid Technological Innovation Collaborative Creation with Partners Operations/Functional Strategies AI Human Capital Management, Manufacturing, and Risk Management IoT Robotics 16 VG2.0 and Sustainability Initiatives Vision OMRON has aligned sustainability targets with our VG2.0 goals to pursue sustainable corporate value through the generation of social value. Based on the OMRON Sustainability Policy, we identified social issues in VG2.0 to be solved through four focus business domains, while selecting core sustainability issues to support our execution of VG2.0 as well as answer the expectations of our stakeholders. We set goals in these areas to achieve by fiscal 2020, and began working toward these goals in fiscal 2017. Strategy In the same year, we added progress toward VG2.0 and sustainability indicators* evaluated by third parties into the mediumand long-term performance-linked stock based compensation system for our officers and directors. * Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Business Principles Policy VG2.0 Targets A global value-creating group that is qualitatively Governance Sustainability Initiatives and quantitatively superior Social Issues to be solved through our Business P42 Net Sales ¥1 trillion FA Healthcare Mobility Energy Management Operating Income ¥100 billion CEO Message (P14) Financial Information 2030 Shared Goals (SDGs) Among International Society Collaborative Creation with Partners Issues Responding to Stakeholder Expectations P56 Human Capital Management Manufacturing Risk Management Corporate Information https://www.un.org/ sustainabledevelopment/ 17 Sustainability Goals: Progress During fiscal 2017, OMRON pursued sustainability goals tied to VG2.0. These goals were based on sustainability policies established by our board of directors in fiscal 2016. Having pursued these goals for one year, our executive officers met in the Executive Council to discuss our progress, adding and updating certain goals based on our fiscal 2017 performance. Our board of directors received a report about progress and revisions, performing oversight of the OMRON sustainability initiatives. (Note) Selected goals presented here; see reference pages for progress related to certain goals. See the OMRON corporate website for more about progress and initiatives. Solving Social Issues Through Our Businesses red: targets updated or added Sustainability Targets (Fiscal 2020 Goals/KPI) Factory Automation Create new products leading to innovative-Automation in four focus industries P42 Respond to labor shortages and – Create Controls Technologies for Manufacturing diversifying manufacturing practices Innovation – Blood pressure monitor sales: 25 million units /year Healthcare Develop analytical technologies to continuously track Zero brain and cardiovascular blood pressure fluctuations P48 diseases, respiratory diseases Nebulizer + asthma wheeze monitor sales: 7.65 million units/year Create safe driving support systems, technologies Mobility Create 360° recognition technologies for advanced Reduce traffic accidents, driving support/selfdriving vehicles P52 environmental footprint of Sales of vehicles with eco-friendly products: 12 million automobiles units/year (Increase ratio of high fuel efficiency products: 50%) Energy Management Cumulative shipped capacity of solar power/storage battery systems: 11.2GW P54 Promote the use of renewable Build the energy resource aggregation business using energy, CO2 reductions PV/storage system (Japan) During fiscal 2017, we made steady progress toward achieving year 2020 sustainability goals for social issues to be solved through our businesses. We added goals under healthcare and energy management. These goals call for new technologies and new businesses in combination with progress on our ongoing initiatives. In mobility, we raised our goals to reflect progress to date. We also added goals seeking greater impact on the environment in parallel with our business plan. 18 Issues Responding to Stakeholder Expectations Vision red: targets updated or added Sustainability Targets (Fiscal 2020 Goals/KPI) Human Capital Management Talent Attraction and Continue expanding TOGA*1, Development Accelerate the PDCA implementation via employee engagement surveys Diversity and Inclusion Ratio of women in managerial roles (Japan): 8% Strategy Wellness Management Improve awareness of wellness management*2 P56 (company-wide awareness of Boost5*3) Occupational Safety and Health International OSH*4 certifications: At sites representing 80% of production capacity Respect for Human Rights and Define and adopt due diligence processes for human Labor Practices rights Manufacturing/Environment Product Safety and Quality Produce safety assessments for newly developed Business products: 100% Improve product safety assessments Supply Chain Management Sustainability self-checks at partner suppliers: 100% P60 implementation; score of 85 points or higher Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Reduce GHG emissions by 4% Emissions (vs. fiscal 2016, SBT conformity*5) P61 Appropriate Management and Reduce mercury through the adoption of digital Reduction of the use of thermometers and digital blood pressure monitors: Hazardous Substances 69 tons/year Governance Risk Management Fair Business Practices Promote OMRON Group rules in all global bases Information Security, Personal Global training for ethical conduct P64 Information Protection Build a new information security system *1 TOGA: The Omron Global Awards *2 Awareness: Awareness and personal practice of OMRON wellness management programs *3 Boost5: Five areas of physical and mental health: Exercise, Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition, Smoking *4 OSH: Occupational Safety and Health Financial Information *5 SBT: Science Based Target. International initiative asking companies to set science-based greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. Our fiscal 2017 progress toward achieving year 2020 sustainability goals to meet stakeholder expectations were generally in line with plan. Respect for human rights and labor practices was our focused issue in fiscal 2017. The Executive Council established a group management framework. Based on the framework, we conducted a self-assessment of human rights and labor practice risks at our production centers (including overseas centers), taking action as necessary. Corporate Information For fiscal 2018, we have added goals related to employee wellness. We launched the Boost5 program, which assesses mental and physical wellness. OMRON added goals for product safety and quality for fiscal 2018 to improve manufacturing quality management. Beginning fiscal 2018, OMRON will pursue a new goal to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions in conformity with SBT. We are moving forward with initiatives to reach carbon zero by fiscal 2050. 19 Message from the CFO I was named senior general manager of the Global Strategy HQ in March 2014. In April 2017, I assumed the post of chief financial officer of the OMRON Group. At present, I hold both CFO and senior general manager titles, responsible for both group finance and management strategy. I joined OMRON as a freshly graduated engineering student. Over the next ten years, I worked on development for automatic control technics. Later, I went on to hold positions in business and headquarters management strategy, group resource management (including human resources and administration), and a variety of other posts. A CFO with both technical and business backgrounds might be an exception to the norm today; however, I believe my experience is a strength for a company like OMRON that has declared itself a leading technology company since the beginning. Technological innovation has changed so much in our world. I believe any financial strategy now must integrate management, business, and technology strategies. I will continue to rely on my experience, offering a high-level perspective to the OMRON decision-making process. Koji Nitto Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer CFO and Senior General Manager, Global Strategy HQ August 2018 20 Fiscal 2017: A Positive Cycle of Growth Vision I view fiscal 2017, our first year under the VG2.0 areas shifted our product mix and led to gross plan, as a year in which we created a positive profit margin gains: (1) Constant attention to cycle of growth. improving value added and reducing fixed costs First, I will address measures we took to (just mentioned); (2) Concentration of strengthen corporate earning power through management resources for growth in our highimproved gross profit margin. For fiscal 2017, we margin Industrial Automation Business; and (3) recorded a gross profit margin of 41.6%, a sharp Ongoing company-wide structural reform. I am Strategy 2.3-point jump compared to the prior year. What confident that our corporate earnings power has drove this improvement? Our practice of ROIC reached a new stage. management, two specific factors that I wish to We are using our profits as a resource to mention here. The first factor was improved value accelerate growth investments in technology added ratio. This growth in value added ratio management in our organization as a whole, and stems from coordinating production, in our mainstay Industrial Automation Business development, sales, and planning functions. This and Healthcare Business in particular. These two Business coordination leads to a better mix of high-valuebusinesses were the workhorses driving us to added products, as well as cost savings through record-high OMRON Group sales. standardized components. The second factor was We will reach new levels of corporate value as lower fixed manufacturing costs, achieved through we continue to repeat this growth cycle, building gains in productivity generated by industrial our earnings power, investing for market engineering (research into manufacturing dominance, and growing our revenue base. processes). Consistent, intentional efforts in three Governance Overall Raise added value through integrated production, sales, etc. Sales Growth Improve GP Financial Information Margin Growth Cycle Industrial Automation Business Healthcare Business Growth Investments Corporate Information Industrial Automation Technology Healthcare Business Business Management 21 ROIC Management Builds True Earnings Power OMRON has selected ROIC as a key management 10% and 15% to be appropriate. Accordingly, we indicator to measure the profitability of our require business divisions to deliver a minimum invested capital. We believe ROIC correctly assess 10% ROIC. Where a business cannot reach 10% the profitability across multiple businesses having ROIC, we assess the business’s future and market different characteristics. This, in turn, allows us to value, taking action as necessary. For example, invest our resources wisely. ROIC management during fiscal 2017 we introduced structural has become familiar throughout our business, an reforms in our Micro Devices Business, which has accepted company-wide measure we use to struggled with profitability. More specifically, we encourage ongoing improvement. Our activities to closed the smartphone microphone business, improve gross profit margin, mentioned earlier, while we integrated the competitive MEMS stem from our focus on ROIC. ROIC management business into our Electronic and Mechanical consists of two components: Down-top Components Business. At the same time, we management and portfolio management. Downmoved the important technologies and expertise top ROIC management is a more detailed key of the R&D and manufacturing departments under performance indicator tied to activities in the local the management of headquarters. We also sold workplace. Portfolio management assesses our the shares of OMRON Laserfront Inc. and more than 90 business units using a combination continued with structural reform measures at our of sales growth and market growth. We ensure Backlights Business, downsizing the scope ROIC management is the tool by which operations. management and local workplaces view our Practicing ROIC management in this way, we business. This is how we strengthen our ability to generate value (profits), which is used to create generate value and earnings power, as well as even greater value through correct cash allocation establish a persistent growth cycle. For fiscal 2017, and investment management. we generated an extremely high ROIC of 12.7%. Under VG2.0, we consider ROIC of between Balancing Discipline and Risk in Investment Management We will focus the resources we generate through set a minimum 10% ROIC as the hurdle for improved earnings power to invest in promising recovering our investment. Obviously, we require growth areas, speeding initiatives for innovation a higher rate of return for projects that demand driven by social needs. higher returns from a standpoint of strategic The first half of VG2.0, fiscal years 2017 and value. Acquisitions are subject to annual 2018, is a time for us to solidify our growth performance reviews to determine whether structure, bolstering sales and other front office results are in line with plans. If progress is not functions. We will also increase investments in satisfactory, we monitor the project to understand research and development, facilities, and M&A. what measures are being taken. I am proud to say Speaking of M&A, we made two acquisitions that each of the five M&A transactions over the during 2017 in our Industrial Automation Business. past four years have outperformed our When we consider an acquisition, we give priority expectations, offering dramatic synergies with our to the type of synergies and innovation we expect existing businesses. from combining the resources of the target with our own. Simple addition is not acceptable. We must be confident of multiplicative effects gained through synergies. As an objective standard, we 22 M&A Transactions Since Fiscal 2014 Acquisition Company Name Company Overview Vision (FY) NS Indústria de Aparelhos Nebulizer manufacturer with the number one share of the 2014 Médicos Ltda. nebulizer market in Brazil 2015 Delta Tau Data Systems, Inc. U.S.-based manufacturer of world-class motion controllers U.S.-based manufacturer of a wide range of industrial robot 2015 Adept Technologies, Inc. models Japan-based manufacturer of ultra-compact high-definition Strategy 2017 Sentech Co., Ltd. industrial cameras U.S.-based manufacturer of industrial code readers 2017 Microscan Systems, Inc. incorporating industry-leading reading technologies Research and development expense is an type of investment we must undertake as a Business important long-term investment for the OMRON manufacturing company if we are to develop Group. We have set a standard for R&D expense innovations that improve lives and contribute to a at 7% of sales, and we intend to raise this level to better society. Accordingly, we will continue to 7.5% by fiscal 2020. Our target for investments in make bold investment decisions that challenge core technologies, including AI and robotics, is the frontiers of science, balancing discipline and about 1% of sales. Dedicating capital to the risk to deliver to the world innovation driven by progress of technology represents up-front social needs. investments that will bear fruit for corporate Governance growth 10 and 20 years down the line. This is the Appropriate Cash Management and Profit Distribution OMRON distributes profits according to principles target for dividend payout ratio and dividend on of appropriate cash management and our own equity is approximately 30% and 3%, respectively. profit distribution policy. Our profit distribution Why did we add a dividend on equity target of 3% Financial Information policy prioritizes growth investment, stable to a dividend payout ratio? We did this to avoid dividends, and stock buybacks, in that order. We wide swings in dividend payments, even in the engage actively in growth investments, including event we change earnings forecasts during the M&A activities. At present, we hold cash reserves fiscal year. Share buybacks will be performed as at a level of between one and two months’ sales, opportunities present themselves, balanced by a policy we intend to continue. We used internal growth investment plans and cash on hand. In reserves for the past five corporate acquisitions. July 2017, we set a one-year scope of ¥20 billion However, we would consider borrowing funds for share repurchases, securing the entire amount Corporate Information from outside sources—after considering the as of May 2018. impact on our credit rating—if a promising growth Speaking on behalf of OMRON management, investment demanded more cash than we held in we will redouble our efforts to build corporate reserve. value as we implement the growth cycle. Once we have allocated profits to growth Thank you for your support of the OMRON investment, we next look to shareholder return. Group. Under the fiscal years covered by VG2.0, our 23 ROIC Management OMRON has selected ROIC as a key performance indicator for our business. We stress ROIC management throughout our organization to encourage further improvement. Our VG2.0 medium-term management plan emphasizes ROIC management, which we will use to reach a new level of growth. Why ROIC? OMRON encompasses a number of business divisions with varied characteristics. We believe ROIC is an excellent measure for assessing ROIC business performance fairly for each business. Management Using operating income or operating income margin as an indicator doesn’t account for variances due to the nature or scope of a business. ROIC, on the other hand, measures return on invested capital, providing a fair Down-Top Portfolio assessment. Under VG2.0, we have defined four ROIC Tree Management focus domains. ROIC is an indispensable tool as we continue to grow our unique business portfolio. More specifically, ROIC management consists of Down-Top ROIC Tree and Portfolio Management. Down-Top ROIC Tree Down-Top ROIC Tree breaks ROIC into key Down-Top ROIC Tree performance indicators for each department, KPI Drivers allowing us to improve ROIC at the most basic operating level. Using simple ROS or invested Sales in Focus Industries / Areas Gross Profit Margin Sales of New / Focus Products capital turnover as ROIC indicators are ineffective, Selling Price Control Added-Value % since they do not relate directly to front-line Variable Cost Reduction, Value % operations. On-site managers would have trouble Defect Cost % thinking of ways to improve ROIC using these ROS indicators. However, we can break ROIC down Per-Head Production #Units Fixed Manufacturing Automation % Costs % into automation/head count reduction or facilities (Headcount Reduction) turnover as KPIs of manufacturing departments. Labor Costs-Sales % SG&A % Invested Capital Turnover With these indicators, managers can finally see R&D % ROIC how their goals tie directly to ROIC improvement Inventory Turnover Months initiatives. At OMRON, one of our greatest Working Capital Slow-Moving Inventory Months strengths is our unified approach to improving Turnover Credits & Debits Months ROIC from the ground level up. Facilities Turnover Fixed Asset Turnover (1/N Automation Ratio) 24 Portfolio Management Vision OMRON consists of approximately 90 business We consider both the economic value and the units, each subject to a portfolio management market competitiveness of a business to allocate system that assesses the economic value of the limited resources in an optimal manner. This unit according to (1) ROIC and (2) sales growth assessment system allows us to identify the rate. In this way, OMRON management can make growth potential of each business unit, making an proper and timely decisions related to new optimal allocation of our resources. business entry, growth acceleration, restructuring, Strategy or divestiture to drive improvements in OMRON Group value. Assessing Economic Value Assessing Competitiveness B S B S Sales Growth Rate (%) Market Growth Rate (%) Business Expecting Growth Investment C A C A Profit Restructuring Examining Regrowth ROIC (%) Market Share (%) Embracing ROIC Management Governance To promote ROIC management more widely, we ROIC Translation Under ROIC Management 2.0 introduced ROIC Management 2.0 in 2015. ROIC Management 2.0 incorporates a qualitative (V) interpretation of ROIC. The interpreted formula Value to our Customers ROIC tells us to add needed management resources (N) Financial Information and generate greater levels of value to our (N) (L) Needed Management Loss-Making customers (V), while reducing loss-making Resources Management Resources Goods, Money, Time Muri, Muda, Mura management resources (L). Using this simple (overburden, waste, unevenness) interpreted formula, our employees in charge of sales or development functions who may be Actively invest needed management unfamiliar with financial statement concepts are resources (N) in order to create value able to envision ROIC improvement measures in their day-to-day work. Realize value to our customers (V) more Corporate Information Staff in charge of business unit accounting and than the investment amount finance act as ambassadors responsible for Reduce loss-making management resources (L) promoting ROIC Management 2.0. Ambassadors and shift/invest it to (N) provide simple case studies of successful ROIC Management 2.0 initiatives to raise awareness of ROIC on the front lines of our businesses around the world. 25 Earnings Structure and Global Business OMRON manufactures and sells market-leading sensing and control products in 117 countries around the world. Our products include control equipment, electronic components, automotive electronic components, social systems, and healthcare. Other Businesses Eliminations and Corporate Identifying and developing the next generation of OMRON businesses 1% Healthcare Business (HCB) ¥2.8 billion Industrial Automation Business (IAB) Providing a comprehensive lineup OMRON’s mainstay 6% of healthcare products for home and hospital use business; innovating global manufacturing through factory ¥54.8 billion automation 13% ¥108.5 billion Fiscal 2017 7% Net Sales by Segment 46 ¥396.1 % ¥63.7 billion billion ¥860 15% ¥131.2 billion billion 12% ¥102.8 billion Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) Offering social infrastructure systems for a safer, more Automotive Electronic Electronic and Mechanical comfortable society Components Business (AEC) Components Business (EMC) Developing new ideas in Providing the market with automotive electronics to make sophisticated components that automobiles safer and more create seamless relationships environmentally friendly between people and machines Fiscal 2017 Earnings by Business Segment (Billions of yen) BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) OPERATING INCOME MARGIN Industrial Automation Business (IAB) 396.1 74.0 18.7% Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) 102.8 12.1 11.8% Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) 131.2 5.8 4.4% Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) 63.7 4.1 6.5% Healthcare Business (HCB) 108.5 11.2 10.3% Other Businesses 54.8 (2.1) — Eliminations and Corporate 2.8 (19.2) — Total 860.0 85.9 10.0% 26 Vision Asia Pacific 13% ¥112.2 billion Japan Fiscal 2017 38 % Ratio of overseas Greater China Net Sales ¥328.5 billion Strategy sales to net sales Approx. 20% by Region* ¥860 ¥174.6 62% billion billion Europe 15% Americas 14 Business ¥124.2 billion % ¥120.5 billion Governance Asia Pacific 18% 6,662 Japan Ratio of overseas Fiscal 2017 32 % employees to Employee Ratio 11,554 total employees by Region* Financial Information Approx. 68% Greater China 36,193 Employees 32% Worldwide Americas 11,463 Europe 12% 4,251 6% Corporate Information 2,263 * As of March 31, 2018 (Note) Regional categories are defined as follows: Americas: North America, Central America, South America Europe: Europe, Russia, Africa, Middle East Greater China: China, Taiwan, Hong Kong Asia Pacific: Southeast Asia, Korea, India, Oceania 27 Market Share and Sales by Product The six OMRON business segments each feature product lines that boast top share in global or Japanese markets. Industrial Automation Business Fiber Sensors Output + Robot 12% Safety Light Curtains 36% Sales by Product Vision Sensors Servo Motors and Drivers Input 52% Mobile Robots Logic 40% Programmable Share of the ControlControllers Related Equipment Market (Japan) Approx. Source: Nippon Electric Control Equipment Industries Association Safety Controllers Motion Controllers Electric and Mechanical Components Business Other Electric 22% Relays, Switches, Components Connectors (Amusement Equipment, Sales by Image Sensing, Product etc.) Power Relays for Power Supply Units for 78% Printed Circuit Boards Amusement Devices 20% Surface-Mounted Switches Share of the Relays Market (Global) Approx. Image Sensing MIL Connectors Source: Internal survey Automotive Electric Components Business Switches 26% (Power Window Switches, Other Power Seat Switches, etc.) (Passive Entry/ Sales by Push-Button Engine Start 49% Product Systems, Keyless Entry Systems, 25% etc.) Power Window Switches Motor Controllers (Electric Power Steering 35% Controllers, Power Share of the Body Control Sliding Door Controllers, Units for Miniature etc.) Vehicles Market (Japan) Approx. Electric Power Steering Source: Internal survey Controllers 28 Vision Public Transportation (Automated Ticket Gates, Social Systems, Solutions Ticket Vending Machines) and Service Business 13% Other (Software 31% Development, Ticket Vending etc.) Sales by Machines Strategy Product Engineering, Environmental Solutions 48% 8% Automated Ticket Gates Road Traffic 50% (Road Traffic Share of the Station Management Systems, Equipment Market etc.) (Japan) Approx. Business Source: Internal survey Healthcare Business Other (Activity Trackers, etc.) 13% Blood Pressure Monitors 5% Body 6% Sales by Composition 7% Product Governance Monitors 57% 12% Thermometers Nebulizers 50% Share of the Home-Use Blood Pressure Monitors Market (Global) Approx. Source: Internal survey Financial Information Low-frequency therapy equipment Other Businesses Environmental Solutions Backlights PV Inverter LCD Backlights Corporate Information 35% Share of the Residential-Use PV Electric Systems and Micro Devices Inverters Market (Japan) Approx. Equipment MEMS Pressure Sensors Source: Internal survey Uninterruptible Power Supply Units 29 Our Stakeholders As stated in our Sustainability Policy, OMRON cultivates strong relationships with our stakeholders through responsible engagement. We see these relationships as invisible assets important for our sustainable growth. These relationships are also an indispensable part of creating innovation driven by social needs. Here, we discuss some ways in which we engaged with stakeholders during fiscal 2017. Shareholders (General Meeting of Shareholders) We encourage our shareholders to attend the general meeting of shareholders. We hold our meeting at least three business days prior to the date used by the majority of companies in Japan. We send Attendees convocation notices at least four weeks prior to the meeting, ensuring shareholders have sufficient time to study proposals in advance. Feedback ................893 persons from the meeting indicated an overall favorable assessment of our Ratio of Voting Rights Exercised willingness to answer questions and of the positive tone of the meeting. .......................86.0 % Institutional Investors (Interviews, Conferences, Factory Tours, etc.) OMRON engages actively with institutional investors in Japan and across the world through meetings and telephone conferences. During fiscal Meetings 824 2017, we held factory tours in Chicago and Shanghai, mainly for our institutional investors. These tours included presentations about our ............ companies productivity improvements and regional growth strategies, as well as question and answer sessions, helping investors learn more about sustainable growth at OMRON. Investors and Other Stakeholders (ESG Meeting) In December 2017, OMRON held our first-ever ESG information session. The event featured presentations by executive officers discussing how we incorporate the OMRON Principles in our approaches to human capital, manufacturing and risk management. Attendees learned about OMRON in Attendees ways not possible via usual investor relations activities. Some 120 investors attended, as did ESG experts and scholars, students, and media ..................165 people representatives. The event also served as an opportunity to receive direct feedback about expectations of OMRON. 30 Vision Suppliers (Global Partner Conference) Suppliers are important OMRON partners. Every year, we hold the OMRON Global Partner Conference to encourage a shared vision toward creating new value. At the end of the conference, we have a gathering for sharing opinions, which builds a stronger mutual understanding and a Strategy Attendees 128 more effective event. The May 2017 conference covered many important topics, including the OMRON long-term vision, partnership frameworks ..... individuals from 97 for innovative products, and initiatives for sustainability through supply chain management. companies Employees Business (OMRON Principles Missionary Dialogues) Our chairman conducts OMRON Principles Missionary Dialogues as one opportunity to engage with employees. During fiscal 2017, dialogues were No. of Dialogues held in Korea, the Americas, Europe, and Japan. These meetings are an opportunity for employees to discuss real-world examples of solving social 11 times Governance ........................ issues through practice of the OMRON Principles, to address the importance of sustainability, and to interact with the chairman of OMRON in an open and honest setting. These interactions help OMRON continue to build a resilient organization. Financial Information Other Stakeholders (Exhibitions) We exhibit at trade shows and other events to allow customers and other stakeholders the chance to experience our business and technologies firsthand. We exhibited for the first time at the U.S. Consumer Electronics Booth Visitors Show in January 2018. Our table tennis coaching robot, FORPHEUS, was 18,000 + ............ Corporate Information a highlight of the show, demonstrating our latest developments in factory automation and mobility. Many luminaries from a wide range of industries visited our booth, including Tom Soderstrom, Chief Technology & Innovation Officer at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, experiencing the OMRON vision of harmony between human and machine. *Fiscal 2017 results 31 Financial Highlights Gross Profit Margin ROIC EPS Gross profit margin (excluding R&D expenses) 41.6% Selling, general and administrative expenses ratio R&D expenses ratio Operating income margin 12.7% ¥296.9 Earnings per share Dividend payout ratio Cash dividends per share Dividend on equity (%) (%) (Yen) (%) 50 15 300 296.9 40 37.6 283.9 12.7 13.4 31.1 31.6 40 41.6 219.0 215.1 30 38.5 39.3 38.5 39.3 209.8 36.8 37.1 11.3 10 200 10.3 27.0 30 9.7 25.3 25.0 25.6 8.6 137.2 20 23.4 24.7 24.4 24.7 20 23.5 23.5 23.4 Expected cost 5 of capital 100 4.8 74.5 71 68 68 76 8.8 10.2 8.5 10.0 6% 10 10 6.8 7.0 7.5 53 37 28 6.5 6.7 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.9 5.7 3.4 3.2 3.3 1.9 2.4 2.9 3.1 0 0 0 0 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 We set a record high for gross profit Our focus on ROIC management resulted OMRON paid dividends of ¥76 per share, margin, driven by stronger earnings in a 12.7% ROIC, far above our 6% representing a dividend on equity above capacity group-wide. expected cost of capital. our target of approximately 3%. Cash and Cash Equivalents Ratio of Overseas Sales to Total Capital Expenditures Net Sales ¥113.0billion Cash and cash equivalents Total interest-bearing liabilities Overseas total 61.8% ¥38.9billion Japan Capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 150 70 40 38.1 38.9 36.9 126.0 60 33.7 60.3 61.8 31.5 52.2 60.1 58.4 113.0 51.1 29.5 55.4 30 28.3 28.3 28.3 29.0 102.6 50 100 25.1 25.7 90.3 47.8 48.9 82.9 44.6 22.6 22.5 40 41.6 39.9 39.7 38.2 20 55.7 30 50 45.3 20 10 18.8 10 5.6 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 0 0 0 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 We continued to conduct essentially Overseas sales rose sharply as a We followed an aggressive capital debt-free management, as cash balances percentage of total sales, with Greater investment plan to increase production remain in excess of interest-bearing debt. China and Southeast Asia driving the capacity in response to a strong market majority growth. environment. 32 Non-Financial Highlights Ratio of Non-Japanese in Ratio of Women in Managerial Ratio of Employees with Disabilities Vision Managerial Positions Overseas Roles (OMRON Group in Japan) (OMRON Group in Japan) 49% 3.6% Ratio of women in managerial roles (left) No. of women in managerial roles (right) OMRON Group in Japan at OMRON Corporation 2.59% Employees with disabilities Japanese national average (%) (%) (%) 80 8 59 8.0 60 5 53 Strategy 66 4 60 6 45 3.40 3.24 3.33 3.33 49 49 3.14 3.11 3.14 46 36 42 3 42 2.59 30 2.35 2.44 2.41 2.47 40 36 4 27 30 2.24 2.22 3.3 3.6 23 2 2.3 1.92 1.97 1.82 1.88 1.9 1.65 1.69 1.76 1.8 20 2 1.5 15 1 0 0 0 0 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Business (Target) (Target) We are training and promoting local We are increasing the ratio of women in We are striving to create more employment managers in increasing numbers. leadership-level managerial roles in Japan. opportunities and fulfilling work for disabled persons. * Key positions overseas are critical to executing our * Figures represent results as of April 20. * Figures represent results as of June 30 (including special VG2020 long-term vision. Promotions or assignments to subsidiaries). these key positions require the approval of the CEO. * For companies subject to the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Environmental Contribution Net Sales to CO2 Emissions Governance 659 ¥4.22 Energy-Generation Product thousand million / ton-CO2 ton-CO2 Environmental contribution CO2 emissions of production sites (Thousand ton-CO2) (Million yen / ton-CO2) 1,000 5 PV inverters 851 4.12 4.22 3.83 3.94 800 4 Financial Information 3.60 661 659 Energy-Saving Product 3.21 3.21 593 600 3 508 400 2 313 203 215 221 202 202 204 189 193 200 1 0 0 FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Electricity monitors (left) Environment ANDON (right) FY 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Corporate Information We are expanding the environmental contribution of OMRON products and services that * Net sales to CO2 emissions: Net sales per one ton of CO2 emissions reduce the impact on the environment. We also strive to reduce CO2 emissions at our * Since fiscal 2016, OMRON has been using the following production centers through the use of our own energy saving products. For the sixth published figures for the CO2 emissions coefficient consecutive year, our environmental contribution has exceeded the CO2 emissions from associated with electric power: our production centers. Japan: Ministry of the Environment-By Power Company (updated annually); China: National Development and * Environmental Contribution = Volume of CO2 emissions reduction contributed by society’s use of the OMRON Group’s Innovation Committee – By Power Company (updated energy generation and savings products and services. annually); Other: IEA, by country (2011) Calculation method : https://www.omron.com/about/sustainability/environ/contribution/products/ https://www.omron.com/about/sustainability/environ/ reduce/co2/ Indicates independent assurance performed by a third party. P98 * Figures revised retrospectively to reflect an updated Indicates independent verification or review performed by a third party. P98 coefficient for CO2 emissions. 33 11-Year Financial and Non-Financial Highlights OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries (As of and for the years ended March 31) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Operating Results: Net sales ¥762,985 ¥627,190 ¥524,694 ¥617,825 Gross profit 293,342 218,522 184,342 231,702 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excl. R&D expenses) 176,569 164,284 133,426 142,365 R&D expenses 51,520 48,899 37,842 41,300 Operating income 65,253 5,339 13,074 48,037 EBITDA (Note 1) 101,596 38,835 40,088 71,021 Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders 42,383 (29,172) 3,518 26,782 Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities 68,996 31,408 42,759 41,956 Net cash used in investing activities (36,681) (40,628) (18,584) (20,210) Free cash flow (Note 2) 32,315 (9,220) 24,175 21,746 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (34,481) 21,867 (20,358) 3,333 Financial Position: Total assets 617,367 538,280 532,254 562,790 Cash and cash equivalents 40,624 46,631 51,726 74,735 Total interest-bearing liabilities 18,179 52,970 36,612 45,519 Total shareholders’ equity 368,502 298,411 306,327 312,753 Per Share Data: Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (EPS) 185.9 (132.2) 16.0 121.7 Shareholders’ equity 1,662.3 1,355.4 1,391.4 1,421.0 Cash dividends (Note 3) 42 25 17 30 Dividend payout ratio 22.6% – 106.4% 24.7% Financial Indicators: Gross profit margin 38.4% 34.8% 35.1% 37.5% Operating income margin 8.6% 0.9% 2.5% 7.8% EBITDA margin 13.3% 6.2% 7.6% 11.5% Return on invested capital (ROIC) 10.4% (7.6%) 1.0% 7.8% Return on equity (ROE) 11.3% (8.7%) 1.2% 8.7% Ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets 59.7% 55.4% 57.6% 55.6% Total return ratio (Note 4) 74.7% – 106.7% 25.2% Capital expenditures 37,072 36,844 19,524 23,192 Depreciation and amortization 36,343 33,496 27,014 22,984 Ratio of overseas sales 52.1% 49.7% 50.7% 51.4% Non-Financial Data Number of employees 35,426 32,583 36,299 35,684 Ratio of overseas employees to total employees 65.7% 63.4% 68.1% 67.8% Number of patents held (Note 5) 5,717 5,205 5,218 5,452 Environmental contribution (thousand ton-CO2) (Note 6) 193 CO2 emissions of production sites (thousand ton-CO2) (Note 6) 187 Notes: 1. EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization 2. Free cash flow = Net cash provided by operating activities + Net cash used in investing activities 3. Cash dividends per share represent the amounts applicable to the respective year, including dividends to be paid after the end of the fiscal year. 4. Total return ratio = (Total dividends paid + Amount of shares repurchased) / Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (does not include repurchases of less than one trading unit) 5. Patent information is as of March 15 each year. 6. Please refer to P33 Long-Term Management Strategy Grand Design 2010 (GD2010) FY2001 – FY2003 FY2004 – FY2007 FY2008 – FY2010 1st Stage Establish a Profit Structure 2nd Stage Balance Growth and Earnings 3rd Stage A  chieve a Growth Concentrate on cost structure reform and Reinforce business foundations through Structure restructure the Company as a profitaggressive investment in growth areas, Fortify growth businesses generating business including M&A, and cost reduction (high profitability) Achievements Achievements Revival Stage ROE of 10% Increased earnings per share from ¥110.7 (February 2009 to March 2011) Withdrew from unprofitable business, spun off (FY2003) to ¥185.9 (FY2007) Revised 3rd-stage targets due to an Healthcare Business abrupt change in the business environment, implemented cost Raised the level of corporate governance to the reductions, and spun off Automotive global standard Electronic Components Business and Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business 34 (Millions of yen) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Vision ¥619,461 ¥650,461 ¥772,966 ¥847,252 ¥833,604 ¥794,201 ¥859,982 227,887 241,507 297,208 332,607 320,812 311,802 357,685 145,662 152,676 181,225 198,103 205,735 193,539 212,641 42,089 43,488 47,928 47,913 52,790 50,697 59,134 40,136 45,343 68,055 86,591 62,287 67,566 85,910 62,753 67,795 93,144 114,930 93,747 96,532 115,375 16,389 30,203 46,185 62,170 47,290 45,987 63,159 Strategy 31,946 53,058 79,044 77,057 84,207 77,875 73,673 (26,486) (28,471) (31,125) (39,517) (67,116) (15,041) (55,842) 5,460 24,587 47,919 37,540 17,091 62,834 17,831 (33,492) (18,550) (16,298) (29,303) (31,550) (15,012) (33,082) 537,323 573,637 654,704 711,011 683,325 697,701 744,952 45,257 55,708 90,251 102,622 82,910 126,026 113,023 18,774 5,570 488 0 0 156 298 320,840 366,962 430,509 489,769 444,718 469,029 505,530 Business 74.5 137.2 209.8 283.9 219.0 215.1 296.9 1,457.5 1,667.0 1,956.1 2,254.4 2,080.0 2,193.7 2,400.4 28 37 53 71 68 68 76 37.6% 27.0% 25.3% 25.0% 31.1% 31.6% 25.6% 36.8% 37.1% 38.5% 39.3% 38.5% 39.3% 41.6% 6.5% 7.0% 8.8% 10.2% 7.5% 8.5% 10.0% 10.1% 10.4% 12.1% 13.6% 11.2% 12.2% 13.4% 4.8% 8.6% 11.3% 13.4% 9.7% 10.3% 12.7% 5.2% 8.8% 11.6% 13.5% 10.1% 10.1% 13.0% 59.7% 64.0% 65.8% 68.9% 65.1% 67.2% 67.9% Governance 37.7% 27.0% 25.3% 49.1% 62.7% 31.6% 48.2% 28,341 28,285 33,653 38,143 36,859 25,692 38,852 22,617 22,452 25,089 28,339 31,460 28,966 29,465 52.2% 51.1% 55.4% 60.1% 60.3% 58.4% 61.8% 35,992 35,411 36,842 37,572 37,709 36,008 36,193 67.7% 67.4% 69.1% 69.7% 69.3% 68.3% 68.1% 5,959 6,448 6,635 7,194 7,686 8,224 8,774 189 313 661 851 508 593 659 193 203 215 221 202 202 204 Financial Information Operating Income OMRON applies the single step presentation of income under U.S. GAAP (that is, the various levels of income are not presented) in its consolidated statements of income. For comparison with other companies, operating income is presented as gross profit less selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses. Value Generation 2020 (VG2020) FY2011 – FY2013 FY2014 – FY2016 FY2017 – FY2020 GLOBE STAGE EARTH-1 STAGE VG2.0 Corporate Information Establishment of profit and growth Establish self-driven growth Achieve self-driven growth by structures on a global basis structure creating innovation originated by technological evolution Initial Target*1 FY2013 Result Initial Target*2 FY2016 Result Net sales ¥1 trillion Net sales ¥750.0 billion ¥773.0 billion Net sales over ¥900 billion ¥794.2 billion FY2020 Operating Gross profit Gross profit margin over 41% ¥100.0 billion ¥68.1 billion over 40% 39.3% Targets*3 income margin Operating income ¥100 billion Gross profit Operating over 10% 42.0% 38.5% margin over 10% 8.5% ROIC margin ROIC approx. 13% 10.3% ROE over 10% Operating 13.3% 8.8% EPS over ¥300 income margin ROE approx. 13% 10.1% ROE over 15% 11.6% EPS approx. ¥290 ¥215.1 *1 Announced July 2011 *2 Announced April 2014 *3 Announced April 2017 35 Special Feature 1: CTO Interview Creating Innovation Driven by Social Needs Anchored in the Future Kiichiro Miyata Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CTO Over the years, OMRON has introduced numerous world-first innovations driven by social needs, including the non-contact switch, the automated ticket gate, and many others. How has one company been able to come up with innovation after innovation? One key is the backcasting method of technology management practiced in our company beginning with our founder. OMRON established the position of chief technology officer in 2015 in response to the increasingly disruptive changes in society and technology. In our CTO position, we have recreated that technology management as practiced under the keen insight of our founder. In this special feature, we discuss creating innovation driven by social needs with CTO and OMRON technology leader Kiichiro Miyata. — Three years have passed since you were named OMRON CTO. Can you tell us about your thoughts when first named to the position and your experiences to date? OMRON is a leading technology company that IoT, robotics, and other new technologies. The searches for solutions to customer and social environment surrounding our businesses has issues proactively through technology changed dramatically. To respond quickly and development. The result is a unique collection of flexibly, we felt the need for a cross-organizational nearly 90 business units, ranging from several approach, establishing the position of CTO to hundreds of millions of yen in sales to several oversee group-wide technology strategy. billions. In 1999, we adopted an internal company As the first OMRON CTO, I have been structure, with each business division responsible responsible for developing our approach to for its own technology strategy. Under this technology management and formulating an structure, we experienced a significant leap OMRON-wide technology strategy to implement forward in the sophistication of our division over the long term. I believe we have set OMRON technologies. Over the past several years, technology management on a solid course over however, we have seen rapid innovations in AI, the past three years. 36 — The technology management you mentioned is regarded as a subset of general business management. What makes the OMRON style of technology Vision management unique? Technology management at OMRON relies on arising in the interplay among these elements. In technology innovation to perform near-future other words, we create businesses based on design tailored to solving social issues. We then signals from society. outline and execute the strategy required to Under VG2.0, we exercise technology realize this future design. The foundation of our management with a focus on the three areas Strategy approach is the SINIC predictive theory espoused related to science, technology, and society: Open by our founder, Kazuma Tateishi, in 1970. innovation, core technologies (cross-organizational SINIC predicts how the interplay among and business-specific), and business incubation science, technology, and society changes the through trial-and-error. I think our efforts in these future social order and propels further social focus areas have been successful so far. evolution. New developments in science result in new technology. New technology brings about change in society, which give rise to new social Business issues. These issues drive more technological innovation, which impacts science. At OMRON, we work to solve customer and social issues Basis of OMRON Technology Management and Fiscal 2017 Highlights Core Technologies Governance  evelopment of AI controller D Launch of i-BELT platform Development of world’s AI IoT first on-board driver monitoring sensors Seed Technology Innovation Robotics Financial Information Impetus Progress Need -oriented motivation Science Society Open Innovation Business Creation A  lliance with RIKEN Z  ero Event: Eliminating brain (Japan’s largest research and cardiovascular diseases organization for science) DriveKarte: Driver Joint research with universities and management platform based Corporate Information research centers (eg. MIT Media on driver monitoring sensors lab, Stanford university Media X) Traffic Accidents Brain Science Computer Science Life Science Labor Shortages Soaring Medical Cost and congestion 37 — In the three years since being named CTO, you have been able to create an effectively functioning technology management framework. As CTO, what do you see as the next task for OMRON growth? We must speed our pace of creating innovation To support this initiative, we created the driven by social needs if we are to deliver new Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ, or IXI, in March value for a better society. 2018 as a company-wide innovation platform. IXI I mentioned earlier that OMRON is a collection has all the resources it needs to backcast of nearly 90 businesses. We have exercised a innovation driven by social needs, providing enddegree of portfolio management in consolidated to-end oversight of the process. As a platform, IXI some of those entities. Now, we need to create will work with entities both inside and outside our new businesses to take their place and drive organization to raise the output of innovation at continued growth. In other words, management OMRON. at OMRON is concerned with producing new *1 Forecasting: Develop business and technology to solve current value from every corner of our organization, customer issues and needs leading to new products and services that *2 Backcasting: Develop business and technology based on the near-future design for the next three to ten years, become an indispensable part of society. anchored to our future vision of social issues, We are building frameworks and organizations technological innovation and development in science that support new value creation, making the process of innovation driven by social needs part of our organizational knowledge. This process consists of forecasting and backcasting. Traditionally, OMRON has been skilled in identifying social needs and then backcasting to create unprecedented value. Under our company structure, however, we began focusing mainly on forecasting. Now, backcasting will have a comparatively greater weight in our technology management process. OMRON Technology Management Forecasting Backcasting Near-Future Design Close Contact Business Architecture View of the with Future Customers Social Issues Intellectual Business Technology Property Model Technological Breakthroughs Customer Which applications, products, and Issues technologies should we develop now? Advancement of Science Taking the process for creating innovation driven by social needs and turning it into organizational knowledge 38 Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (IXI) as Group-Wide Innovation Platform Vision Innovation Driven by Social Needs Near Future Design Strategy Formulation Business Verification IXI OMRON SINIC X Project Management Business Creation Responsible Corporation Team Team Organization (OSX) Incubation Center Strategy Business Division Identification of Issues Execution OMRON Group Business Members — Many other companies have set up organizations to promote innovation, some more effective than others. Why do you think innovation acceleration initiatives are proving successful at OMRON? Governance For many years now, OMRON has used a process As an example, let’s look at the innovativetemplate for backcasting to create innovation Automation and Zero Event goals we are pursuing driven by social needs. Another big factor is our through our Industrial Automation Business and ingrained corporate culture in which employees Healthcare Business. We have backcast from a take the initiative to do courageous things. near-future vision to start businesses in factory This process template was in the mind of our automation and healthcare domains. We will roll founder, an amazing entrepreneur. He was both this process out across our entire group in the businessperson and engineer, combining both future. Financial Information aspects to identify signs of change in the world The OMRON Principles play a very big role in and develop a super-specific image of the future. our corporate culture, which is one of our major At OMRON, we call this near-future design. We strengths. The OMRON Principles espouses three contribute to a better society by developing important values: (1) Innovation Driven by Social technologies and products necessary to achieve Needs; (2) Challenging Ourselves; and (3) Respect near-future design, incubating businesses that for All. These values have taken hold in our become an indispensable part of society. What we employees. When we challenge them to create will do is take the concept of backcasting nearinnovation driven by social needs, many respond Corporate Information future design for innovation driven by social enthusiastically, without fear of failure. We remain needs, which existed as tacit knowledge in the committed to incorporating ideas from outside our mind of our founder, and convert it into a process organization, and we have embraced open based on explicit knowledge for use across our innovation. organization. > Value Creation Model (P6) > Message from the CEO (P8) 39 — Can you tell us about any specific initiatives for accelerating innovation driven by social needs? As our corporate innovation platform, the personnel hiring and evaluation systems, including Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (IXI) is allowing side businesses and moonlighting, that responsible for backcasting the social needs could only work practically under the structure of process for near-future design, strategy a separate company. I think the freedom with formulation, and business verification IXI is home which OSX researchers work will be a model of to many experts from both inside and outside our work-style reform. organization. We established OMRON SINIC X Another important role of IXI is to be the Corporation (OSX) as a separate company under storehouse of knowledge for OMRON in order to the umbrella of IXI to develop near-future design. speed innovation driven by social needs. To create OSX has brought in many top talents from outside new value, we must double and triple our in the fields of AI, IoT, robotics, and other leadingattempts. I’m sure we will see our share of edge technologies. This company makes the best failures. Each failure is one more point of learning use of its talented staff, while working with we can accumulate to ensure future success. Our research groups inside and outside OMRON, performance evaluations stress process even engaging in open innovation and performing more than results, encouraging employees to try near-future design. To maximize the effectiveness and try again without fear of setbacks. of these activities, OSX provides unique human Process of Creating Innovation by Social Needs Process of Creating Innovation Near Future Design Strategy Formulation Business Verification Target Customers Social Issues Incubation Value Upgrading Prototyping Hypothesis Technological Breakthroughs Means of Implementation Understanding Incubation Advancement of Customer Science Collection Method Retrial Error Process of Accumulating knowledge Rebuilding Hypothesis Cause Analysis Verify all possibilities with different Analyze causes of failure from the perspective of domains/customer bases value, cost, and technology, and retain records 40 Vision Strategy Business OMRON SINIC X Corporation, home to top researchers in AI, IoT, robotics, and other leading-edge technologies. (Photo, from left) Technology Advisor Yoshitaka Ushiku (concurrently working at the University of Tokyo), Technology Consultant Satoshi Kurihara (concurrently working at UEC and Keio University), Researcher Felix von Drigalski (Ph.D., Nara Institute of Science and Technology), and Researcher Atsushi Hashimoto (formerly of Kyoto University) Governance — Last question. What do you think is most important for innovation driven by social needs? Managing our processes effectively and fostering follow-through necessary to lead our business. our people. When we want to launch a new project, we put We have mechanisms and organizations in the idea together with strategic personnel from place. In the future, we need to carefully study the business division in question under the offices Financial Information whether these frameworks are working of the IXI, after which a team is formed consisting effectively. One job of the IXI is to make sure of people from different backgrounds. After information within divisions is identified and participating in and gaining experience in several shared across our entire group. At the same time, projects, these strategic personnel return to their IXI is responsible for communicating information divisions providing even greater contribution. In to entities outside the company on a timely basis. this way, we make full use of our strategic Active internal and external communications in personnel in mechanisms and organizations, this way will help our mechanisms function producing innovation after innovation for social Corporate Information effectively. needs. This process makes sure innovation at Our people, however, are the most important OMRON does not rely on a single person of factor. We have charged IXI with a responsibility genius. Rather, innovation for social needs at for providing a space to develop our strategic OMRON is driven organizationally. personnel. Strategic personnel are those people You can expect more innovation driven by social who will carry OMRON forward, displaying the needs from OMRON in the future. architecture skills, communications skills, and 41 Creating Innovation in Focus Domains Factory Automation Factory automation is a critical element of manufacturing for the vehicles, home appliances, and other products to enrich people’s lives over the world. At OMRON, the Industrial Automation Business is the main segment that drives business in the domain. We follow a unique concept called innovativeAutomation to bring production floor innovations to our customers around the world. We offer manufacturing technologies and solutions backed by an industry-leading lineup of products, solving social issues in the factory automation market. Manufacturing Innovation Solving Production Floor Issues Today’s labor market suffers from a shrinking labor circumstances, expectations are higher than ever for force due to aging and declining populations, soaring solutions via AI, IoT, robotics, and other technological labor costs among emerging economies, and a critical innovations. innovative-Automation, combining our shortage of skilled engineers. At the same time, extensive lineup of automation control devices with production floor processing and assembly tasks are technology innovation, serves as a platform for becoming more sophisticated and complex. working with customers on day-to-day innovations to Maintaining and improving high quality manufacturing solve production floor issues. is now the next issue to solve. Given these Fiscal 2020 Targets and Fiscal 2017 Progress Fiscal 2020 Targets Fiscal 2017 Progress Sales Target Industrial Industrial Net Sales in Domain Automation Business (IAB) ¥480 billion Automation Business (IAB) ¥396.1 billion Sustainability Goals Progress Toward Sustainability Goals New innovative-Automation Evolution in integrated, intelligent, interactive through co-creation with products across manufacturing customers (eg. Launch of four focus industries i-BELT production floor data service) – Control technology for manufacturing innovation – Applicable Industry, innovation SDGs and infrastructure 42 Vision innovative-Automation, Only From OMRON innovative-Automation is a concept combining the future of manufacturing to our customers: emerging production floor needs and the unique integrated (evolution in control), intelligent OMRON value to provide automation solutions. This (intelligence developed through ICT), and interactive concept incorporates three interrelated is to deliver (new harmonization between humans and machines). Intelligence developed through ICT: Strategy Realization of manufacturing Evolution in control: Productivity gains in which machines learn and evolve through ultra-high-speed, ultra-highthrough maximum use of data precision machine controllers We leverage the 200,000 different OMRON control devices, AI, Advanced replication of the skills and expertise of human IoT, and other digital technologies to raise productivity and engineers, allowing for unprecedented high-speed, high-precision quality on the production floor through ongoing evolutions in processing and assembly. Our unique automation technology automation (self-learning machines, etc.). improves manufacturing productivity and product quality. Business ntelligent ntegrated Governance Financial Information nteractive Corporate Information For more about New harmonization between humans and this topic: machine: Pursuit of ultra-high flexibility through human-machine collaboration Our goal is to create an ultra-adaptive production floor in which machines anticipate and assist human movement. 43 Fiscal 2017 Highlights OMRON offers critical control devices for the reader Microscan Systems, Inc. (U.S.), which owns a production floor, from sensors and other input devices significant share of its main market. These to controllers, servo motors, and other output devices, acquisitions provide a solid foundation for the from industrial robots to safety equipment. Our products and applications that serve as the key engineers work closely at customer facilities to components of innovative-Automation. We also built develop control devices that now outnumber any more Automation Centers around the world to expand competitor in our industry. OMRON Automation our control application offerings and support Centers engineers visit customer manufacturing sites customers in solving their production challenges. to conceive and produce unique control applications incorporating a wide range of control devices. In fiscal 2017, we acquired leading industrial camera maker SENTECH Co., Ltd. (Japan) and industrial code SENTECH Acquisition (July 2017) SENTECH is an industrial camera maker boasting an extensive lineup of nearly 200 different cameras featuring technology allowing high-resolution features in small design packages. We are combining the SENTECH ultra-compact high definition camera design and development technologies with our own image processing technologies for innovative factory floor solutions. Microscan Systems Acquisition (October 2017) Microscan develops a variety of code readers, including bar code readers, 2D code readers, and verification devices*. We are working with Microscan to code information for a multitude of objects (components, equipment) on the production floor to provide a flexible manufacturing environment that meets a diverse range of needs. At the same time, this technology will provide greater traceability for resolving frequently occurring quality issue, improving safety and raising confidence. * Verification Devices: Devices that verify whether a printed code meets specifications for quality. 44 Vision Building More Automation Centers to Co-Create With Customers OMRON Automation Centers serve as innovativeStates, China, Spain, and other areas of the world. Automation hubs, engaging in critical co-creation These facilities prove the effectiveness of unique activities with an infinite variety of customers to OMRON control solutions, including significant develop new control technologies. Our centers are leaps forward in the speed of equipment Strategy home to a total 1,100 experts in production and movement, new processing methods, traceability robotics technologies who are also well-versed in systems, and more. actual production floor conditions. These experts * Proof of Concept Labs: Facilities running verification tests on actual equipment. conceive and develop new applications built on a base of more than 200,000 different types of OMRON control devices. Our 17 Automation Centers and PoC Labs* are located in the United Business Governance Italy (Milan) Korea Chicago (Seoul) New Hampshire San Jose Detroit Shanghai Financial Information Spain Japan Cincinnati (Barcelona) (Two bases) (Kusatsu) India (Mumbai) Mexico Thailand Taiwan (Bajio) (Bangkok) Singapore Indonesia (Jakarta) Corporate Information 45 Looking to the Near Future Introducing i-BELT, a Co-Creation Business Model for Innovation World-wide shortages of technical staff have i-BELT consists of three major services: (1) Data presented challenges for maintaining and improving collection and accumulation; (2) Data visibility and productivity and quality. This situation calls for analysis; and (3) Device control. This has been replicating the skills and knowledge of experienced possible by the use of our AI controller, the first of employees through automation, using AI, IoT, robotics, kind in the industry. We have already developed and other technologies. However, many customers partnerships to incorporate devices from other have yet to adopt specific manufacturing productivity manufacturers into the i-BELT system. The Edgecross initiatives based on IoT data, etc., being unable to Consortium is an organization we operate with other develop practical solutions on their own. In answer to companies, aiming to harmonize factory automation this problem, OMRON launched i-BELT as a new and and IT beyond the traditional boundaries of innovative business model in fiscal 2017. i-BELT is a corporations and industries. This organization is one service that uses data based on expertise and skills more piece of the puzzle to building a highly practical from OMRON and customer sources to allow anyone data-usage environment for our customers. the ability to incorporate IoT easily into their manufacturing practices. (2) Visibility, Analysis Data Analytical Accumulation Learning Algorithm (model) AI Controller Data Translation Control Algorithms (1) Data Collection Control (3) Feedback for Device Control Sensing Partner Devices Partner Devices Input Devices and Equipments Output Devices and Equipments 46 An In-Depth Look Vision innovative-Automation Model Factory: Opportunities for Co-Creation Our Automation Centers and local factory staff work together to develop control device solutions in our own plants that we can introduce to our manufacturing customers. We call these plants model factories for innovative-Automation acceleration, publishing the processes and results of our efforts. Each year, more than 2,000 customers visit one of these facilities around the world. Strategy Kusatsu Plant (Exterior) Kusatsu Plant (Interior) Business Case Study 1: Using Data to Automate Artisanship Today’s employment environment struggles with shortages of skilled workers and apprentices. To solve this issue, our Kusatsu Plant has taken up the challenge to replicate and automate the skills and knowledge of experienced Governance engineers. Making metal molds requires a machining center* operated under the experience and intuition of a skilled machinist. This is a key to quality and productivity for a mold manufacturer. In observing a skilled machinist at work, we noticed their careful attention to the differences in sound Highly skilled engineers can detect differences from the piece they were grinding. Accordingly, we went in sound about automating this experience and skill. After much trial-and-error, we developed a proprietary algorithm to convert vibration data into sound. Using changes in sound combined with insight from experts, we were able to incorporate this technology into machine control, reducing processing time by 40 percent and tool wear by 20 percent. Financial Information * Machining Center: Machine tool for processing metal components. Case Study 2: Freeing Workers From Monotonous Labor Through Robotics and Manufacturing Technologies Our plants in Shanghai, Kusatsu, and Ayabe are working to solve the issue of labor shortages by automating lifting and transport tasks using autonomous mobile robots. Mobile robots outfitted with proprietary AI sensing technology can Corporate Information move autonomously through a plant without causing injury to humans or damage to property. We are working with customers to develop mechanics integrating robot, conveyor, and equipment, allowing these robots the ability to handle products of various sizes, shapes, and weights. Adaptive lifting and transport of this type will not only solve Mobile robot with proprietary mechanics labor shortages, but also create an environment in which humans can focus on creating higher value. 47 Healthcare Healthcare Business provides the world with devices and services critical to healthy and active living. Blood pressure management used to be the sole domain of hospitals. Today, OMRON works with healthcare professionals to spread word of home-use digital blood pressure monitors that make measurements easy and accurate. In this way and many more, OMRON will continue to solve social health issues related to cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and pain management, contributing to a better future society. Extending Healthy Life Expectancies and Reducing Health Care Costs The ultimate vision of our cardiovascular disease even worse. Our pain management business is business is Zero Events. Zero Events means dedicated to helping people live healthy, active lives. completely eliminating the incident of brain disease Here, we offer low-frequency therapy equipment and and cardiovascular disease. High blood pressure is a other products to help manage pain without relying major cause of event onset. Human blood pressure is on drugs. Our solutions relieve issues with foot, back, never constant. It fluctuates continuously, rising in and knee pain that tend to hinder everyday activity. response to stress, alcohol consumption, smoking, At OMRON, we are proud of our role in helping sleep apnea, and other conditions. OMRON plays an extend healthy lives, reduce soaring medical costs, important role in preventing high blood pressure, and solve other social health issues through the offering products and services that ensure everyone prevention and treatment of lifestyle diseases. receives the best diagnoses and treatment possible. Our devices collect and analyze data about blood Global Health Issues pressure, sleep time and quality and activity level. We can even track data related to genetics and Brain and Cardiovascular Disease Patients*1 17.5 million environment. Our respiratory disease business, which deals in Respiratory Disease Patients (Worldwide)*2 440 million nebulizers and other products, aids in the early Chronic Pain Patients (Japan, U.S.)*3 73 million detection and treatment of asthma. Much of our work Sources: is in the emerging economies of the world, where a *1 World Health Organization *2 International Respiratory Societies rise in air pollution is making asthma-related spasms *3 Pain in Japan (Japan), National Health Interview Survey (U.S.) Fiscal 2020 Targets and Fiscal 2017 Progress Fiscal 2020 Targets Sales Target Fiscal 2017 Progress Net Sales in Domain Healthcare Business (HCB) ¥150 billion Sustainability Goals Healthcare Business (HCB) ¥108.5 billion • Blood Pressure Monitor Sales: 25 million units/year Progress Toward Sustainability Goals • Develop Technologies to continuously monitor blood pressure fluctuations*4 Adoption of home-use blood pressure • Nebulizer + Asthma Wheeze Monitor monitors and nebulizers in emerging Sales: 7.65 million units/year economies struggling with rising lifestyle and respiratory diseases (India, China, etc.) Applicable Good Health and SDGs Well-Being *4 Target added 48 Vision Eliminating Diseases Related to High Blood Pressure: Zero Events An Evolution in Solving Social Health Issues Zero Events is a major OMRON initiative to completely eliminate deaths, bed Strategy confinement, and other events arising from stroke, myocardial infarction, and high blood pressure. Fiscal 2017 Highlights Business Developing Innovative Devices for Advanced Blood Pressure Tracking Blood pressure is never in a steady state. It fluctuates wristwatch. These monitors let users measure their throughout the day and varies from person to person. own blood pressure comfortably throughout the day Understanding the when and why of these individual to identify fluctuations. These devices also track Governance fluctuations is key to preventing and treating high activity (number of steps, etc.) and sleep data. blood pressure. However, to gain this understanding We are also developing combination blood pressure requires more frequent measurements throughout with electrocardiograph devices that can share data the day. In response, OMRON is developing wearable with personal physicians, revolutionizing personal blood pressure monitors worn constantly like a health care in the near future. Advancements in Financial Information Blood Pressure Monitors Upper Arm Blood Blood Pressure Blood Blood Pressure Pressure Pressure Monitor Monitor with ECG ECG * Under development Advancement Corporate Information Blood Pressure Wrist Blood Wearable Blood Activity Pressure Monitor Pressure Monitor Blood Pressure Sleep * Under development 49 Looking to the Near Future Personalized Healthcare for Zero Events Individualized Diagnosis and Treatment Support Services OMRON is developing sensing devices that collect users reduce salt intake, exercise more, know when and analyze a wide range of health-related data from to go to the hospital, take their medicine, and provide patients. This data includes vital signs, lifestyle data other reminders and support tailored to the individu(exercise, diet), medical and genetic data (personal al’s own characteristics and preferences. and family health history, etc.), and much more. We OMRON is changing the notion of personalized are also developing advanced algorithms that use this medical care through diagnosis and treatment support data to identify the risk of brain and cardiovascular services used by medical professionals and behavior diseases with high precision. We are developing change support services used by individuals for services and applications that use this data to help personal health management. Patient Doctor Wearable Blood Pressure Monitor Blood •B  ehavior Activity Sleep Change Support Pressure • P ersonalized Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Care Blood ECG Pressure Providing Innovative Diagnosis and Device Treatment Support Data Accumulation and Analysis 50 An In-Depth Look Vision Rising Use of Home-Use Blood Pressure Monitors to Battle High Blood Pressure in Emerging Economies More than 1 billion people are believed to Strategy suffer from high blood pressure around the world. In emerging economies, where middle-class populations are exploding, we expect to see a major rise in patients suffering from high blood pressure due to lifestyle diseases. At OMRON, we believe in-home blood pressure management is an important part of prevention and improvement. We have Business been working with governments and medical institutions for many years to speed the adoption of home-use blood pressure Joint press announcement about the World Hypertension Day blood monitors. Under this initiative, we pressure measurement program. cooperated with the International Society of Hypertension and the World Hypertension League in a blood pressure measurement project, conducted in 100 countries in conjunction with World Hypertension Day on May 17, 2017. For our part, we sponsored activities in India, China, and several other countries to educate citizens about measuring blood pressure regularly. In India, we held blood pressure measurement events in 13 cities, taking measurements for more than 1,300 people in total. In China, we Governance worked with the Chinese hyper tension association, the Ruijin Hospital (Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine) and the Shanghai Research Institute of Hypertension, donating 8,720 blood pressure monitors and taking measurements for nearly 490,000 people. Our fiscal 2018 goal is to conduct similar activities across 200 cities, taking blood pressure readings for 1 million people. Expanding Production Capacity for Latin American Financial Information Markets Brazil and other Latin American markets are experiencing a rise in high blood pressure and asthma patients, linked to a growing middle class and lifestyle changes. In response to these circumstances, OMRON acquired Brazilian nebulizer maker NS Indústria de Aparelhos Médicos (NS) in 2014. This acquisition provided access to NS sales channels for our blood pressure monitors and nebulizers. In 2017, we built a new blood pressure monitor production line inside NS, starting production of wrist blood pressure monitors for sale in Brazil. In May 2017, we began construction of a new plant in Brazil to manufacture blood pressure monitors and nebulizers for sale in Latin American markets. We expect the Corporate Information plant to commence operations in 2019. Our aim is to increase production capacity in Brazil from 1.2 million units in 2017 to 5.4 million units in 2022, meeting the growing demand in Latin America for our products. 51 Mobility Our goal in the mobility domain is to create a stress-free, safe, comfortable urban traffic system. The main OMRON businesses tied to mobility are our Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) and our Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB). Under these two segments, we pursue safety, convenience, and free traffic flow through automobile components, traffic and road management systems, and railway station management systems. OMRON will continue building a mobility society in which people around the world can live in a safe, secure, comfortable, and clean environment. Eliminating Driver Error Nearly 80 percent of Japan’s traffic accidents occur Causes of Traffic Accidents (Japan) due to inattention ahead of the vehicle and other similar driver error. Elderly drivers, increasing in Other Inattentive number over the past several years, have been a 18.2% driving major factor in such accidents. The world’s leading auto manufacturers and many Failure to other companies are developing driving safety support check 12.2% 2017 45.2% technologies to address this serious social issue. At safety OMRON, we are combining our expertise in Failure to automotive electronics technologies and road and traffic control to develop technologies used both yield 24.4% inside and outside the vehicle. These technologies will (Source) 2017 Traffic Accidents Situation , Traffic Bureau, National support safer driving and lead ultimately to a more Police Agency secure, safer mobility society. Freeway Traffic Accidents by Cause (First Party) Fiscal 2020 Targets and Fiscal 2017 Progress Fiscal 2020 Targets Fiscal 2017 Progress Sales Targets Net Sales in Domain Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) ¥150 billion Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) ¥131.2 billion Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) ¥80 billion Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) ¥63.7 billion Sustainability Goals • Creation of driving safety support systems/ Progress Toward Sustainability Goals technologies (SSB) • Introduced DriveKarte (ACE, SSB), • Creation of 360-degree around-the-vehicle recognition technology for advanced driver world’s first driver management service assistance/automated driving (AEC) for safe driving using on-board driver • Number of vehicles equipped with ecomonitoring sensors friendly products: 12 million/year • Developed high-precision 3D-LIDAR (ratio of high fuel efficiency products; 50%)* (AEC); self-driving technology Sustainable Cities and • Ratio of high fuel efficiency products in Communities eco-friendly vehicles: 36% (AEC) Applicable Affordable and Clean SDGs Energy Good Health and WellBeing * Target updated 52 Vision Fiscal 2017 Highlights New Products for Driver Safety 3D-LIDAR and DriveKarte are two leading examples of driver support technology under development at Strategy OMRON. 3D-LIDAR is a jump forward in the advancement of self-driving vehicles on public roads. The cameras and millimeter-wave radar used in most forward-detection 3D-LIDAR sensors today have major weaknesses, including performance in bad weather and the detection of certain types of obstacles. 3D-LIDAR, on the other hand, can be used in parallel to detect curbs, dropoffs, and other obstacles as small as 10 centimeters Business and as far away as 30 meters. The DriveKarte is a management service that uses data collected from on-board driver monitoring sensors. We have started sales of DriveKarte to customers in the logistics and other industries struggling with chronic labor shortages. The system detects dangerous driving conditions (sleep, distracted driving, etc.) based on the driver’s eyelids, line of in and out sight, and other attributes. When a dangerous camera Governance condition is detected, the system warns the driver and sends an email to an operations manager. We are GPS antenna developing a score that will be useful in detecting DriveKarte* dangerous driving conditions and providing guidance Accessory socket for safe driving. *Trademark registration pending Looking to the Near Future Financial Information Advanced Driver Information Sensing We have launched a new initiative in safe driving technology: Driver biological information diagnosis. We are integrating our industry-leading biological information sensing technologies (blood pressure, pulse wave) into safe driving systems to manage the physical condition of a driver. We expect this Corporate Information technology will be used in applications to prevent accidents of the type caused by the incapacity of an elderly person behind the wheel. 53 Energy Management Our energy management domain advances the adoption of renewable energy to reduce CO2 emissions and build a society in which people live in comfort. We work with our partners to promote the use of power conditioners and storage battery systems for the benefit of a clean environment. The OMRON Environmental Solutions Business (under corporate headquarters) and Omron Field Engineering Co., Ltd. (maintenance and services subsidiary of Omron Social Solutions Co., Ltd.) are the two entities through which we conduct most of our environmental business. An Expanding Renewable Energy Market While industrial activity has made our modern lives much more convenient, this same activity has given Japan’s Future Energy Structure rise to increasing levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases. Today, we face the risk of major environmental Production Capacity Double Solar Power damage and economic loss. The government of Japan Solar Power Solar Power 7% has set targets to increase the use of energy from 3.3% Renewable renewable sources from 15 percent (fiscal 2015) to 24 Energy Renewable percent by the year 2030. Forecasts estimate the use Energy 22% to 24% 15% of solar power will double, from 3.3 percent to seven Nuclear Energy percent in that same time frame. OMRON is doing 20% to 22% our part to promote renewable energy and reduce Thermal Energy 56% greenhouse gases through power conditioners and 2015 2030 Fiscal storage batteries used in connection with solar power Year (Source) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, isep systems. Fiscal 2020 Targets and Fiscal 2017 Progress Fiscal 2020 Targets Sustainability Goals Fiscal 2017 Progress Progress Toward Sustainability Goals Cumulative shipped capacity of solar power/storage battery systems: 11.2GW Build the energy resource aggregation Cumulative shipped capacity of solar business using solar pv/storage systems power/storage battery systems: 8.0GW (Japan)* Affordable and Clean Applicable Energy SDGs Climate Action * Target added 54 Vision Fiscal 2017 Highlights A New Use Case for Solar Power Systems A new trend in solar power system adoption is taking possible to supply electricity to local governments, Strategy hold. Solar power systems have had challenges which can be used as autonomous power during gaining traction among local governments due to power outages. Where does OMRON come in? We *1 costs and maintenance issues. NTT Smile Energy , supply the power conditioners for these systems, the however, has come up with a novel solution. Rather preferred choice based on our track record in the field. than installing solar power systems in public facilities In this way and many others, OMRON is committed and charging electricity usage fees, the company has to spreading the use of renewable energy, as we introduced a service for local governments to pay rent work with partners to develop new service models. on solar power installations. This service makes it *1 NTT Smile Energy is a joint venture funded by OMRON and NTT Business West Corporation, established in June 2011. Free School Solar Power Installation Project Solar Power Local Government Conditioner Solar Power System Equipment Owner/ Installation Installation Operator Electricity Power NTT Smile Energy Electricity Sales Company Autonomous Rooftop Usage Fees Power Supply Depreciable Asset Tax Construction Equipment Design, Construction, Costs Operation, Maintenance Disaster shelter with Governance Emergency autonomous power Greater rent and tax Contractor revenues Shelter Higher renewable energy adoption Looking to the Near Future Financial Information Building a Power Aggregation Market Using Solar Power and Storage Batteries More companies around the world are embracing the international RE100*2 initiative, adopting renewable Energy Providers energy for the transition to a low-carbon society. Partnership Partnership Demand for renewable energy is rising in Japan, just Partnership as in many regions, requiring aggregation of electricity Resource and effective controls. OMRON is leveraging our Aggregators Corporate Information Control of Bundled Company Company strengths in equipment installation, servicing, and Equipment A B maintenance to create an aggregation business that (Electric Power) Remotely bundles electricity from solar power systems with controls and intelligently networked equipment. Offices, Stores, Factories, Apartment Buildings, Houses, Housing Complexes, Outdoor Equipment *2 RE100 is an international initiative supported by companies Consumers committed to using 100% renewable power. 55 In Support of Innovation Human Resources Management Personal and Organizational Growth, the Driver of Innovative Creation Under VG2.0, our human resources strategy calls for continually. We have set goals for the year 2020 in the creating a strong company where employees grow, five following different areas to accomplish this enjoy their work, and improve performance objective. Progress Toward Human-Resources Related Sustainability Goals Fiscal 2020 Goals/KPIs Fiscal 2017 Progress Evolve and advance P57 Increase in the number of projects the OMRON Global designed to solve social issues Awards (TOGA) P58 Special Feature 2 Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial Talent Attraction and positions overseas: 66% positions overseas: 49% Development Accelerate the PDCA Identified 10 management issues P57 cycle via employee engagement surveys Ratio of women in managerial roles Ratio of women in managerial roles (Japan): 8% (Japan): 3.6% Diversity and Employment of disabled individuals: Ratio of employees with disabilities: Inclusion employ more disabled individuals 2.6% (Japan) than required by law Raise awareness of personal wellness Published the OMRON Health Wellness management, Boost 5 (Japan) Management Declaration Management Health information seminars for employees Working to obtain international Launched projects at six production occupational safety and health centers Occupational Health certifications at major production and Safety centers (representing 80% of production capacity) Define and adopt due diligence Revised policy and structure system Respect for Human process for human rights Rights and Labor Human resources risk analysis and Risk analysis based on Responsible corrective actions at production Business Alliance* self-assessment Practices centers questionnaires: Performed at 16 production centers (Note) Highlights of major goals and performance provided for reference. Please see the OMRON corporate website for more about our sustainability targets and progress. * Global CSR alliance for the electronics industry. 56 Vision Case Study TOGA and Engagement Surveys for Sustainable Growth OMRON seeks leaders who can drive innovation and talented employees to solve social issues through Strategy our businesses. Launched in 2012, the Omron Global Awards (TOGA) is an annual global employeeparticipation awards presentation. TOGA is an important part of how ORMON builds a culture motivated to put the OMRON Principles into practice through their work. In 2016, we introduced the VOICE engagement survey (VG OMRON Interactive Communication with Employees). This voice-interactive survey for employees dealing with social issues encourages frank feedback by which management uncovers and addresses issues in our business. These two initiatives are critical parts of sustainable growth for our people and our organization. T  OGA Evolution and Number of Participants and Topics Business Advancement Participants Topics TOGA is becoming a more important part of (participants) (Topics) our global organization with every year. We 51,093 saw record participation in fiscal 2017 with 50,000 46,885 9,000 more than 50,000 employees. At first, many 38,100 40,000 entries dealt with the employee spirit of 32,751 challenge. Today, we see more initiatives that 6,216 6,000 30,000 address solving social issues. We are also 23,524 5,003 seeing more projects that span national, 20,828 4,173 20,000 regional, and business borders, as well as 3,651 3,000 Governance examples of solving social issues through 10,000 2,481 2,519 innovative partnerships with customers, government institutions and others. 0 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Engagement Surveys to Identify and Address Issues Based on survey results from the prior year, we explored a number of different work styles (teleworking, etc.) and self-development programs in Japan during fiscal 2017. Overseas, we stepped up our talent Financial Information search and human resources training. We discussed our fiscal 2017 results in the Executive Council, identifying five important issues and launching specific programs in response. These issues include decision-making speed and encouraging our younger employees to be more proactive. As an example, we are moving and evaluating human resources development functions traditionally performed in Japan overseas to increase the speed of decision-making at our operations around the world. Our head office in Europe is taking the lead in standardizing processes overseas, aimed at the future global integration of accounting and finance operations. Fiscal 2017 Engagement Survey Overview Survey Targets All 24,000 global employees (excluding manufacturing operators) Corporate Information Response Rate 85% (20,000 responses) No. of Questions 76 Questions/15 Categories Languages Survey published in 26 languages Additional Comments 7,600 (optional feedback from employees to management) Engagement Score* 71 points (+11 points vs. prior year) Group-Wide Management Issues 10 issues identified (five deemed high priority) * Score indicating pride as a member of OMRON, job motivation, and sense of accomplishment 57 Special Feature 2: Putting the OMRON Principles Into Practice TOGA (The OMRON Global Awards) For more about this topic: TOGA is a program for sharing real-world examples of the OMRON Principles in action, fostering a culture motivated to create value. This year, we saw many TOGA entries highlighting innovation driven by social needs. These entries were inspired by creating value for society, creating value through paradigm change, and working effectively with partners inside and outside our organization. 1 Medical Treatment Innovation Offers Unified Patient Administration Case Study Promoting Metabolic Management Centers (China) More than 110 million Chinese suffer from diabetes, many also struggling with kidney, eye, or other diabetesAcross 28 Provinces related complications. Meanwhile, China has only 20,000 or so diabetes specialists to offer care. Many patients 188 Medical Institutions Join MMC must visit several different doctors, wasting precious time and money. In response to this situation, OMRON MEDICAL (Beijing) Co., Ltd. brought together diabetes specialists, pharmaceutical companies, and medical IT companies to launch standardized metabolic management centers, or MMCs, providing proper treatment for diabetes patients. The MMC is a part of a system using big data to combine examination and treatment data from hospitals with measurement data take in the home. This standardized administration platform now allows for uniform treatment for patients in China. Since its founding in 2016, the MMC system has been joined by 188* medical institutions from 28 provinces and districts across China. Presentation by Mr. Zhenjie Li, representing China at the global conference * As of February 2018 Comments from Outside Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Kuniko Nishikawa, Outside Director OMRON TOGA entries consist of initiatives that address real issues, built on a practice of the OMRON Principles. Based on my own past experience, the Metabolic Management Center project must have been an extremely complex venture. Despite the challenges, OMRON provided an amazing solution. This program will tie in to the OMRON blood pressure monitor business and other services, potentially rolling out in other countries struggling with similar issues. The project in Mexico was another example of addressing a real issue. The manufacturing industry is grappling with the issue of declining productivity due to the lack of skilled technicians. I can see how employees who understand both technology and customer production floor operations contribute to business growth. 58 TOGA winners Vision Top Management at TOGA TOGA Presentations Across the World Strategy 2 Respect for All is the Key Case Study Reducing Employee Turnover Through Mutual Respect (Mexico) Omron Automotive Electronics de Mexico S. de R.L.de C.V. (OAX) is located in the state of Guanajuato, home to Fiscal 2017 OAX Turnover the largest concentration of automobile manufacturers in Mexico. Here, employment is expected to grow 46 21% Reduction (Vs. Prior Year) Business percent through the year 2020. This environment has led to competition for employees, creating serious issue of turnover not only for OAX, but also for many other local manufacturers. OAX took the OMRON Principles declaration of Respect for All to heart, starting the OMRON High School (high school education) for the more than 100 OAX factory employees. The company also introduced 35 other projects for the local community. OAX employees felt more pride as part of an Governance organization contributing to the economy, and fiscal 2017 employee turnover fell 21 percent year on year. These initiatives have fostered a culture of mutual respect and encouraged a culture of innovation. These programs have also forged stronger relationships between the company, Presentation by Ms. Krizia Chavira (left) and Ms. Adriana Guzman (right), customers, and the local community. representing the Americas at the global conference Financial Information Hideyo Uchiyama, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) As an outside Audit & Supervisory Board member, I have the opportunity to participate in board of director meeting discussions of OMRON’s medium-term management plan, human resources strategy, and other matters. At the same time, I am deeply interested in whether frontline employees are motivated to achieve these plans and execute strategies. Does every employee have a real awareness and understanding of Corporate Information management goals? Seeing the TOGA presentations and talking with employees, I understand how employees worldwide put the OMRON Principles into practice in the workplace. I see how they apply the principles to their own roles within the organization. I think we can say many employees resonate with the goal of solving social issues within their own set of values, linking achievement of this goal to motivation in their work. Once again, I am convinced that the long-term improvement in OMRON corporate value is supported by the daily work and actions of focused and motivated employees. 59 Manufacturing Supporting Innovation Through Sustainable Manufacturing Practices Without sustainable manufacturing practices, environment. At the same time, we must deliver OMRON could not produce innovations responding to products that customers can use with confidence. In rapid technology breakthroughs and emerging social keeping with this commitment, OMRON is working needs. Sustainable manufacturing requires practices toward our fiscal 2020 sustainability goals. that consider product safety, labor conditions, and the Progress Toward Sustainable Manufacturing Goals Fiscal 2020 Goals/KPIs Fiscal 2017 Progress Ratio of product safety assessments 100% implementation Product Safety and for newly developed products: 100% Quality Upgrade of product safety assessments*1 Sustainability self-checks at major Sustainability self-checks at major Supply Chain suppliers*2: suppliers: 100% implementation; No companies scoring below 65 Management score of 85 points or P60 points better *1 Target added *2 Sustainability Check: Questionnaire sent to suppliers who self-report their initiatives regarding labor, occupational health and safety, environment, and other categories. Companies scoring 85 points or higher are considered a low risk; a score of below 65 is considered a high risk. Conformity with Responsible Business Alliance standards. Case Study Building Sustainability Together With Suppliers As we deal with a more diverse and global group of new suppliers, we recognize the pressing need to bolster sustainability in our supply chain. At OMRON, we work with our suppliers to build a sustainable society, identifying as partner suppliers those whom we judge as outstanding in quality, cost, delivery, environment, and safety. We ask major suppliers to complete a sustainability self-check in accordance with standards established by the Responsible Business Alliance. Besides self-checks for partner suppliers, we have defined minimum sustainability standards for all global suppliers. In fiscal 2017, our joint efforts with suppliers resulted in every partner supplier scoring 65 points or higher on sustainability self-checks. Sustainability Self-Check for Partner Suppliers Implementation ratio: 100% Score of 85 points or higher Partner Conformity with Responsible Business Alliance Standards Suppliers Minimum Sustainability Requirements for All Suppliers Contractual obligations (prohibition against child labor, elimination of anti-social forces, etc.) Systems assessments, certifications related to quality, the environmental Suppliers impact, and regulated chemical substances Self-check for compliance with the OMRON CSR Procurement Guideline Assessment of financial stability 60 Environment Vision Introducing OMRON Carbon Zero*1 We believe that building an environment for a set a fiscal 2020 goal to reduce emissions by four sustainable society is part of improving lives and percent. We are even starting to consider reducing contributing to a better society, as stated in the Scope 3*3 gas emissions in the near future. OMRON OMRON Principles. In support of this ideal, we pursue has announced that it will set its greenhouse gas initiatives under our Green OMRON 2020 emissions reduction target based on scientific Strategy environmental vision. grounds for the SBTi*4. In July 2018, we set new environmental targets We has built a global framework to achieve our under OMRON Carbon Zero, aligned with the recent environmental targets, and we are adopting energy Paris Agreement and the SDGs. Our target is to conservation and renewable energy practices across reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2*2 greenhouse gas our organization. At the same time, we are moving emissions to zero by fiscal 2050. Our interim goal is forward with projects that use the expertise to reduce emissions 32 percent (vs. Fiscal 2016) by developed in our renewable energy businesses in our fiscal 2030. Backcasting from these targets, we have own company. *1 OMRON Carbon Zero: a term used to gain recognition for OMRON’s efforts for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Business *2 Scope 1 and Scope 2: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fuels at our company (Scope 1) and indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the use of electricity and heat purchased by our company (Scope 2). *3 Scope 3: Greenhouse gases emissions from our company’s value chain. *4 SBTi: Science Based Targets Initiative. International initiative recommending science-based mediumand long-term targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  reenhouse Gas Emissions G Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Activities Reduction Targets Target (CO2/kWh) Reduction (%) Energy Conservation and Renewable Fiscal 2016 Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Renewable CO2 Energy Usage Governance CO2 Emission Factor (Reference Year) 2020 2030 2050 0 Energy Reduction Upgrade equipment (high4% Energy efficiency equipment) Reduction Conservation Pursue ongoing energy 25 conservation activities 32% Reduction Adopt renewable energy Energy 50 CO2 Emissions Conservation sources (for self-consumption) Renewable Procure renewable energy Energy 75 Purchase tradable green certificates Financial Information 100 100% Electricity Usage (kWh) Reduction Progress Toward Environmental Sustainability Goals Fiscal 2020 Goals/KPIs Fiscal 2017 Performance Corporate Information Achieve four percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Reduce Greenhouse (vs. fiscal 2016 SBT conformity)*6 Environmental contribution*7 greater Environmental contribution of Gas Emissions*5 than CO2 emissions at production 659k tons of CO2 saved vs. 204k centers tons of CO2 emissions from production centers *5 New goals incorporating sustainability targets for greenhouse gas emissions from the Green OMRON 2020 environmental vision *6 Target added *7 Environmental contribution: CO2 emissions reduced through the use of OMRON energy saving, storage, and generation products and services 61 Risk Management Supporting Global Expansion In 2011, we launched the OMRON VG2020 long-term defined these risks, we then charted their vision. This led to review our existing risk management interrelationships. The risk categories defined consist activities to adopt a new Integrated Risk Management Macro Environment Risk; Natural Disaster Risk; platform. Our new risk management platform reflected Management, Business Strategy, and Financial Risk the thinking of the top management that the faster (including Human Risk and Legal Risk); and Resource pace of change in the operating environment and rising and Infrastructure Risk. levels of uncertainty called for preparation and rapid We use this framework as a link between response to risk. Management felt the need for management and the local workplace, helping OMRON to become more attuned to risk, identifying management work with local staff to deal with and addressing risks at the earliest stages. OMRON Principles-based risk management issue. OMRON faces a variety of risks as we expand across Under our current VG2.0 plan, we take actions related the globe. Accordingly, we have identified and to business risk management that help us respond to categorized the entire spectrum of risks that impact new challenges including creating value through management performance and financial health. Having innovation. Businesses and Risk External Risk Management, Business Strategy, Financial Risk Impact on management performance and financial condition Macro: Economic downturn Macro: Market trends Finance: Ratings downgrade Macro: Economic fluctuations Finance: Yen interest rates up Legal: Anti-bribery Finance: Market volatility Macro: FX rate movements Legal: Anti-trust Quality: Defects, recalls Human capital: Wages up R&D: Patent disputes Human Shortage of R&D: Brand infringement capital: management Environmental law Quality: Environmental rules Regulatory: Labor code Legal: infringement Human R&D: Change in specifications capital: Industrial accident Legal: Information securities Legal: Security trade controls Quality: Initial response failure Supplier CSR Procurement: Price changes Procurement: issues Human Risk Legal Risk IT Natural disaster security: Data breach Procurement: Component shortages IT Contagious disease security: Major data collapse Production: Shipments halt IT security: System failure Production: Production halt Natural Disaster Risk Resource, Infrastructure Risk *Graphic representation of the business risks as shown on https://www.omron.co.jp/ir/keiei/risk.html 62 Vision Integrated Risk Management Structure Integrated risk management at OMRON consists of We formalized this shared framework into a document three main activities: titled, OMRON Group Rules for Integrated Risk 1. Performing an annual global risk analysis to identify Management. This document clarifies the role of risk important risks and formulate responses management. We have appointed risk managers in 2. Forming a crisis response measure when a risk each head office department, each division, each Strategy develops into a crisis regional headquarters, and each group company in 3. Reporting important risk information promptly and Japan and around the world. These risk managers are providing information to relevant parties (risk responsible for coordinating risk management information management) activities at the local office level. Activity Cycle for Integrated Risk Management Corporate Ethics & Risk Management Execute Plan Business Committee Share and report information related Determine risk response plan for the to important risks upcoming year Conduct activities based on the plan Determine budgets for the upcoming year Plan Do Corporate ethics month Board of Directors Analyze Global Risk Annual activity review Headquarters, regional headquarters, divisions Executive Council Report the progress of activities for the Act Check Corporate Ethics & Risk Governance current year Management Committee Report results of global risk analysis Annual activity review Determine important Group risks for Share analysis of risks the upcoming year Select important Group risks (draft) Disclose Results of Activities Financial Information Important Risks and Risk Information Management in the OMRON Group OMRON assigns a rank of “S” to the most critical risks that may endanger business continuity of the OMRON Group Material Risks OMRON Group, or call into questions important (Fiscal 2017) issues of group social responsibility. We assign a rank S Risks: Business continuity, violation of global of “A” to risks that may impede achievement of key laws (bribery, etc.) group goals. Every year, the Corporate Ethics & Risk Corporate Information Management Committee discusses risks, while the Global information/IT security risks, etc. Executive Council assigns categories to these risks. As part of our risk information management system, A Risks: Employee safety, Internal fraud, we monitor the status of important events related to external risks. We check nearly 100 global information occupational health & CSR compliance, sources on a daily basis. As a rule, important risk Group management, etc. information within the group is reported to our head office within 24 hours. 63 Advancing Business through Evolving Group Governance Rules and regulations arising from technological measures to help us reach advanced levels of group innovations such as AI and IoT and concerns on governance. During fiscal 2017, we pursued environment and information securities have sustainability initiatives aiming for the goal in fiscal significant impact on activities of a company. OMRON 2020. takes these change and risk as an opportunity for growth of the group. OMRON pursues certain Progress Toward Sustainability Goals for Risk Management Fiscal 2020 Goals/KPIs Fiscal 2017 Progress Consistent promotion of OMRON Launch of global web-site and *1 Group Rules at all sites P65 system for training and monitoring Fair Business Practice Global training in ethics rules Training offered to 30 thousand employees in 25 languages Consistent promotion of OMRON Launch of global cyber security Information Group Rules at all sites meeting and CSIRT*2 Security, Build a new security system Personal information protection *1 OMRON Group Rules encompass 24 separate topics, including ethical conduct, risk management, unauthorized control , information security, security export control , IT controls, accounting and funding , labor and occupational health, environmental management, procurement, and brand management. *2 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team 64 Vision Case Study Instilling OMRON Group Rules Worldwide We established the OMRON Group Rules (OGR) as a framework to promote efficient and effective risk management, compliance, and other matters of group governance on a global scale. In addition to OMRON Principles as a shared group management policy, the rules provided in OGR will help us Strategy accomplish goals in three areas: Group Management, Business, and Employees. Group Management Appropriate and minimum necessary controls Management transparency, fairness, and global vision Business Appropriate, responsive decision-making based on shared understanding Quick integration of acquisitions, establish companies in emerging economies, and localize company management Employees Raise employee motivation through clear rules, allowing employees Business to focus on their business activities We spent three years to produce OGR. OMRON employees from around the globe participated in the project, ensuring the rules took regional differences in law, societal demands, and culture into consideration. We adopted OGR fully during fiscal 2017, holding training programs, publishing information releases through our global website, monitoring, and performing audits to make the rules an integral part of our organization. We still have work to do, however, to instill OGR group-wide. We will continue to provide communications, training, and standardization across the group to raise awareness of the Governance rules. We also facilitate information exchange among local leaders on a regular basis, promoting ways to incorporate OGR into business processes and daily operations. The New Global OGR Database Financial Information OGR global team members discuss how the rules are being adopted in each location Post-Merger Integration Process Prior to VG2020, we had no standard rules for post-merger integration (PMI). Quickly integrating new businesses into the group was not an easy task. After implementing a PMI program as part of the OGR, we have been able to integrate understanding of the OMRON Principles, management, human resources, sales, facilities, and other matters smoothly, comprehensively, and according to schedule. Corporate Information We used this program in our fiscal 2015 acquisition of Delta Tau Data Systems and Adept Technologies and achieved effective integration process. 65 Message from the Chairman “We are reaching for new levels of corporate governance in pursuit of sustainable growth for OMRON and society.” 66 Vision In 1959, OMRON founder Kazuma Tateishi audit and supervisory board and a company with a formally defined the OMRON corporate motto, “To nominating committee. Each of these committees improve lives and contribute to a better society.” is chaired by an independent director. All of In 1990, OMRON updated this motto under the OMRON’s independent directors are persons with OMRON Principles, revised a third time in 2015. a diverse business background. In 2015, we began As OMRON has grown in scope and geographical evaluating the effectiveness of our board of reach, the role of the OMRON Principles has directors through the Corporate Governance become even more important as a unifying force. Committee, made up of independent directors Strategy Our last revision reflected our strong emphasis on and independent Audit & Supervisory Board innovation driven by social needs. We began members. Also in 2017, we introduced a new operating under the VG2.0 medium-term stock-based compensation system tied to longmanagement plan in 2017. Our goal under this plan term performance. This system serves to motivate is to improve corporate value while solving social inside directors and executive officers by tying issues in domains likely to experience the most in compensation to sustainable improved corporate terms of social needs. value, evaluated based on VG2.0 progress, In the second year of VG2.0, OMRON is corporate value improvement, and third-party Business speeding new initiatives to bolster technology evaluations. management and co-create with our customers. In meeting the new challenge, the role of Having continued to improve corporate corporate governance is to oversee management governance, in 2017, our board of directors in making business decisions to enhance engaged in serious discussions of our progress corporate value. This role is more important than toward VG2.0, as well as the human resources ever. and technology strategies that form the foundation of our business plans. Throughout Governance The OMRON style of corporate governance 2018, we will hold in-depth talks related to reflects our willingness to change as necessary in information systems and product quality moments of growth. We work to build a better management. During 2017 we also began society while striving for sustainable improvement executing sustainability policy finalized by the in corporate value. Along the way, we have board in 2016. The board will monitor the progress introduced new stages of improved structures and of our sustainability efforts, exercising governance management that contribute to our quest to to ensure our initiatives respond to the achieve our ideal as a company. expectations of international society. Financial Information For example, in 2001, we were one of the first companies to adopt independent directors. Today, We will continue to follow the OMRON Principles one-third of our board members are independent. as we strive for corporate value improvements While maintaining our status as a company with through sustainable growth gained by solving an audit and supervisory board, in the year 2000, social issues. We will evolve our system of we established the Personnel Advisory Committee corporate governance, while working toward the (initially the Management Personnel Advisory sustainable growth for OMRON and society. Committee in 1996). Following we established our Corporate Information Compensation Advisory Committee (2003), CEO Selection Advisory Committee (2006), and Corporate Governance Committee (2008). We Fumio Tateishi have created a hybrid governance framework, Chairman combining the best features of a company with an August 2018 67 Corporate Governance Basic Stance for Corporate Governance At the OMRON Group, corporate governance is defined as the system of processes and practices based on the OMRON Principles and the OMRON Management Philosophy. The system is intended to ensure transparency and fairness in business and speed up management decisions and practices. This is done by connecting the entire process from oversight and supervision all the way to business execution in order to boost the OMRON Group’s competitive edge. OMRON’s corporate governance also involves building such a system and maintaining its proper function. The ultimate objective is to achieve sustainable enhancement of corporate value by earning the support of all stakeholders. OMRON Corporate Governance Policies OMRON Corporation established the OMRON ongoing corporate governance improvement as we Corporate Governance Policies*1 based on the Basic develop our own unique vision of governance. Stance for Corporate Governance. Since establishing the Management Personnel Advisory Committee in *1 OMRON Corporate Governance Policies 1996, we have spent more than 20 years formalizing https://www.omron.com/about/governance/organization/ and strengthening our systems of corporate governance. We intend to continue our pursuit of Corporate Governance Initiatives 1999 2003 2011 President 1987: Yoshio Tateishi 2003: Hisao Sakuta 2011: Yoshihito Yamada Chair of the Board 2003: Chairman serves as chair of the Board of Directors; President served as both of Directors / CEO president serves as CEO 1999: Revised articles of incorporation, 2017: Eliminated Separation of setting number of board members to 10 or fewer board titles*2 management oversight 30 directors and business execution 2017: Positioned 1999: Adopted executive officer system president as an executive officer Advisory Board 1999: Advisory Board 2001: One 2003: Two outside directors 2015: Three outside Outside Directors outside (seven directors) directors (eight directors) director Audit & Supervisory 1998: One 2003: Three members 2011: Two members Board Members 1999: Two members member (four auditors) (four auditors) (Independent) 1996: Management Personnel Advisory 2000: Personnel Advisory Committee Committee 2003: Compensation Advisory Committee Advisory and Other Committees 2006: CEO Selection Advisory Committee 2008: Corporate Governance Committee 1959: 1990: Corporate Corporate OMRON 1998: Revised 2006: Revised 2015: Revised Philosophy Motto Principles OMRON Corporate 2015: Established Governance Policies *2 Not including chairman of the Board 68 Corporate Governance Framework Vision OMRON has elected to be a company with an Audit & Advisory Committee, the Compensation Advisory Supervisory Board. Committee, and the Corporate Governance The OMRON board of directors is made up of eight Committee. The Personnel Advisory Committee, the members to ensure substantive discussion and CEO Selection Advisory Committee, and the deliberation about important corporate matters. Compensation Advisory Committee are all chaired by OMRON has separated the management oversight outside directors, with at least half of the committee and business execution functions within the company, members being outside directors. The chair and creating a system whereby the majority of board members of the Corporate Governance Committee Strategy directors are not engaged directly in business are outside directors and outside corporate auditors, operations. We have also adopted a policy setting the which offers yet another layer of transparency and ratio of outside directors to at least one-third of the objectivity onto its decision-making process. total number of directors on the board. In these policies, we have created a hybrid To increase objectivity on behalf of the board of governance framework, combining the best features directors, the titles and roles of chairman of the board of a Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board and and president (CEO) have been separated. The a Company with a Nominating Committee. chairman serves as chair of the board of directors, Outside directors attended the 13 meetings of the without direct corporate representational authority. board of directors held during fiscal 2017 at a rate of OMRON has established several advisory 94.4%. Outside auditors attended at a rate of 100%. committees to enhance the oversight functions of the Outside auditors attended the 13 meetings of the Business board of directors. These committees include the Audit & Supervisory Board at a rate of 100%. Personnel Advisory Committee, the CEO Selection Fiscal 2018 Corporate Governance Structure Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Chair: Chairman of the Board Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Office Board of Directors Office Personnel Advisory Committee Governance Accounting Auditor Sustainability Office CEO Selection Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Committee Executive Organization President & CEO Financial Information Internal Audit Division Executive Council Business Companies Sustainability Committee* Head Office Divisions (Internal Companies) * The Sustainability Committee identifies important issues relating to sustainability in the focus domains, the head office divisions, and various committees (the Corporate Ethics & Risk Management Committee, the Information Disclosure Executive Committee, and the Group Environment Activity Committee) and oversees them on a Group-wide basis. Corporate Information Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Personnel Advisory Committee CEO Selection Advisory Committee Makes decisions related to Oversees corporate governance Sets standards and policies related Deliberates the selection of a chief performance targets and structure and execution business to selecting and hiring directors, executive officer; deliberates strategies; oversees the execution operations; conducts audits of Audit & Supervisory Board succession plans and candidates in of business operations. day-to-day business activities, members, and executive officers; the event of an emergency. including those performed by selects candidates and evaluates directors. performance of current directors and executive officers. Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Committee Executive Council Sets policies for director and Oversees ongoing corporate Deliberates and makes decisions executive officer compensation; governance improvement; regarding important operational evaluates compensation levels and deliberates policies to advance matters within the scope of the deliberates specific compensation management transparency and authority of the president and packages. fairness. CEO. 69 Fiscal 2018 Advisory Committee Members Personnel CEO Selection Compensation Corporate Title Name Advisory Advisory Advisory Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman of the Board Fumio Tateishi Representative Director Yoshihito Yamada Representative Director Kiichiro Miyata Director Koji Nitto Director Satoshi Ando Outside Director Eizo Kobayashi Outside Director Kuniko Nishikawa Outside Director Takehiro Kamigama Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Kiichiro Kondo Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Tokio Kawashima Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Hideyo Uchiyama Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Tadashi Kunihiro Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Committee Member Independent under Tokyo Stock Exchange rules Status of Initiatives Towards Improving Board of Director Effectiveness Overview of Initiatives Towards Improving Board of Direct Effectiveness The company works to improve board effectiveness to ensure sustained enhancement of corporate value. Such initiatives are undertaken in a two-part cycle: (1) Evaluate board effectiveness and (2) Determine and implement policies for the operation of the board of directors based on (1). (1) Evaluate board effectiveness interviews by the chairman of the board of The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible directors, and then conducts an evaluation of the for evaluating board effectiveness. Methods of board’s effectiveness. evaluation are as described below: a) Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (2) Determine and implement policies for the conduct self-evaluations by completing an operation of the board anonymous self-evaluation questionnaire. Based on the evaluation results by the Corporate b) Individual interviews of directors and Audit & Governance Committee in (1), the board of directors Supervisory Board members are also conducted by formulates and determines the policy for the chairman of the board of directors, who asks about operation of the board of directors for the next fiscal improving the effectiveness of the board. year. The board is then operated under this policy. c) The Corporate Governance Committee analyzes the results of the self-evaluations and the Initiatives toward improving board of director effectiveness Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2016 Determination of Execution operating policy Determination of Execution Evaluation operating policy Determine policies Implement Evaluation for operating the measures to Determine policies Implement Analysis and board of directors improve for operating the measures to evaluation of the for the following effectiveness Analysis and board of directors improve board’s fiscal year based on through board of evaluation of the for the following effectiveness effectiveness evaluation results directors meetings board’s fiscal year based on through board of and execution effectiveness evaluation results directors meetings of measures and execution of measures Board of Directors Corporate Governance Board of Directors Committee Implementation Corporate Governance bodies Committee 70 Overview of the Results of Evaluation of Board of Director Effectiveness for Fiscal 2017 Vision Policy for the operation of the board of directors for fiscal 2017 The board of directors exercises its oversight function with particular focus on three areas to ensure achievement of the medium-term management plan VG2.0, which began in fiscal 2017: Progress of short-term management plans Human resources and technology strategies key to medium-term management strategies Initiatives to address materiality, which have been identified based on sustainability policies Strategy Results of the fiscal 2017 evaluation of board effectiveness The Corporate Governance Committee confirmed that the board of directors operated according to the policy for board operations for fiscal 2017 and that the board demonstrated its oversight function. Evaluation results and future issues are as described below: Progress of short-term management plans The board of directors discussed and approved VG2.0 3) Other strategies related to medium-term Business and the company-wide management plan for fiscal management strategies 2017. In addition, the board of directors received The board of directors recognized the need to sufficient reports from executives regarding initiatives exercise its oversight function on strategies related at individual divisions. to information systems and quality to achieve the company’s medium-term management strategies. Human resources and technology strategies key to medium-term management strategies Initiatives to address materiality which have 1) Human resources strategies been identified under sustainability policies The board of directors discussed human resources To ensure the achievement of VG2.0, the board of Governance strategies, a key component of VG2.0. The board directors received reports on fiscal 2020 targets and recognized that human resources strategies were KPIs for material sustainability issues. The board also important to achieve VG2.0 and that the board received reports related to the company-wide should continue to exercise its oversight function. management structure for advancing sustainability and reports on material issues. OMRON began 2) Technology strategies sustainability initiatives in fiscal 2017. The board The board of directors confirmed the companyrecognized the need to exercise its oversight function wide core technology system developed on the on an ongoing basis. SINIC Theory platform. SINIC Theory is OMRON’s Financial Information unique predictive theory encompassing AI, IoT, robotics, and other rapid technological innovations. The Board recognized that technology strategies were important to achieve VG2.0 and that the board should continue to exercise its oversight function. Policy for the operation of the board of directors for fiscal 2018 Based on the results of the fiscal 2017 evaluation of board effectiveness and identified future issues, the board of Corporate Information directors has been charged with exercising its oversight function to ensure the achievement of VG2.0, focusing on three areas in particular: Strategies for information systems and quality with respect to medium-term management strategies Ongoing initiatives for human resources and technology strategies Initiatives to address material sustainability issues (materiality) 71 Board of Directors and Auditors As of June 2018 Takehiro Kamigama Eizo Kobayashi Fumio Tateishi Outside Director Outside Director Chairman Personnel Advisory Committee Member Chairman of the Personnel Advisory CEO Selection Advisory Committee CEO Selection Advisory Committee Committee Member Member Chairman of the CEO Selection Advisory Compensation Advisory Committee Committee Member Chairman of the Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee Committee Member Compensation Advisory Committee Member Kuniko Nishikawa Satoshi Ando Yoshihito Yamada Outside Director Director President and CEO Chairman of the Compensation Advisory Vice Chairman of the Personnel Committee Advisory Committee Vice Chairman of the Corporate Governance Vice Chairman of the CEO Selection Committee Advisory Committee Personnel Advisory Committee Member Vice Chairman of the Compensation CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member Advisory Committee 72 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Information Kiichiro Miyata Kiichiro Kondo Tadashi Kunihiro Director, Senior Managing Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member Executive Officer, CTO Member (Independent) Personnel Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Committee Member Member Corporate Information Koji Nitto Tokio Kawashima Hideyo Uchiyama Director, Senior Managing Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Executive Officer, CFO Member Member (Independent) Compensation Advisory Corporate Governance Committee Member Committee Member 73 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Honorary Chairman As of June 2018 Directors Aug. 1975 Joined OMRON Apr. 1977 Joined The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd. (now Jun. 1997 Director MUFG Bank, Ltd.) Jun. 1999 Managing Executive Officer July 2003 Branch Manager of Jakarta Branch, Jun. 2001 Senior General Manager, Corporate The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Strategic Planning HQ Ltd. (Resigned in June 2007) Jun. 2003 Executive Officer and Executive Jun. 2007 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Vice President; President, Industrial (Independent), OMRON Automation Business Company Jun. 2011 Executive Officer and Senior Jun. 2008 Director and Executive Vice General Manager, Investor Chairman Chairman Director Relations HQ Jun. 2013 Chairman of the Board (to present) Mar. 2015 Senior General Manager, Global Fumio Satoshi Ando Investor Relations & Corporate Tateishi Communications HQ Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2017 Director (to present) Apr. 1972 Joined ITOCHU Corporation Apr. 1984 Joined OMRON Jun. 2000 Executive Officer, ITOCHU Jun. 2008 Executive Officer; Representative Corporation Director and President, OMRON Apr. 2002 Managing Executive Officer, HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. ITOCHU Corporation Mar. 2010 Senior General Manager, Corporate Jun. 2003 Representative Director and Strategic Planning HQ Managing Director, ITOCHU Jun. 2010 Managing Executive Officer Corporation Jun. 2011 Representative Director and Apr. 2004 Representative Director and Senior President and CEO President (to present) Outside Director Managing Director, ITOCHU Corporation Yoshihito Eizo Jun. 2004 President and CEO, ITOCHU Yamada Kobayashi Corporation Apr. 2010 Chairman and Representative Director, ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2011 Chairman, ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2013 Outside Director, OMRON (to present) Jun. 2016 Chairman, ITOCHU Corporation Apr. 2018 Senior Representative, ITOCHU Corporation (to present) Apr. 1985 Joined Tateisi Institute of Life Apr. 1986 Joined Citibank N.A. Science, Inc. (now OMRON Feb. 1996 Joined A.T. Kearney, Inc. HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd.) Sep. 2000 President & CEO, Supernurse Co. Mar. 2010 Representative Director and Ltd. President of OMRON HEALTHCARE Aug. 2010 Established Firststar Healthcare Co. Co., Ltd. (Retired in March 2015) Ltd., President & CEO (to present) Jun. 2010 Executive Officer Jun. 2013 President, Benesse MCM Corp. Jun. 2012 Managing Executive Officer, Jun. 2015 Outside Director, OMRON OMRON (to present) Director Apr. 2015 Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and Outside Director May 2017 Chief Executive Officer, FRONTEO Senior Managing Senior General Manager of Healthcare, Inc. (to present) Technology & Intellectual Property Kuniko Executive Officer, CTO HQ (to present) Nishikawa Apr. 2017 Senior Managing Director Kiichiro (to present) Jun. 2017 Representative Director (to present) Miyata Apr. 2018 Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (to present) Apr. 1983 Joined OMRON Apr. 1981 Joined TDK Corporation Mar. 2011 Senior General Manager, Global Jun. 2002 Corporate Officer, TDK Corporation Resource Management HQ Jun. 2003 Senior Vice President, TDK Jun. 2011 Executive Officer Corporation Mar. 2013 Senior General Manager, Global Jun. 2004 Director & Executive Vice President, SCM and IT Innovation HQ TDK Corporation Apr. 2013 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2006 President & Representative Mar. 2014 Senior General Manager, Global Director, TDK Corporation Strategy HQ (to present) Jun. 2016 Chairman & Representative Director Apr. 2014 Senior Managing Executive Officer Outside Director Director, TDK Corporation Senior Managing (to present) Jun. 2017 Outside Director, OMRON Jun. 2014 Director (to present) Takehiro (to present) Executive Officer, CFO Apr. 2017 Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Kamigama Jun. 2018 Mission Executive, TDK Corporation (to present) (to present) Koji Nitto 74 Vision Audit & Supervisory Board Members Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsui Ocean Development Nov. 1975 Joined Arthur Young & Company & Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 1979 Joined Asahi Accounting Company Jan. 1988 Joined Mitsui Trust and Banking (now KPMG AZSA LLC) Company, Limited (now Sumitomo Mar. 1980 Registered as Certified Public Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited) Accountant Apr. 1999 Joined OMRON July 1999 Representative Partner, KPMG Strategy Mar. 2007 Senior General Manager, Public AZSA LLC Solutions Business Department, May 2002 Board Member, KPMG AZSA LLC Social Systems Solutions and Jun. 2006 Executive Board Member, KPMG Audit & Supervisory Service Business Company Audit & Supervisory AZSA LLC Board Member Jun. 2007 Executive Officer Board Member Jun. 2010 Managing Partner, KPMG AZSA Apr. 2011 President and CEO, OMRON Social (Independent) LLC, Chairman, KPMG Japan Kiichiro Solutions Co., Ltd. Sep. 2011 Chairman, KPMG Asia Pacific Kondo Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer Hideyo Oct. 2013 CEO, KPMG Japan Jun. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Uchiyama Sep. 2015 Executive Advisor, ASAHI Tax Member (to present) Corporation (to present) Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent), OMRON (to present) Business Apr. 1982 Joined Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. (now Apr. 1986 Registered as attorney with the MUFG Bank, Ltd.) Daini Tokyo Bar Association; Joined Sep. 2008 Regional Head for Germany and Nasu & Iguchi Law Office General Manager of Dusseldorf Jan. 1994 Established Kunihiro Law Office Branch, The Bank of Tokyo(now T. Kunihiro & Co. Attorneys-atMitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Law) Apr. 2011 Joined OMRON Jun. 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Governance Jun. 2011 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent), OMRON (to present) (to present) Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member (Independent) Tokio Kawashima Tadashi Kunihiro Honorary Chairman Financial Information Apr. 1963 Joined OMRON May 1973 Director Jun. 1976 Managing Director Jun. 1983 Senior Managing Director Jun. 1987 President and CEO Jun. 2003 Representative Director and Chairman of the Board May 2007 Chairman, Kyoto Chamber of Commerce and Industry (to present) Honorary Chairman Jun. 2011 Honorary Chairman (to present) Yoshio Tateishi Corporate Information 75 Executive Officers President Yoshihito Yamada CEO Executive Vice President Yutaka Miyanaga Company President, Industrial Automation Company Senior Managing Executive Officers Kiichiro Miyata Koji Nitto CTO and Senior General Manager, CFO and Senior General Manager, Technology & Intellectual Property HQ Global Strategy HQ and Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ Managing Executive Officers Katsuhiro Wada Isao Ogino President and CEO, President and CEO, OMRON AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS OMRON HEALTHCARE CO., LTD. CO., LTD. Shizuto Yukumoto Kiyoshi Yoshikawa Company President, Senior General Manager, Electronic and Mechanical Components Global Manufacturing Innovation HQ Company, and Senior General Manager, Business Development HQ Toshio Hosoi Nigel Blakeway President and CEO, Chairman and CEO, OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF AMERICA, INC. and Chairman, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF EUROPE and Chairman, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC 76 Vision Executive Officers Goshi Oba Tsutomu Igaki Chairman and President, Senior General Manager, OMRON INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION Global Investor & Brand (CHINA) CO., LTD. Communications HQ Strategy Takayoshi Oue Jian Xu Senior General Manager, China Manufacturing Innovation Project Global Finance and Accounting HQ Executive, Global Manufacturing Innovation HQ, and President and CEO, SHANGHAI OMRON CONTROL COMPONENTS CO., LTD. Seigo Kinugawa Junta Tsujinaga Business Senior General Manager, Senior General Manager, Strategy Planning Division HQ, and Product Business Division HQ, Senior General Manager, Industrial Automation Company Robotics Business Development Project, Industrial Automation Company Takashi Kitagawa Kenji Eda Senior General Manager, Senior General Manager, Board of Directors Office New Business Development Global Governance Center, and Senior General Manager, Global Human Resources HQ, OMRON HEALTHCARE CO., LTD. Masahiko Tomita Shinji Fukui Senior General Manager, Senior General Manager, Global Human Resources and Technology Development Division HQ, Administration HQ Industrial Automation Company Munenori Odake Masako Kubo Financial Information Senior General Manager, President and CEO, Sales & Marketing Division HQ, OMRON EXPERTLINK CO., LTD. Industrial Automation Company Shuji Tamaki Seiji Takeda Senior General Manager, General Manager, Global Risk Management and Legal HQ Corporate Planning Dept., Global Strategy HQ Corporate Information Makoto Ota Taisuke Tateishi President and CEO, Senior General Manager, OMRON RELAY & DEVICES Corporation, Environmental Solutions Business HQ and Senior General Manager, Production Division HQ, Electronic and Mechanical Components Company 77 Financial Section (U.S. GAAP) At a Glance Industrial Automation Business (IAB) NetNet Sales / Operating / Operating Sales Income Income / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome Margin Margin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net SalesOperating Net Sales Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating Income Income MarginMargin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 500 500 18.7%18.7% 19.2%19.2%20 20 25 25 16.5% 16.5% 428.0428.0 21.0 21.0 15.7% 15.7%396.1396.1 400 400 14.3%14.3% 20 20 18.2 18.2 13.3% 13.3% 16.4 16.4 331.8331.8 336.0336.0 331.0331.0 15.7 15.7 15.3 15.3 300 300 291.7291.7 15 15 10 10 200 200 10 10 9.3 9.3 5.3 5.3 4.5 4.5 100 100 74.0 74.0 82.0 82.0 5 5 3.6 3.6 4.2 4.2 38.8 38.8 54.6 54.6 47.9 47.9 52.0 52.0 5.2 5.2 3.5 3.5 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.2 3.3 3.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 (Forecast) (Forecast) Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) NetNet SalesSales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome Margin Margin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Income IncomeOperating Operating Operating Margin Income Income Margin axis)axis) (right(right CapitalCapital Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation Expenditures and Amortization R&D Expenses and AmortizationR&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 120 120 15 15 12 12 10.9 10.9 103.9103.9 103.7103.7 102.8102.8 102.0102.0 10.0 10.0 97.7 97.7 9.5 9.5 93.9 93.9 10 10 8.9 8.9 90 90 11.8%11.8% 12.3% 12.3% 7.8 7.8 7.9 7.9 7.7 7.7 10 10 8 8 9.8%9.8% 10.0%10.0% 8.0 8.0 8.3 8.3 8.9%8.9% 60 60 8.2%8.2% 6 6 6.5 6.5 6.0 6.0 5.4 5.4 5 5 4 4 4.9 4.9 4.6 4.6 5.3 5.3 30 30 12.1 12.1 12.5 12.5 2 2 8.7 8.7 10.2 10.2 8.5 8.5 9.4 9.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 (Forecast) (Forecast) Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) NetNet SalesSales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome Margin Margin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Income IncomeOperating Operating Operating Margin Income Income Margin axis)axis) (right(right CapitalCapital Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation Expenditures and Amortization R&D Expenses and AmortizationR&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 150 150 140.0140.0 10 10 12 12 137.9137.9 10.5 10.5 132.1132.1 131.2131.2 128.0128.0 126.6126.6 10 10 9.3 9.3 9.2 9.2 120 120 8.2 8.2 8.5 8.5 7.2%7.2% 8 8 90 90 6.7 6.7 6.5 6.5 6.9 6.9 6.7%6.7% 5.8 5.8 5.2%5.2% 5.4%5.4% 4.7%4.7% 5 5 6 6 5.2 5.2 60 60 4.4%4.4% 5.3 5.3 4.9 4.9 5.2 5.2 4 4 4.7 4.7 30 30 3.4 3.4 2 2 9.1 9.1 9.2 9.2 7.3 7.3 7.1 7.1 5.8 5.8 6.0 6.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 (Forecast) (Forecast) Financial Section 80 | Financial Results | Fiscal 2017 in Review Contents 85 | Outlook for Fiscal 2018 87 | Consolidated Balance Sheets 88 | Consolidated Statements of Income 78 * OMRON revised business classifications in fiscal 2017, reclassifying certain operations from the Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business to the Other Businesses segment. Fiscal 2018 Electronic and Mechanical Components Business figures include certain operations of the Other business classification as previously classified in fiscal 2017 and earlier. Vision * Fiscal 2018 forecasts are unchanged from forecasts announced April 26, 2018. Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) NetNet Sales Sales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Margin Capital Expenditures Capital Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization / R&D / R&D Amortization Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating Income Income Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) 80 80 10 10 2.5 2.5 67.6 67.6 70.4 70.4 67.0 67.0 2.5 2.5 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.1 2.1 66.4 66.4 61.9 61.9 63.7 63.7 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.8 60 60 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 Strategy 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.6 6.7%6.7% 6.5%6.5% 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 6.0%6.0% 1.5 1.5 40 40 5.7%5.7% 5 5 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.3 4.6%4.6% 1.0 1.0 1.2 1.2 3.6%3.6% 20 20 0.5 0.5 3.9 3.9 3.1 3.1 2.5 2.5 3.7 3.7 4.1 4.1 4.5 4.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 (Forecast) (Forecast) Healthcare Business (HCB) Business NetNet Sales Sales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Margin Capital Expenditures Capital Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization / R&D / R&D Amortization Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating Income Income Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 119.0119.0 120 120 12 12 8 8 108.1108.1 108.5108.5 100.6100.6 101.3101.3 6.7 6.7 10.3% 10.3% 10.5% 10.5% 6.1 6.1 6.2 6.2 89.3 89.3 90 90 6 6 5.5 5.5 5.2 5.2 8.4%8.4% 8.5%8.5% 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.8 3.8 60 60 6.5%6.5% 6.7%6.7% 6 6 4 4 3.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.0 3.0 Governance 2 2 2.8 2.8 30 30 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.2 7.5 7.5 8.5 8.5 11.2 11.2 12.5 12.5 6.5 6.5 7.3 7.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 (Forecast) (Forecast) Other Businesses NetNet Sales Sales / Operating / Operating Income Income (Loss) (Loss) / Operating / Operating Income Margin Income Margin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization / R&D / R&D Amortization Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating Income Income (Loss) (Loss)Operating Operating Income Margin Income Margin axis)axis) (right(right CapitalCapital ExpendituresDepreciation Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) Financial Information 120 120 12 12 8 8 101.4101.4 6.9 6.9 94.1 94.1 11.0% 11.0% 10.2%10.2% 90 90 6 6 5.3 5.3 70.2 70.2 68.5 68.5 4.3 4.3 5.5 5.5 60 60 54.8 54.8 50.5 50.5 6 6 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.7 4 4 4.6 4.6 4.0 4.0 30 30 3.1 3.1 1.7 1.7 2 2 2.5 2.5 10.3 10.3 10.3 10.3 0.9 0.9 2.0 2.0 0 0 1.4 1.4 0 0 0 0 FY FY (3.5) (3.5) (1.9) (1.9) (2.1) (2.1) 0.8 0.8 0 0 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 FY FY 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 Corporate Information (Forecast) (Forecast) 189 | Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For more information, please refer to the Company’s audited annual financial report: 190 | Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity https://www.omron.com/about/annual/index.html 191 | Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 79 Financial Results Fiscal 2017 in Review Consolidated Earnings Fiscal 2017 was our first year operating under VG2.0. Fiscal 2017 results were significantly higher compared We defined our basic policy for the year as Start up to the prior fiscal year. Net sales rose 8.3% to ¥860.0 VG2.0: A Firm First Step Toward Innovation. During the billion, while operating income was up 27.1% at ¥85.9 year, we took on three key initiatives: (1) Group growth billion and operating income margin rose 1.5 points to driven by focus domains (Industrial Automation 10.0%. Net income attributable to OMRON Business, Healthcare Business); (2) Profit creation shareholders amounted to ¥63.2 billion, an increase of through improved group-wide earnings; and (3) 37.3%. Stronger investment in growth fields and technologies. Consolidated Statement of Income Net Sales of closer coordination among our production, sales, The OMRON Group set a record high for net sales in development, and planning groups. Selling, general and fiscal 2017, driven by strong performance in our core administrative expenses amounted to ¥212.6 billion, a Industrial Automation Business and Healthcare ¥19.1 billion (9.9%) increase, mainly in connection with Business. Overseas sales were largely responsible for stronger revenue performance. Research and group earnings, amounting to ¥531.5 billion, ¥67.7 development expenses rose ¥8.4 billion (16.6%) to billion (14.6%) higher than the prior fiscal year. Our ¥59.1 billion for the year. operations in Greater China and Southeast Asia delivered particularly significant growth. We recorded Operating Income, Income before Income Taxes and ¥328.5 billion in sales in Japan, a slight decrease of Equity in Earnings of Affiliates, and Net Income 0.6% year on year. Attributable to OMRON Shareholders Gross Profit Margin, SG&A Expenses, and R&D OMRON Group operating income for the year was Expenses ¥85.9 billion (27.1% increase), while our operating income margin was 10.0% (1.5-point increase). Income Gross profit margin for fiscal 2017 was 41.6%, a before income taxes (excluding other income) 2.3-point increase compared to the prior fiscal year and amounted to ¥83.4 billion (27.3% increase), while net an all-time high for the OMRON Group. This income attributable to OMRON shareholders came in improvement was mainly due to a stronger earnings at ¥63.2 billion (37.3% increase). structure that drove gross profit margin higher, a result Consolidated Operating Income Analysis (YoY) Added-value up (Billions of yen) +34.9 Fixed manufacturing cost up SG & A up 85.9 Forex impact -1.4 -14.3 +7.2 R & D up 67.6 -8.1 Gross profit +33.5 FY2016 Actual FY2017 Actual 80 Vision Review of Operations by Business Segment Industrial Automation Business (IAB) Our Industrial Automation Business recorded domestic political situation and gradual economic recovery in net sales of ¥152.0 billion for fiscal 2017, an increase of Europe, accompanied by strong machinery exports, led 13.8% year on year. This result was mainly due to to greater demand, particularly in the food industry. higher investment demand in the global automobile and Greater China and Asia experienced increases in both digital markets, as well as our own progress in our pace and scale of investment in the digital industries Strategy ability to propose solutions to our customers. Overseas (semiconductors and smartphones) throughout the net sales rose 23.7% to ¥244.2 billion, reflecting year. In total, the IAB segment recorded net sales of positive developments across the world. The Americas ¥396.1 billion (19.7% increase). An extensive product experienced strong investments in semiconductorlineup and improved skills in selling solutions led to a related markets and firm investment demand in sharp rise in operating income, up 42.3% to ¥74.0 billion. automobile markets. Meanwhile, a more settled (Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net sales 291.7 331.8 336.0 331.0 396.1 428.0 Japan 119.4 126.7 130.5 133.5 152.0 163.0 Business Overseas 172.3 205.1 205.5 197.5 244.2 265.0 Americas 36.9 47.6 40.4 30.3 35.3 38.0 Europe 61.9 67.8 69.3 65.6 77.7 83.5 Greater China 43.8 55.0 58.3 59.6 77.7 85.5 Asia Pacific 28.9 34.1 36.9 41.3 53.1 57.5 Direct exports 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.5 Operating income 38.8 54.6 47.9 52.0 74.0 82.0 Operating income margin 13.3% 16.5% 14.3% 15.7% 18.7% 19.2% R&D expenses 15.7 15.3 18.2 16.4 21.0 Depreciation and amortization 3.6 3.5 4.0 4.2 5.2 Capital expenditures 3.3 4.2 5.3 4.5 9.3 Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) Governance Our Electronic and Mechanical Components Business by higher incomes and improving living standards in recorded domestic net sales of ¥22.8 billion for fiscal inland regions, which led to higher demand in the 2017, up 1.4% year on year. This increase was mainly high-function appliances market. Last, sales rose in due to an increase in inquiries from the automotive Asia, owing to higher demand for motorcycles and an industry and strong sales of new vehicles among our increasing number of our products being used in home customers. Overseas net sales rose 12.0% to 80.1 appliances. Total fiscal 2017 net sales for the EMC Financial Information billion due to several factors. Performance was strong segment rose 9.5% to ¥102.8 billion, while operating in the Americas and Europe, as we captured demand income amounted to ¥12.1 billion, up 28.7%, due in for consumer and commercial products in this growing part to higher revenues and internal sales to the market. Sales were strong in Greater China, supported Industrial Automation Business. (Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net sales 97.7 103.9 103.7 93.9 102.8 102.0 Japan 28.1 23.9 23.2 22.5 22.8 21.0 Overseas 69.6 80.0 80.5 71.4 80.1 81.0 Americas 16.6 18.1 19.9 16.3 17.5 17.5 14.7 15.9 16.1 14.8 16.9 17.5 Corporate Information Europe Greater China 28.7 35.0 33.6 29.0 31.0 32.0 Asia Pacific 8.7 10.1 10.4 11.3 14.5 14.0 Direct exports 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.0 Operating income 8.7 10.2 8.5 9.4 12.1 12.5 Operating income margin 8.9% 9.8% 8.2% 10.0% 11.8% 12.3% R&D expenses 6.0 5.4 4.9 4.6 5.3 Depreciation and amortization 7.8 8.0 8.3 7.9 7.7 Capital expenditures 10.9 9.5 8.9 6.5 10.0 *We revised business classifications and presentation beginning fiscal 2018, reclassifying certain operations under Other Businesses to the EMC segment. 81 Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) The Automotive Electronic Components Business experienced strong performance in Asia, by contrast, recorded domestic net sales of 17.3 billion, down 9.0% due to solid automotive production in India and rising for the year. This decrease was mainly due to model sales of motorcycles in Indonesia. In total, the AEC changes resulting in the termination of several models segment recorded net sales of ¥131.2 billion, nearly using OMRON products. Overseas net sales were up a level with the prior year at a 0.7% decrease. Operating slight 0.7% to ¥113.9 billion due to combination of income was 18.4% lower at ¥5.8 billion for the year. offsetting factors. Demand was lower in the Americas This decrease was mainly due to higher research and due to declining auto production and model changes development expenses committed to next-generation resulting in fewer models using OMRON products. We products. (Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net sales 126.6 137.9 140.0 132.1 131.2 128.0 Japan 28.4 25.9 21.1 19.0 17.3 16.0 Overseas 98.2 112.0 118.9 113.1 113.9 112.0 Americas 33.3 39.3 47.6 43.9 41.9 38.5 Europe 3.3 3.6 4.6 3.9 2.8 2.0 Greater China 25.4 29.9 27.4 28.0 28.6 27.5 Asia Pacific 29.2 32.2 31.9 30.1 33.3 37.5 Direct exports 7.2 7.1 7.3 7.2 7.3 6.5 Operating income 9.1 9.2 7.3 7.1 5.8 6.0 Operating income margin 7.2% 6.7% 5.2% 5.4% 4.4% 4.7% R&D expenses 8.2 8.5 9.3 9.2 10.5 Depreciation and amortization 3.4 4.7 5.3 4.9 5.2 Capital expenditures 6.7 6.5 6.9 5.2 5.8 Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) Sales in the Social Systems, Solutions and Service weakness in replacement demand for road traffic Business grew 3.0% for the year to ¥63.7 billion. terminals. Segment operating income rose 11.6% to Demands for upgrades in our Public Transportation ¥4.1 billion, resulting from revenue growth and stronger Business were flat. However, our Traffic and Road earnings capacity achieved by moving design and Management Systems Business experienced strong production in-house. demand for management systems upgrades, despite (Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net sales 67.6 66.4 70.4 61.9 63.7 67.0 Japan 67.3 65.1 68.6 61.3 62.8 66.5 Overseas 0.3 1.3 1.8 0.6 0.9 0.5 Americas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Greater China 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.5 Asia Pacific 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Direct exports 0.1 1.1 1.2 0.3 0.6 0.0 Operating income 3.9 3.1 2.5 3.7 4.1 4.5 Operating income margin 5.7% 4.6% 3.6% 6.0% 6.5% 6.7% R&D expenses 2.5 2.1 2.2 1.8 2.1 Depreciation and amortization 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.4 1.3 Capital expenditures 1.5 1.7 1.5 1.4 1.6 *We revised business classifications and presentation in fiscal 2017, reclassifying certain operations under the SSB segment to the Other Businesses segment. 82 Vision Healthcare Business (HCB) Our Healthcare Business recorded domestic net sales Europe saw firm sales of blood pressure monitors in of ¥26.0 billion, down 10.0%. While sales of blood Russia, while our businesses in Greater China reported pressure monitors and low-frequency therapy higher sales of blood pressure monitors and nebulizers equipment were strong in response to stepped up through online channels. Sales of blood pressure online promotions, sales from professional-use monitors in Indonesia and elsewhere in Asia were products were lower due to the transfer of shares of strong, mainly due to an expansion in our store Omron Colin Co., Ltd. In December 2016. Overseas net network. As a result, the HCB segment recorded a total Strategy sales were up a healthy 13.9% year on year, reaching of ¥108.5 billion in net sales for fiscal 2017, up 7.1%. ¥82.5 billion. Sales of blood pressure monitors and Higher sales and productivity improvements combined nebulizers in the Americas were strong, mainly due to for a sharp rise in segment operating income, up 31.4% promotional activity in online sales channels in the U.S. to ¥11.2 billion for the year. and an expansion of our store network. Our business in (Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net sales 89.3 100.6 108.1 101.3 108.5 119.0 Japan 30.8 31.4 31.1 28.9 26.0 28.5 Overseas 58.5 69.2 77.0 72.4 82.5 90.5 14.3 18.6 23.1 21.7 23.8 24.5 Business Americas Europe 21.0 21.2 19.2 18.3 21.0 22.0 Greater China 17.3 22.4 25.4 23.1 26.8 30.5 Asia Pacific 5.5 6.6 8.9 9.0 10.3 13.0 Direct exports 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.5 Operating income 7.5 6.5 7.3 8.5 11.2 12.5 Operating income margin 8.5% 6.5% 6.7% 8.4% 10.3% 10.5% R&D expenses 5.2 5.5 6.1 6.2 6.7 Depreciation and amortization 2.3 3.3 3.8 3.3 3.0 Capital expenditures 3.9 3.9 2.8 2.2 3.2 Governance Other Businesses The Other Businesses segment recorded ¥54.8 billion experienced strong demand for uninterruptible power in net sales for fiscal 2017, down 20.0% year on year. supply units and contract services for the development Despite ongoing structural reforms, lower sales and and production of electronic devices. Accordingly, sales other factors combined to produce an operating loss of in this business increased for the year. Micro Devices ¥2.1 billion. Despite the positive impact of expanding Business sales were higher, mainly due to a temporary our lineup of storage battery products, sluggish demand rise in demand for smartphone microphones. Finally, for PV inverters used in solar panels drove down sales sales in our Backlights Business fell year on year by a in our Environmental Solutions Business. In contrast, wide margin, largely due to further business Financial Information our Electronic Systems and Equipment Business optimization initiatives. (Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Forecast) Net sales 94.1 101.4 70.2 68.5 54.8 50.5 Japan 66.2 59.8 51.2 60.2 44.8 43.5 Overseas 27.9 41.6 19.0 8.3 10.0 7.0 Americas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Greater China 25.6 38.2 17.1 7.3 8.5 6.5 Asia Pacific 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Corporate Information Direct exports 2.3 3.4 1.9 1.0 1.5 0.5 Operating income (loss) 10.3 10.3 (3.5) (1.9) (2.1) 0.0 Operating income margin 11.0% 10.2% — — — — R&D expenses 4.3 5.5 4.6 3.7 3.7 Depreciation and amortization 2.0 2.5 3.1 1.7 0.8 Capital expenditures 4.0 6.9 5.3 1.4 0.9 *We revised business classifications and presentation in fiscal 2017, reclassifying certain operations under the SSB segment to the Other Businesses segment. *We revised business classifications and presentation beginning fiscal 2018, reclassifying certain operations under Other Businesses to the EMC segment. 83 Review of Financial Condition Total assets at the end of fiscal 2017 amounted to OMRON shareholders. Net income attributable to ¥745.0 billion, an increase of ¥47.3 billion compared to OMRON shareholders and other factors led to an the end of the prior fiscal year. This increase stems increase in retained earnings of ¥45.0 billion. As a mainly from an increase in inventories, machinery and result, shareholders’ equity amounted to ¥505.5 billion equipment, and other capital assets. (year-on-year increase of ¥36.5 billion), while Total liabilities increased ¥10.6 billion to ¥237.6 billion. shareholders’ equity ratio increased 0.7 points to Current liabilities amounted to ¥182.8 billion, ¥10.7 67.9%. While total liabilities and shareholders’ equity billion higher due mainly to increases in accounts were higher year on year, our debt-equity ratio payable. remained nearly level at 0.47, a 0.01-point decrease. Net assets increased ¥36.6 billion to ¥507.4 billion, owing mainly to higher net income attributable to Capital Expenditures The OMRON Group made ¥38.9 billion in total capital in a deliberate yet active approach to capital investments during fiscal 2017, representing a 51.2% investment, committing resources for future OMRON increase compared to the prior fiscal year. We engaged Group growth. Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents as of the end of fiscal 2017 mainly due to capital expenditures and business amounted to ¥113.0 billion, a decrease of ¥13.0 billion acquisitions. As a result, free cash flow (total of net compared to the end of the prior fiscal year. Net cash cash provided by operating activities and net cash used provided by operating activities amounted to ¥73.7 in investing activities) amounted to ¥17.8 billion, a billion. This was a ¥4.2 billion decrease compared to the decrease of ¥45.0 billion versus the prior fiscal year. prior fiscal year, reflecting net income of ¥63.5 billion Net cash used in financing activities amounted to ¥33.1 (¥17.2 billion increase) and ¥29.5 billion in depreciation billion, an increase of ¥18.1 billion, partly due to ¥15.4 and amortization (¥500 million increase). Net cash used billion in dividend payments (¥800 million increase year in investing activities amounted to ¥55.8 billion. This on year). was an increase of ¥40.8 billion in net cash outlays, Dividend Policy Our policy for profit distribution is to prioritize equity ratio for profit distributions for fiscal years 2017 investment in R&D necessary for ongoing corporate through 2020 covered by our medium-term value improvement, capital expenditures, and M&A. At management plan, VG2.0. As guided by this policy, we the same, we strive for stable, consistent returns for paid ¥76 per share in dividends for fiscal 2017. This our shareholders. The OMRON Group established a resulted in a dividend on equity ratio of 3.3%. guideline of 30% in payout ratio and 3% of dividend on 84 Outlook for Fiscal 2018 Vision Consolidated Earnings While the fiscal 2018 economic environment for certain profit growth, pursuing a policy under the banner of regions is difficult to predict with clarity, we expect the Creating Change: Accelerate growth and transform global economy to continue to demonstrate strength profit structure through innovation. As with fiscal 2017, overall. Looking to the OMRON Group’s major markets, we will continue to bolster our earnings ability, we expect strong demand in Japan as capital investing profits in our Industrial Automation Business, investment expands in the automobile and digital Healthcare Business, and core technologies. We will Strategy industries. Overseas, we forecast an economic create innovations that keep the growth cycle on an recovery in the U.S. spurred by major tax cuts and upward path, accelerating OMRON Group growth. other policies, while capital investment and production Our fiscal 2018 plan calls for net sales of ¥900 billion increases in Europe should lead to a gradual recovery (4.7% increase) versus fiscal 2017, operating income of in that region. The rate of growth in China will likely ¥93.0 billion (8.3% increase), and net income slow down. However, demand for our products and attributable to OMRON shareholders of ¥64.5 billion services should be strong in response to manufacturing (2.1% increase). Our target for gross profit margin, an labor shortages and the resulting needs for automation. indicator of earnings ability, will be 42.5%, representing In Asia, the economies of Thailand, India, and Indonesia a 0.9-point increase compared to the prior fiscal year. Business should continue to recover throughout the year. Finally, we will dedicate organization-wide efforts to We will respond to these conditions in fiscal 2018, reaching the important ROIC and ROE targets for the our second year under VG2.0, striving for revenue and year, which we have set at approximately 12%. Industrial Automation Business (IAB) We expect the IAB to benefit from strong demand for traceability, which is rising in response to greater labor-savings and automation globally. In particular, we awareness of product quality. Based on our projections, Governance forecast higher demand for capital investment in the our fiscal 2018 net sales plan calls for ¥428.0 billion in digital (rising needs for IoT) and automotive (investment IAB sales, representing an 8% increase compared to in automated driving technologies, eco-friendly fiscal 2017. While we will continue to invest in future vehicles) industries. We plan to leverage the industrial growth, we expect rising revenues and other factors to code reader and industrial camera businesses we drive operating income 10.8% higher year on year, acquired in fiscal 2017 to capture global demand for reaching ¥82.0 billion for fiscal 2018. Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) Financial Information We forecast a significant decline in EMC sales in Japan, equipment and home appliances are also likely to impacted by level demand in the automobile-related expand in Asia. Based on these projections, we industries and contracting demand in the amusement forecast ¥102.0 billion in EMC net sales, which will be a industry. Overseas, we expect to see strong demand in decrease of 2.3% year on year. Given our expectations the consumer markets of the Americas and Europe. In for higher overseas sales and internal sales, we Greater China, demand in the high-function home forecast EMC operating income of 12.5 billion, appliance market should continue to grow, while essentially level at 0.2% above fiscal 2017 results. government environmental policies are likely to drive * Comparisons to fiscal 2017 figures are calculated on revised business classifications for fiscal 2017 actuals (¥104.4 billion in net sales, ¥12.5 billion in growth in markets for water heaters and home Corporate Information operating income). furnaces. The markets for semiconductor inspection 85 Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) Our forecast for AEC sales in Japan calls for lower fiscal bolster our performance. Given these assumptions and 2018 sales versus fiscal 2017, mainly due to projected the likely negative impact of foreign exchange, we decreases in Japanese automobile production volume. expect AEC sales to underperform fiscal 2017. Overseas, expectations are for level year-on-year auto Accordingly, our forecast for AEC fiscal 2018 net sales production in the Americas and North America. is ¥128.0 billion (2.4% decrease). In contrast, we However, vehicle model changes will result in the forecast productivity improvements and other factors termination of models using OMRON products, driving to generate a 3.2% rise in operating income, reaching sales down compared to fiscal 2017. We forecast higher ¥6.0 billion. sales in Asia, where strong auto production should Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) In the SSB segment, we project higher Public firm demand resulting from ongoing needs for security Transportation Business sales, mainly due to firm and safety. Given these assumptions, we forecast SSB replacement demand. Our Traffic and Road fiscal 2018 net sales of ¥67.0 billion (5.2% increase) and Management Systems Business should likewise see operating income of ¥4.5 billion (9.5% increase). Healthcare Business (HCB) We forecast higher fiscal 2018 net sales in the HCB increase in interest in health, while the emerging segment. An increase in individuals suffering from economies of the world, particularly in Asia, should see lifestyle diseases associated with Japan’s aging society, higher demand for health-related products. Based on as well as greater overall interest in health, should drive these projections, we forecast HCB fiscal 2018 net firm demand, mainly via online channels. Overseas, sales of ¥119.0 billion (9.7% increase) and operating economic growth should spur lifestyle changes and an income of ¥12.5 billion (11.5% increase). Other Businesses We forecast higher fiscal 2018 sales in our lead use to forecast Other Businesses segment net Environmental Solutions Business, driven by growth in sales of ¥50.5 billion (0.9% year-on-year decrease). We the storage battery market and recovery in the solar expect to break even in terms of operating income. power market. Electric Systems and Equipment * Comparisons to fiscal 2017 figures are calculated on revised business classifications for fiscal 2017 actuals (¥51.0 billion in net sales, ¥500.0 million in Business sales should likewise grow, benefiting from operating loss). the expansion of our uninterruptible power supply line. Our Backlights Business, on the other hand, is likely to see largely decreasing sales due to the effects of business optimization. The combination of these factors 86 Consolidated Balance Sheets OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries March 31, 2017 and 2018 Vision (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) ASSETS FY2016 FY2017 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY FY2016 FY2017 Current Assets: Current Liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 126,026 ¥ 113,023 Notes and accounts payable trade ¥ 89,362 ¥ 93,792 Notes and accounts receivable trade 169,210 174,065 Accrued expenses 39,354 44,291 Allowance for doubtful receivables (1,320) (1,117) Income taxes payable 6,994 6,414 Inventories 109,404 129,581 Other current liabilities 36,371 38,281 Strategy Deferred income taxes 19,123 — Total Current Liabilities 172,081 182,778 Other current assets 13,461 21,833 Total Current Assets 435,904 437,385 Deferred Income Taxes 763 706 Termination and Retirement Benefits 43,708 42,342 Other Long-Term Liabilities 10,392 11,740 Property, Plant and Equipment: Total Liabilities 226,944 237,566 Land 25,550 24,886 141,527 145,389 Business Buildings Shareholders’ Equity: Machinery and equipment 189,286 205,233 Capital 64,100 64,100 Construction in progress 6,104 10,063 Common stock Total 362,467 385,571 Authorized: 487,000,000 shares in FY2017 Accumulated depreciation (234,852) (250,468) 487,000,000 shares in FY2016 Net Property, Plant and Equipment 127,615 135,103 Issued: 213,958,172 shares in FY2017 213,958,172 shares in FY2016 Capital surplus 99,138 99,588 Governance Investments and Other Assets: Legal reserve 17,813 19,940 Goodwill 30,385 38,705 Retained earnings 346,000 390,950 Investments in and advances to affiliates 25,303 27,195 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (57,363) (49,359) Investment securities 27,006 29,016 Treasury stock (659) (19,689) Leasehold deposits 6,907 7,531 3,352,916 shares in FY2017 Deferred income taxes 21,101 39,947 152,836 shares in FY2016 Other assets 23,480 30,070 Total Shareholders' Equity 469,029 505,530 Total Investments and Other Assets 134,182 172,464 Financial Information Noncontrolling Interests 1,728 1,856 Total Net Assets 470,757 507,386 Total ¥ 697,701 ¥ 744,952 Total ¥697,701 ¥ 744,952 Corporate Information 87 Consolidated Statements of Income OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (Millions of yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Net Sales ¥ 833,604 ¥ 794,201 ¥ 859,982 Costs and Expenses: Cost of sales 512,792 482,399 502,297 Selling, general and administrative expenses 205,735 193,539 212,641 Research and development expenses 52,790 50,697 59,134 Other expenses (income), net (3,399) 2,074 2,543 Total 767,918 728,709 776,615 Income before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Affiliates 65,686 65,492 83,367 Income Taxes 20,043 19,882 21,615 Equity in Earnings of Affiliates (2,039) (712) (1,754) Net Income 47,682 46,322 63,506 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 392 335 347 Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders ¥ 47,290 ¥ 45,987 ¥ 63,159 (Yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Per Share Data: Net income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders: Basic ¥ 218.95 ¥ 215.09 ¥ 296.85 Diluted 218.95 215.09 — 88 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Vision Years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (Millions of yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Net Income ¥ 47,682 ¥ 46,322 ¥ 63,506 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax: Foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments arising during the year (23,916) (9,003) 3,153 Strategy Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income — (7) — Net unrealized gain (loss) (23,916) (9,010) 3,153 Pension liability adjustments: Pension liability adjustments arising during the year (29,525) 4,908 451 Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income 1,486 3,046 2,335 Net unrealized gain (loss) (28,039) 7,954 2,786 Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year (5,776) 1,164 3,695 Business Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income (4,818) (7,283) (2,034) Net unrealized gain (loss) (10,594) (6,119) 1,661 Net gains (losses) on derivative instruments: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year 658 983 (514) Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income (946) (1,109) 920 Net unrealized gain (loss) (288) (126) 406 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (62,837) (7,301) 8,006 Governance Comprehensive Income (Loss) (15,155) 39,021 71,512 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 248 193 349 Comprehensive Income (Loss) Attributable to OMRON Shareholders ¥ (15,403) ¥ 38,828 ¥ 71,163 Financial Information Corporate Information 89 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (Millions of yen) Accumulated Number of Total Common Capital Legal Retained other Treasury Noncontrolling Total net common shareholders' stock surplus reserve earnings comprehensive stock interests assets shares issued equity income (loss) Balance, March 31, 2015 217,397,872 ¥ 64,100 ¥ 99,070 ¥ 13,403 ¥ 301,174 ¥ 12,489 ¥ (467) ¥ 489,769 ¥ 2,325 ¥ 492,094 Net income 47,290 47,290 392 47,682 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥68 per (14,656) (14,656) (14,656) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (256) (256) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests — (1) (1) and other Transfer to legal reserve 1,791 (1,791) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) (62,693) (62,693) (144) (62,837) Acquisition of treasury stock (15,023) (15,023) (15,023) Sale of treasury stock 0 0 0 0 Retirement of treasury stock (3,439,700) (14,846) 14,846 — — Issuance of stock acquisition rights 31 31 31 Balance, March 31, 2016 213,958,172 64,100 99,101 15,194 317,171 (50,204) (644) 444,718 2,316 447,034 Net income 45,987 45,987 335 46,322 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥68 per (14,539) (14,539) (14,539) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (297) (297) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests 14 14 (484) (470) and other Transfer to legal reserve 2,619 (2,619) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) (7,159) (7,159) (142) (7,301) Acquisition of treasury stock (16) (16) (16) Sale of treasury stock (0) 1 1 1 Issuance of stock acquisition rights 23 23 23 Balance, March 31, 2017 213,958,172 64,100 99,138 17,813 346,000 (57,363) (659) 469,029 1,728 470,757 Net income 63,159 63,159 347 63,506 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥76 per (16,083) (16,083) (16,083) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (215) (215) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests 6 1 7 (6) 1 and other Share-based compensation 444 444 444 Transfer to legal reserve 2,127 (2,127) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) 8,004 8,004 2 8,006 Acquisition of treasury stock (19,030) (19,030) (19,030) Balance, March 31, 2018 213,958,172 ¥64,100 ¥99,588 ¥19,940 ¥390,950 ¥(49,359) ¥(19,689) ¥505,530 ¥1,856 ¥507,386 90 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Vision Years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (Millions of yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Operating Activities: Net income ¥47,682 ¥46,322 ¥63,506 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 31,460 28,966 29,465 Strategy Net loss (gain) on sale and disposals of property, plant, (485) 705 949 and equipment Impairment losses on long-lived assets 463 12,998 911 Net gain on sale of investment securities (1,499) (3,764) (3,003) Impairment losses on investment securities 68 558 155 Gain on contribution of securities to retirement benefit trust (4,140) (7,004) — Termination and retirement benefits 698 2,863 2,706 Deferred income taxes 2,283 11 (2,607) Equity in earnings of affiliates (2,039) (712) (1,754) — (3,686) 14 Business Loss (gain) on sales of business Changes in assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable trade 9,436 (8,923) (3,210) Decrease (increase) in inventories 6,061 (7,112) (17,409) Decrease (increase) in other assets 1,003 2,604 (6,113) Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable trade (7,189) 8,384 4,116 Increase (decrease) in income taxes payable 3,433 852 (614) Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other current liabilities (4,614) 5,097 6,276 Other, net 1,586 (284) 285 Governance Total adjustments 36,525 31,553 10,167 Net cash provided by operating activities 84,207 77,875 73,673 Investing Activities: Proceeds from sale or maturities of investment securities 2,214 4,606 3,776 Purchase of investment securities (330) (3,274) (649) Capital expenditures (37,903) (25,816) (38,542) Decrease (increase) in leasehold deposits, net 115 (145) (634) Proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 2,239 2,278 990 Decrease (increase) in investment in and loans to affiliates (20) 30 — Financial Information Proceeds from sale of business, net of cash paid — 7,187 (427) Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (33,448) — (20,445) Other, net 17 93 89 Net cash used in investing activities (67,116) (15,041) (55,842) Financing Activities: Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term debt 2 155 951 Dividends paid by the Company (16,077) (14,539) (15,378) Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests (256) (297) (215) Payments for equity transactions with noncontrolling interests — (470) — Corporate Information Acquisition of treasury stock (15,023) (16) (18,530) Other, net (196) 155 90 Net cash used in financing activities (31,550) (15,012) (33,082) Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (5,253) (4,706) 2,248 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (19,712) 43,116 (13,003) Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year 102,622 82,910 126,026 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year ¥82,910 ¥126,026 ¥113,023 91 Corporate Information As of March 31, 2018 Established  Major Manufacturing & Development, Sales & Marketing, May 10, 1933 and Research & Development Centers in Japan Incorporated  Manufacturing & Subsidiaries and Affiliates May 19, 1948 Development OMRON Automotive Electronics Co., Ltd. Capital  Kusatsu Office OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. ¥64,100 million Okayama Office OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. Number of Employees Ayabe Office OMRON RELAY & DEVICES Co., Ltd. (Consolidated)  Yasu Office OMRON SWITCH & DEVICES Co., Ltd. 36,193 OMRON AMUSEMENT CO., Ltd Common Stock  Research & Development OMRON FIELD ENGINEERING Co., Ltd. Issued Keihanna Technology OMRON SOFTWARE Co., Ltd. 213,958 thousand shares Innovation Center OMRON ASO Co., Ltd. Trading Unit OMRON Nohgata Co., Ltd. 100 shares Sales & Marketing OMRON EXPERTLINK Co., Ltd.* Number of Shareholders Tokyo Office * Established in April 2018 38,615 Osaka Office Stock Listings  Nagoya Office Tokyo Stock Exchange, Mishima Office Frankfurt Stock Exchange Securities Code  6645 Fiscal Year-End  March 31 Overseas Headquarters Annual Shareholders’ Meeting  June North America Greater China Custodian of Register of OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT Shareholders  CENTER OF AMERICA CENTER OF CHINA Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and (Illinois) (Shanghai) Banking Corporation Brazil Asia Pacific Depositary and Transfer OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT Agent for American CENTER OF BRAZIL CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC Depositary Receipts  (São Paulo) (Singapore) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Europe India Head Office  OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT Shiokoji Horikawa, CENTER OF EUROPE CENTER OF INDIA Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto (The Netherlands) (Haryana) 600-8530, Japan Korea Tel : +81-75-344-7000 OMRON MANAGEMENT Fax: +81-75-344-7001 CENTER OF KOREA (Seoul) 92 Stock Information Vision Total Shareholder Return (TSR*1) Tokyo Stock Exchange TSR (Annualized rate) (Index) Daily Trading Volume Holding Period 3 years 5 years 10 years 400 OMRON OMRON 6% 24% 13% TOPIX TOPIX 6% 13% 5% 350 TOPIX Electric Appliances TOPIX Electric Appliances 7% 18% 6% 300 (1,000 Shares) 2,000 250 1,600 200 Strategy 1,200 150 100 800 50 400 0 0 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 † Share index (2008/3E = 100) † Stock price and trading volume information is for the 1st section of the Osaka Securities Exchange before July 16, 2013, and for the 1st section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange thereafter. † TSR holding period indexed to March 2018 *1 TSR: Total investment return, combining capital gains and dividends Business 52-Week High / Low, Volatility*2 Dividends per Share / Payout Ratio FY High (¥) Low (¥) Volatility (%) FY Dividends per Share (¥) Payout Ratio (%) 2017 7,670 4,385 27.1 2017 76 25.6 2016 5,120 3,045 32.5 2016 68 31.6 2015 5,900 2,742 40.0 2015 68 31.1 2014 5,800 3,365 30.9 2014 71 25.0 Governance 2013 4,730 2,213 39.7 2013 53 25.3 2012 2,478 1,436 29.9 2012 37 *3 27.0 2011 2,357 1,381 36.5 2011 28 37.6 2010 2,418 1,749 34.7 2010 30 24.7 2009 2,215 1,132 35.9 2009 17 106.4 2008 2,385 940 52.4 2008 25 — *2 Volatility: Price fluctuation risk expressed in standard deviations *3 Including ¥5.0 per share of 80th anniversary memorial dividend Financial Information Ownership and Distribution of Shares Shareholder Distribution by Number of Shares Held (Trading unit: 100 shares) % 100 1,000 to less than 5,000 14.4% 12.4% 13.0% 100 to less than1,000 0.3% More than 80 10 to less 1.4% 5,000 than 100 0.2% 45.2% 47.5% 47.9% 14.1% 60 Corporate Information 40 Individuals and 38,615 5.8% 5.7% 5.7% Shareholders others 0.9% 1.1% 1.0% Foreign investors Other 20 corporations 33.7% 33.3% 32.4% Financial instruments dealers Financial Less than 10 0 institutions 2015 2016 2017 (FYE) 84.0% 93 The Year in Review Fiscal 2017 was the first year of the OMRON VG2.0 medium-term management plan. It was an eventful year in which we accelerated growth investments, including the acquisition of an industrial camera manufacturer and an industrial code reader manufacturer. We also set up a new technology development center to drive dramatic technological growth. Year Highlights September 2017 April 2017 OMRON selected as component of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) July 2017 Industrial camera maker Sentech https://www.omron.com/media/press/ acquired Scope defined for fiscal 2017 2017/09/c0911.html (Finalized July 2017) stock repurchase https://www.omron.com/media/press/ https://www.omron.com/about/ir/ 2017/04/c0427.html irlib/news/pdfs/20170727e.pdf August 2017 Acquired U.S. industrial code reader Microscan June 2017 Systems (finalized October 2017) RIKEN BSI-OMRON Collaboration https://www.omron.com/media/ Center established; venture between press/2017/08/c0830.html OMRON and RIKEN https://www.omron.com/media/press/ 2017/06/c0601.html 2017 April—May June July August September October October 2017 April 2017 August 2017 Developed 3D-LIDAR for self-driving vehicle use on Developed AI Machine Automation Announced i-BELT service public roads Controller featuring machine-learning AI using production floor data https://www.omron.com/ algorithm media/press/2017/10/c1024.html https://www.omron.com/media/press/ 2017/04/c0425.html September 2017 July 2017 Introduced NC Integrated Controller for Launched production of in-home dramatic improvement in processing electronic blood pressure monitors equipment productivity in Brazil https://www.omron.com/media/press/2017/09/c0926.html Developed world’s first on-board driver monitoring sensor https://www.omron.com/media/press/ 2017/09/c0927.html Product Highlights 94 Industrial Automation Electronic and Mechanical Automotive Electronic Vision Business (IAB) Components Business (EMC) Components Business (AEC) Social Systems, Solutions and Healthcare Business (HCB) Other Businesses Service Business (SSB) March 2018 New Diversity Management Selection 100 and Nadeshiko Brand Designation Strategy October 2017 https://www.omron.com/media/press/ 2018/03/c0328.html Opened automation center in Singapore https://www.omron.com/media/ press/2017/10/c1006.html April 2018 Established OMRON SINIC X Corporation https://www.omron.com/media/press/2018/04/c0425.html Business November 2017 Issued secondary offering of stock Named 2017 Top 100 Global Innovator https://www.omron.com/about/ir/ https://www.omron.com/media/press/2018/04/c0410.html irlib/news/pdfs/20171128e.pdf 2018 November December January February March April April 2018 Governance Introduced USB November 2017 February 2018 environmental sensor; obtained environmental Introduced four series Upgraded features of information for seven types of of conditioning monitoring OMRON connect environmental data, including devices to provide visual blood pressure acceleration and VOC gases representation of equipment monitoring app Financial Information status https://www.omron.com/media/ press/2017/11/c1120.html December 2017 February 2018 Announced DriveKarte monitoring service for Announced sales of KPV driver safety Series outdoor-use Corporate Information computers 95 OMRON Recognitions OMRON Innovations Recognized Selected as Top 100 Received fiscal 2017 Commissioner’s Global Innovator Award/Intellectual Property Achievement Awards OMRON was selected for a second consecutive year as a OMRON HEALTHCARE Top 100 Global Innovator, an Co., Ltd. received the award recognizing the best Commissioner’s Award of 100 innovative companies the Intellectual Property and research institutes. Achievement Awards for fiscal 2017. Coverage in ESG Indexes Recognizing our commitment to sustainability, OMRON is a constituent member of several major ESG indexes. We are honored to have been included for the eighth consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) Asia/Pacific Index and for the first year in the DJSI World Index. We have also been included for the third consecutive year in the MSCI ESG Leaders Index and for the second consecutive year in the FTSE4Good Index Series. THE INCLUSION OF OMRON Corporation IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF OMRON Corporation BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. With the commencement of ESG investing by the Japan Government Pension Investment Fund, OMRON was selected as a component member of three ESG indexes in July 2017 for the second consecutive year. Recognized for Contributions to Sustainability New Diversity Management Selection Designated Certified Health and 100 and Nadeshiko Brand Designation Productivity Management Organization (White 500) OMRON was recognized for our engagement in human OMRON Corporation and OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., resources strategy under VG2.0. Ltd. were recognized for a second consecutive year under the Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500) program. 96 Recognition for Communications Vision Integrated Report 2017 OMRON has been honored with the Award for Excellence in each of the first four years, sponsored by the World Intellectual Capital Initiative Japan. This year, OMRON was awarded the Grand Prize for Excellence in Integrated Reporting for the first time. The latest edition of the Nikkei Annual Report Awards, sponsored by Nikkei Inc. (publisher of the Nihon Keizai Shimbun), recognized OMRON as the Grand Prix winner. The 33rd Corporate Communications Awards Strategy For the second time since 1990, OMRON received the Award for Excellence in Corporate Communications from the Keizai Koho Center. Fifth Web Grand Prix Corporate B to B Site Award OMRON’s EDGE & LINK website was awarded the Corporate B to B Website Award in the Corporate Grand Prix division of the Fifth Annual Web Grand Prix, sponsored by the Web Advertising Bureau of the Japan Advertisers Association. Business *See below for more about EDGE & LINK. OMRON Corporate Websites OMRON publishes a wide range of information through our corporate websites. We have also produced numerous videos online that tell the story of our future in a much more dynamic way. Governance Medium-Term Management Plan Investor Relations Information Sustainability Information Website Financial Information https://www.omron.com/about/ir/ https://www.omron.com/about/ https://www.omron.com/ sustainability/ vg2020/ Corporate Information EDGE & LINK Corporate Overview Video EDGE & LINK is a website that discusses OMRON We invite you to watch the OMRON corporate overview technologies and initiatives for improving lives and video to learn more about how our technologies are contributing to better societies through our businesses. changing society for the better. 97 Independent Practitioner’s Assurances To enhance the reliability of the information presented in Integrated Report 2018, the following information associated with social and environmental performance provided herein has been reviewed by independent third parties*. * Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. Data subject to independent assurance Data subject to independent verification  atio of non-Japanese in managerial R Net sales to CO2 emissions (P33) positions overseas (P33) Ratio of women in managerial roles (OMRON Group in Japan) (P33) Data subject to independent review Ratio of employees with disabilities (OMRON Environmental contribution (P33) Group in Japan) (P33) 98 From the Editor-In-Chief Integrated Report 2018 marks the driven by social needs that are the very seventh integrated report published source of our value creation. We have by the OMRON Group. We believe also gone to great lengths to show how this report represents an important sustainability initiatives are tied to the opportunity to deepen engagement with efforts of OMRON business segments to our stakeholders. Accordingly, we have create innovation, and how the functional endeavored to make this report a logical divisions and departments supports the story that encompasses the results of our OMRON business with these initiatives. initiatives to improve corporate value during the course of the year. Our story Integrated Report 2018 was edited by tells how OMRON has created value to a team of individuals selected from date, how we intend to continue to create our Global Investor Relations & Brand value in the future, and why we think this Communications HQ and Sustainability is possible. We hope that communicating Office. We also owe a word of thanks to the commitment of OMRON management others within and outside of OMRON who to sustainable corporate growth over provided their valuable input. This entire the medium and long term encourages process proved to be an opportunity for greater engagement with our seeing OMRON strengths and issues from stakeholders. new perspectives. Our report production team will continue to work hard on future The theme of this year’s report is integrated reports, just as they look Accelerating the Creation of Innovation forward to further opportunities to interact Driven by Social Needs. What do we with you, our important stakeholders. We mean by Innovation Driven by Social hope you take the chance to share your Needs? We mean taking up the challenge opinions about Integrated Report 2018 to lead the world in solving social issues with us. through groundbreaking innovative value. This stance has been part of the OMRON August, 2018 DNA since our founding, and it continues Tsutomu Igaki to live on in the OMRON Principles. In Executive Officer and Senior General Manager this year’s report, we make the case that Global Investor Relations & Brand Communications HQ it is our initiatives to create innovation The Integrated Report Production Team Shiokoji Horikawa, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto 600-8530 Japan TEL: +81-75-344-7000
