United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 www.firsthouse.no Side 1|5 First House AS – Communication of Progress 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS First House AS is committed to upholding the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all laws and bylaws that apply in relation to our employees, our clients and anyone within our scope. Our policies and rules of conduct are contained within our Quality Manual which is audited annually to ensure complete compliance and to ensure consistency with best practices. First House is an equal employment opportunity employer. We are committed to respecting fundamental human rights and the dignity of each individual as we embrace the diversity of our employees. It is imperative that our employees are treated fairly and equitably. Our hiring practices are based on merit, fairness and equity and we adhere to all Norwegian laws regarding hiring. First House provides and maintains a safe workplace for its employees and we are committed to the safety and welfare of our employers, contractors, clients and the public who may be affected by our work. We do not tolerate any form of bullying nor harassment. Each Christmas since our inception in 2010, First House has chosen to give a donation to a charitable organization in lieu of giving any sort of gift in appreciation of our clients. The recipient of this donation is decided on the input from all of our employees and chosen by way of democratic vote. IMPLEMENTATION In accordance with Norwegian law, First House has a Working Environment Committee that is specifically designed to uphold the legal requirements for the fair, safe and equitable treatment of employees. Our employees are encouraged to express any concerns regarding employee rights or the workplace. We operate with full transparency and all concerns will be addressed and dealt with, with the findings presented at our weekly meetings when information is shared with all members of our company. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES First House is pleased to say that there have been no allegations of human rights abuses or unfair treatment placed before the Working Environment Committee. Each employee receives a copy of the Quality Manual which covers such matters as conduct and ethics. Each employee is required to inform the CEO when he or she has read the Manual and if there are any questions. Side 2|5 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS First House offers equal employment opportunities to qualified individuals without regard to race, religion, colour, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, physical / mental disability, and any other classification protected by the law. We are committed to maintaining high level and ethical human resource processes, as well as fair employment practices regarding non-discrimination, and compensation. The Working Environment Committee is readily available should an employee have a concern involving potential discrimination or harassment. Any and all complaints will be investigated in a timely fashion in a fair and discreet manner. We also require our business partners, suppliers and any third parties to abide by the labour principles of the Global Compact. Forced labour and child labour are strictly prohibited in every area where First House is involved. IMPLEMENTATION Our Working Environment Committee has an open-door policy and all trepidations regarding labour rights, violations, questions or concerns will receive immediate attention. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES First House conducts an annual review of our Quality Manual to ensure continuous progress in the area of labour practices. Our workforce is now comprised of 40% women and we are diverse in age with both very experienced employees and employees fresh out of school. Each employee is required to read our Quality Manual regarding conduct and ethics, and is required to report to the CEO when this has been done. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Side 3|5 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS First House is a service-based company and thus has a limited carbon footprint. We are however an environmentally conscious company and committed to preservation of our natural resources. To reduce our carbon footprint, we are moving towards a paperless environment. We purchase green supplies meaning that they are made of recycled materials. We recycle paper, cardboard, food, plastics, tin and electronic waste. We also have a bicycle parking area where employees can safely leave their bicycles. Heating / air conditioning function at a reduced capacity and lights are all turned off outside of normal working hours. We engage in conference calls and online meetings with out-oftown clients when travel is not necessarily warranted. We are also an active participant in the Xerox Cartridge collection and recycling program where cartridges are disposed of properly. Our canteen uses reusable dishes and cutlery instead of paper and plastic utensils. Environmentally-friendly, biodegradable cleaning agents are used in all areas of the building. IMPLEMENTATION Employees are encouraged to use double-sided printing when a document must be printed. For the upcoming year, we will continue to make every effort to abide by our environmental policies and further reduce our carbon footprint. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Any breach of our environmental practice can be directed to the Working Environment Committee or to the CEO. Such actions will be without rebuttal and will be acted upon immediately. Revision of the policies in conjunction with established global policies is conducted annually as part of our Quality Manual revision. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS First House holds its employees to the highest standards regarding corruption in all forms in accordance with Norwegian and international laws. We have a zero tolerance for corruption as is clearly stated in our Quality Manual. As a business which has dealings internationally, First House recognizes the importance of cultural etiquette and how intricate business protocol can be. All employees are required to undergo an introductory course in anti-corruption which is offered by FSi, (a Norwegian-based organization that advocates the interests of the Norwegian defence and security industries). The course is offered online, at the employee’s convenience, and is a tool based on the UN Convention Against Corruption and the UN Global Compact’s 10th principle. The objective of this program is to increase each employee's awareness about corruption and their ability to recognize situations where corruption may arise. Should an employee encounter any instance of corruption including extortion and bribery, the CEO and/or Working Environment Committee will be advised immediately. Side 4|5 IMPLEMENTATION First House has an open door policy regarding anti-corruption. The Working Environment Committee and the CEO are ready to provide assistance in any situation where corruption is even remotely suspected. The CEO conducts an annual review of the Quality Manual wherein anti-corruption training is addressed. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES First House maintains a strict ethics policy and is financially audited every year by an outside organization. The Working Environment Committee meets whenever necessary, and not less than once every 12 months. First House remains current on global industry standards and governmental regulations regarding anti-corruption. We also review our internal policies annually by way of revision to our Quality Manual. During our seven years of operation, there has not been one instance of corruption or suspected corruption. Side 5|5
