United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Communication of progress August 2018 Antonio Guterres Grant Thornton UK LLP Secretary-General 30 Finsbury Square London United Nations EC2P 2YU New York www.grantthornton.co.uk NY 10017 USA 13 August 2018 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, At Grant Thornton UK LLP w e've chosen to set our reputation alongside a bold purpose of shaping a vibrant economy, one w hich builds trust and integrity in markets, unlocks grow th in dynamic businesses and fosters environments w here both people and business thrive. We are confident that focusing on shaping a vibrant economy creates good grow th for people, places and business. And to achieve our purpose w e need the potential of all our people to be unleashed to be our best, so our approach is underpinned by a culture of “shared enterprise” to enable all our people to be engaged in creating the ideas, empow ered to take responsibility for innovation and to share in the rew ards. With this in mind I am pleased to confirm that Grant Thornton supports and actively promotes the adoption of The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) w ith respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In our second annual Communication on Progress (COP), w e describe our actions to integrate The Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations and how w e may look to continually improve our adoption in future years through our engagement in collaborative projects. Yours sincerely, Sacha Rom anovitch Chief Executive, Grant Thornton UK LLP © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 Contents Section Page Grant Thornton – w hat makes us different 04 Human rights 05 Labour 09 Environment 13 Anti-corruption 17 The Social Mobility Accountancy Firm Director of Finance Awards 2015 Employ er Index 2017 of the Y ear (Larger Clients) Accounting and Audit #1 f or Social Mobility FD Excellence Awards 2016 & 2014 Prov ider of the Year Director of Finance Awards 2015 & 2016 Glassdoor Accounting and Audit Provider Best Places to Work Employees' Global f irm of the year of the Y ear Choice Ranking 2016-2017 in 2015 and 2013 (position #12) Business Innovation & Skills (BIS) Univ ersum 2016 Top Employ ers for Working Families 2016 Social Mobility Business Compact Champion Special Awards 2017 World's Most Attractive Employers Best f or Innovation © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 3 Grant Thornton – what makes us different We have a bold purpose – to shape Why it is relevant a vibrant economy. Through the Vibrant Economy programme, and our Shared Enterprise model, w e strongly believe that if all our people are It’s w hat w e stand for. involved in shaping and delivering our vision, it w ill differentiate us We've chosen to set our reputation alongside a bold purpose in the market by our engagement w ith our clients. Our Shared – by unlocking the potential for grow th in our people, clients Enterprise model is simple and can be summarised w ith this and our communities w e believe w e can help shape a vibrant equation: economy w here no-one gets left behind. It's bold and w e know w e can't do it alone. Collaboration is at Shared Sharing Sharing Sharing the heart of achieving our purpose – w hether that's w orking Enterprise = ideas + responsibility + reward w ith banks, regulators and government to rebuild trust or w orking w ith the public sector to build thriving environments that support sustainable and inclusive grow th. Key to a vibrant economy is using the productive capability of every person, to help improve their ow n circumstances and drive We have a proven track record, w orking w ith more than economic grow th. By creating this environment w e are looking to 20,000 dynamic organisations across the UK, of helping offer people, w ho might otherw ise miss out, the chance to develop businesses unlock their grow th potential and supporting new w ays of w orking and new w ays to engage. them through strategic change, rapid expansion and facing the constantly changing economic and regulatory environment. UK member firm of £534 Grant Thornton International Ltd Shaping a vibrant economy – a firm million Services ov er 40,000 at the heart of growth individuals, privately held businesses and public We are seeking to stimulate ideas and actions that can interest entities providing create a vibrant economy – one w hich realises the shared assurance, tax and Turnover advisory services. potential of companies, cities, people and communities across the UK. We believe that business can do w ell as w ell as do good. That it can be an economy w hich empow ers people to bring out their best: one based on purposeful 4,500 26 grow th, achieved through collaboration, w hich nurtures thriving cities and communities nationw ide. Where grow th is people in 26 UK offices Over 180 locations including three not an end in itself, but a means of enabling us all to pursue Partners our ambitions. support sites We w ant to w ork w ith individuals and organisations across Grant Thornton International Ltd the public, private and third sectors to help develop the foundations of a vibrant economy. We’ve identified three key areas w here w e believe w e can make the most impact in $4.6 Best Programme for Leadership shaping a vibrant economy: billion Managing Partners' Forum Awards 2015 • building trust and integrity in markets • unlocking sustainable grow th in dynamic organisations Fee Global methodologies, Fastest grow ing • creating an environment w here businesses and people income strategy, global brand, of world's six largest can flourish. global values – accounting organisations consistent global serv ice To find out more information on how Grant Thornton are shaping a Vibrant Economy click here 47,000 in 130 countries people © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 4 Human rights Grant Thornton respect and support the internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure the firm is not complicit in human rights abuses. Where possible and applicable, the firm encourages and adopts relevant ‘human rights’ principals as in line with current legalisation and law into various employment practices and values of the firm; some of which include respecting others, valuing diversity both in the workplace and in the supply chain and maintaining a workplace that is free from prejudice, harassment and bullying. Grant Thornton are advocates of the fundamental rights and freedoms that everyone in the UK is entitled to. Human rights Assessment, policy and goals We as a firm are dedicated in upholding human rights and creating an inclusive and diverse w orking environment for all our people. In a fast paced, changing w orld Grant Thornton is committed to making sure all firm policies remain fit for purpose, are inclusive and aligned to best practice. Through regular Human Rights review s w e make every effort to ensure w e are compliant w ith all current regulation, legalisation and law . Principal 1. Our Shared Enterprise culture provides us w ith the Businesses should support and respect the protection opportunity to continually explore new ideas and firm w ide of internationally proclaimed human rights: and goals together, allow ing us to continually review and develop Principal 2. the practices, processes and policies w e have in place, ensuring the firm’s ongoing support and commitment to our Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights people in relation to human rights. abuses. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 6 Human rights Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principals through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: Firm value im plem entation Training im plem entation Our CLEARR values: Collaboration, Leadership, Excellence, As part of training, managers are issued w ith a copy of the Agility, Respect, and Responsibility underpin our culture and Equality Act 2010 – Guidelines for Managers. Ongoing influence how w e conduct business. They are embedded training in this area includes various up skilling and refresher throughout our business and set the parameters for how w e w orkshops for our people managers. Recently some of these expect people to behave w ith their colleagues, clients and sessions have explored diversity and inclusion and our the w orld at large. We seek to treat everyone fairly and obligations in this area, particularly w hen dealing w ith day-toconsistently, creating a w orkplace and business environment day people issues such as managing sickness absence, that is open, transparent and trusted. underperformance and general grievances. Inclusive decision making training has recently been introduced to Grant Thornton. We have run a session Policy im plem entation involving our Senior Leadership Team around the impact The UK firm is committed to continually developing and of unconscious bias in decision making both in terms of implementing the various practices, processes and policies progression of talent and selecting individuals for certain that fully support and abide by current UK human rights law jobs. We also ran this w orkshop for those responsible for and regulation. The UK firm has already implemented a the Firm’s recruitment and promotion decisions (for example number of w ide ranging policies across the firm encouraging the partner selection panels), our ow n People and Client and supporting human rights across all areas of the Experience team and the Firm’s Inclusion w orking group. business. We have also developed an on line programme to further Such policy implementation examples include the follow ing: encourage our managers to think about inclusive decision making. We are continually looking for w ays to improve • Inclusion policy (including mental health and diversity our established w ays of w orking and further remove barriers policy) to success. • Bullying and harassment policy Modern Slavery policy and Supplier Code of Conduct • Capability policy im plem entation • Redundancy policy Our policy is to assess and address the risks of violations of anti-human trafficking and anti-modern slavery law s. • Remuneration policy We adopt procedures that contribute to ensuring modern To improve our understanding of our w orkforce and to slavery does not occur in our business or supply chains and identify potential barriers to success, w e track the w e expect organisations w ith w hom w e do business to adopt demographics of our people to compare w ith external and enforce policies to comply w ith the legislation. We benchmarks and to monitor progression internally. The firm actively consider how w e support or conduct business w ith maintains records of this data solely for this purpose. The organisations involved in slavery, human trafficking, forced diversity details of any member of the firm w ill not be shared or child labour and w e have our firm’s Supplier Code of internally or externally w ithout their permission. Conduct to assist. We also support leading academic research to further our Please click here to read the firm’s Modern Slavery collective understanding of w ider diversity and inclusion Statement trends in the w orkplace. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 7 Human rights Measures and outputs As a result of the various human rights policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Procurem ent Education Our procurement policies integrate human rights into the w ay • We are involved in Access Accountancy, a one-w eek w e do business throughout our supply chain, so w e create placement to provide those from less privileged value, preserve natural resources and respect the interests backgrounds the opportunity to develop critical skills of the communities w e serve and from w hom w e procure and develop a professional netw ork. We have an annual goods and services. commitment of at least 1% of our headcount to be placed on the programme and w e also support participants Through our Responsible Purchasing Policy and Supplier progressing to our school leaver scheme or talent pool Code of Conduct, w e expect our suppliers to keep to all law s them for future opportunities. relating to their business, as w ell as the principles of the United National Global Compact, the United Nations • Since 2013, w e have had flexible academic entry Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour requirements for all our; graduate, school Organisation. leaver/apprentice, internship, placement and w ork experience programmes. We do not stipulate any minimum grade requirements and use a balanced Social m obility screening scorecard to assess potential across a range of areas. • Grant Thornton UK LLP has previously been aw arded Social Mobility Business Compact “Champion” status by • All our entry level roles are advertised openly and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), formally on the careers section of the Grant Thornton one of only 12 firms, for demonstrating leadership and w ebsite. We actively partner w ith third party advertising exemplary practice in the field of social mobility. As a providers w ho can provide reach across all spectrums Champion, the firm have been w orking w ith BIS to deliver of society. We w ork w ith Milkround specifically to target approximately 30 commitments across the areas of: students via e-marketing channels w ho go to 'new ' outreach; w ork placements; recruitment; monitoring and universities w hich have a much more diverse student evaluation; and leading, championing and communicating population. We w ork w ith specialist providers such as best practice Pure Potential and Pathw ay CTM, to target students of school age from less advantageous backgrounds. All new • We w ork w ith and are members of the Business Disability advertising partnerships and providers have to be able to Forum. We have support available for individuals w ith demonstrate that their breadth of reach encompasses disabilities, w ith a disability defined as a physical or students from all backgrounds before w e embark upon mental impairment w hich has a substantial and long-term any advertising w ith them. adverse effect on a person’s ability to carry out normal day to day activities. “By many standards, I do not fit the typical image of a Em ployee assistance helpline corporate employee in the UK. I’m a female, an ethnic To help employees better prepare for and cope w ith life minority, from a low income, deprived area. Statistically events – including the things that could potentially cause speaking, it’s much more likely that I w ould be unemployed anxiety and stress – Grant Thornton provides access to a or even in the prison system in the UK than w orking for a free and confidential service offering expert advice, valuable professional services firm. I’m now a mature student, and information, specialist counselling and support. an associate on a 12 month placement w ith Grant Thornton. This year, I w ill more than likely be the highest earner in my immediate family. If that isn’t exemplary of Grant Thornton’s social mobility agenda, I don’t know w hat is.” Audit Associate, Birm ingham office © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 8 Labour Grant Thornton is committed to upholding the UN Global Compact Principals in relation to labour. The firm is dedicated to ensuring that all labour standards are an active component of our people’s daily working environment and experience and implement polices and practices that encourage the adoption of such standards. Labour Assessment, policy and goals The firm recognise that w e are responsible for the health, . safety and w elfare at w ork of all our people, w hether that be on the firm’s premises or carrying out the firm’s business elsew here. Notw ithstanding the firm’s legal responsibilities to comply w ith legislation, the firm is committed to keeping the w orkplace, our clients and suppliers, and the local Labour community safe from any adverse consequences of our w ork activity and ensuring that all efforts are made to remove or Principal 3. reduce the risks of any potential impact. Business should uphold the freedom of association As a firm w e have various processes and policies in place and the effective recognition of the right to collective that support the UN Labour Principals highlighted opposite. bargaining These policies are frequently review ed and updated so as to reflect any changes in UK law and legalisation. Principal 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principal 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and Principal 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 10 Labour Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Labour Principals through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: Policy im plem entation Modern Slavery policy and Responsible Purchasing policy im plem entation The UK firm is committed to continually developing and implementing the various practices, processes and policies As per referenced in Human Rights, our policy is to assess that fully support and abide by current UK labour law and and address the risks of violations of anti-human trafficking regulation, supporting the eradication of discrimination in and anti-modern slavery law s. respect of employment and occupation. Our Responsible Purchasing Policy reflects our overall A selection of policies that support the elimination of business purpose and in so doing seeks through the w orkplace discrimination are highlighted below application of a rigorous procurement process to not only purchase goods and services at best value for money but • Inclusion policy (including mental health and diversity to take into account the ethical, social, environmental, policy) economic and legal impacts of the supply chain. This means • Bullying and harassment policy making purchasing decisions w hich reflect not only the best price in total cost terms over the lifetime of a contract but • Capability policy also require suppliers to: • Redundancy policy • comply w ith all applicable UK and European law s and • Remuneration policy regulation, and • reflect the firm’s ethical, social and environmental standards. Health and Safety im plem entation All suppliers w ill be required to comply w ith, or w ork tow ards The firm endeavours to provide and maintain a safe and compliance w ith, the requirements of our Supplier Code of healthy w orking environment for all employees. This includes Conduct. The Code sets out the minimum standards of the follow ing: behaviour expected of our suppliers so that they act in a w ay • complying fully w ith all relevant health and safety that is corporately responsible and sustainable and aims legislation to ensure compliance w ith applicable law s and regulations. We only expect our suppliers to maintain standards that w e • ensuring partners and people are made aw are of their ourselves adhere to. duties in respect of health and safety and that they are given sufficient information, instruction, training and supervision to enable them to carry out their duties Em ployee Survey im plem entation effectively and safely We conduct company-w ide employee surveys to get a better • consulting w ith people on a timely basis on matters understanding of employee morale, satisfaction, and relating to their health and safety at w ork, as defined engagement at Grant Thornton. The results of these surveys by current health and safety legislation are used to improve the firm’s culture and performance. • ensuring safe means of access to and from all places of w ork under the firm’s control are established and maintained. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 11 Labour Measures and outputs As a result of the various labour policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Health and Safety (H&S) Diversity and Inclusion • Workplace inspections – the Health and Safety Officer In July 2017, Grant Thornton w on the ‘Working Families – (HSO) is required to ensure regular review s of the Allen & Overy innovation aw ard’ for our flexible approach w orkplace are carried out using the safety inspection to family pay. This aw ard means w e are standing out in the checklist. The inspection w ill cover all areas of the market for our unique approaches to tackling the root cause w orkplace w hich are the responsibility of the firm. problems of progressing healthy diversity and inclusion in our A quarterly review w ill be undertaken in conjunction people experience. w ith our co-sourced facilities partners and recorded in the H&S document schedule. Continuing Professional Developm ent • Annual Practice Leader sign off – it is the overall responsibility of the Practice Leader to ensure Our culture is one that encourages the continued compliance w ith the firm's H&S procedures by review ing development of all our professional people both in terms the completed annual H&S compliance confirmation/H&S of their technical expertise and their up-to-date know ledge compliance documents submitted by the local HSO. and understanding of our market place. This is underpinned by our firm-w ide Continued Professional Development policy w hich is rigorously implemented and monitored. Social Mobility Grant Thornton w as ranked number one in the first ever Social Mobility Employer Index, grading 50 top UK businesses on their openness to accessing talent from all backgrounds. To improve our understanding of our w orkforce, and to identify potential barriers to success, w e track the demographics of our people to compare w ith external benchmarks and to monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any member of the firm w ill not be shared internally or externally w ithout their permission. We also support leading academic research to further our collective understanding of w ider diversity and inclusion trends in the w orkplace. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 12 Environment As a purpose led firm we care about the work we do for our clients, the way we treat our people and the impact we have on our society and environment. We wholeheartedly support the UN Global Compact Environment Principals and are committed to the protection of the world around us, including the prevention of pollution and the minimisation of our environmental impact through our operations and services. We continually review and change the way we work so we can make a positive difference in the world around us through: • the efficient use of resources and systems • encouraging our people to complement our corporate activity with their efforts. Environment Assessment, policy and goals At Grant Thornton w e are committed to the protection of the environment and to reducing carbon emissions in order to slow dow n anthropogenic climate change. We use our purchasing pow er to manage and minimise the negative ethical, social and environmental impacts of our supply chain to make a positive contribution to ethical business practices, quality of life in society and to protection of the environment. Environment The firm’s environmental policy focuses on the follow ing: • meeting or exceeding our improvement targets Principal 7. • complying w ith ISO14001 and its verification Business should support a precautionary approach • adhering to all compliance obligations and keeping up to environmental challenges to date w ith new legislation Principal 8. • promoting our targets, performance and further actions to our people Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • engaging our people in managing our environment impact responsibility; and • ensuring our policy is visible to our people, clients and Principal 9. communities. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. To ensure w e contribute to achieve the 2015 Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting global w arming to below 2 degrees, w e are w orking on setting a science based target in line w ith the Science Based Targets initiative. In the meantime our overall 2020 environment goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 5%, w e w ill do this by: • reducing electricity consumption by 5% • reducing business travel emissions by 5% • reducing paper consumption by 5% • reducing w aste by 5% • increasing recycling by 5%. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 14 Environment Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Environment Principals through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: At Grant Thornton w e are constantly seeking w ays to improve the energy efficiency and environmental performance of our buildings and operations. Our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System informs our annual objectives, related targets and agreed actions. Over the past year w e have undertaken the follow ing activities to implement environmental policies and reduce environmental risk. Area Action Energy • Monitored electricity consumption. • Improved access to accurate supplier data. • Investigated anomalies in data. • Used profiling to identify energy savings opportunities. • Increased employee awareness through environmental campaigns (e.g. switch off campaign “Goodbye Standby). • Adopted an agile working environment across our offices. • Adjusted settings of Building Management Systems in some offices to reduce energy wastage. • Replaced outmoded UPS and fan coil units in London buildings. • Virtualisation of some components of our data centre. Travel • Every month reported rolling twelve month carbon emissions from travel to incentivise employees to increase virtual meetings and lower carbon travel modes. • Communicated environmental benefit and cost reduction of reducing travel across the group. • Increased accuracy of monitoring and reporting. Paper • Further reduced printing by 19%. Waste • Continued rollout of our waste and recycling strategy across the UK. • Further reduced number of disposable cups used through reuse. • Set up a plastic reduction strategy. • Improved accuracy of monitoring. • Improved employee awareness. • Improved signage on waste stations. Communication • Created new posters. • Utilised internal social media platforms. • Communicated fun and engaging blog relating to our environmental objectives and targets. Procurement • Further engaged our suppliers on sustainability performance. • Developed Responsible Purchasing Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 15 Environment Measures and outputs As a result of the various environment policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Our environmental management system across the UK is certified to ISO 14001 and is audited annually. It focuses on objectives and actions on areas that w ill have the most significant environmental impact both in the short and long term. We also comply w ith the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme and report to the Carbon Disclosure Project annually. Over the past 12 months w e have: • reduced electricity consumption by over 2% • reduced paper consumption by 19% • increased recycling by 4%. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 16 Anti-corruption Grant Thornton take the risks associated with corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery extremely seriously. We have in place robust procedures and specialist personnel to assist in the detection and combating of fraudulent activity within our business and are fully committed to ensuring that should areas of development be revealed, appropriate and necessary corrective action is taken promptly. The firm is fully committed to upholding the tenth, UN Global Compact Principal of Anti-corruption. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Grant Thornton are bound by the legislation contained in the Bribery Act 2010, and have a zero tolerance policy on bribery, corruption, money laundering and fraud, avoiding even the appearance of impropriety. Our policy can broadly be described as: ‘Partners and employees should not accept from or give to Anti-Corruption clients, suppliers or third parties any benefit, rew ard or gift (including hospitality) w hich might, or might be seen to, Principal 10. prejudice our integrity and objectivity in relation to our clients. Furthermore, w e understand that failure to prevent bribery is Businesses should w ork against corruption in all its forms, an offence, therefore w e ensure w e are able to demonstrate including extortion and bribery. that w e have implemented 'adequate procedures' to prevent corrupt practices w ithin the organisation or by third parties on its behalf.’ The firm is w holeheartedly committed to w orking against corruption in all forms and implementing the necessary policies and processes to ensure compliance at both firm and individual levels. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 18 Anti-corruption Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Anti–corruption Principal through various policies and procedures. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: The firm is subject to ethical and independence standards Whistleblow ing set by the Financial Reporting Council (formerly the Auditing A w histle blow ing policy is also in operation and on an Practices Board (APB)), the Institute of Chartered annual basis all our people are reminded of its existence Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), and the and their responsibilities. Employees can report potentially International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). We corrupt practices to the head of their service line or use the recognise the impact of our individual and collective confidential w histleblow ing helpline. behaviours on our reputation so w e help our people to understand their ethical responsibilities by providing clear An annual report of the audit of key risk areas is prepared policies and procedures, efficient and intuitive systems, a and presented to the firm’s senior management, w ho take strong culture of support and consultation, regular training action as appropriate. Any changes are approved by the and aw areness programmes. board at regular meetings, how ever due to confidentiality w e are unable to disclose details of these. Policy im plem entation Leadership Our bribery and corruption policy is monitored by Internal Assurance based on the result of the Annual Regulatory The firm’s ‘Quality and Ethics Partner’, Jonathan Riley, Statements and Declarations. On an annual basis, all provides guidance and support on the application of UK and partners and employees are required to confirm their international ethical standards. He is supported by the firm’s understanding and know ledge of key statutory and regulatory ethics team w hich provides advice on ethical issues and polices, and reports on gifts and hospitality given, and concerns and enables our people to obtain advice on received in line w ith the firm’s policy. An internal audit is sensitive, high-risk or complex issues on a confidential basis. carried out to ensure that the policy and supporting procedures have been operated and are effective. Training and e-learning programmes On joining the firm, all partners and employees are provided Bribery and Fraud w ith the Code of Conduct and experience our orientation Grant Thornton take the risks associated w ith bribery and programme including online training programmes on key fraud extremely seriously and is bound by the legislation policies such as anti-money laundering, confidentiality and contained in the Bribery Act 2010. The firm has a zero information security and The Bribery Act. Our ethical tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We have in approach is embedded across all learning and place robust procedures, policies and specialist personnel communication programmes. We have a customised eto assist in the detection and combating of fraudulent activity learning programme relating to bribery and corruption w hich w ithin our business. Our anti-money laundering, bribery and is designed to heighten the aw areness of the requirements corruption training programme for our entire team of partners of the Bribery Act and w hich must be completed by all clientand employees, ensures everyone has an aw areness and facing partners and staff (grade 2 and above) and all those understanding of their legal obligations and the implications involved in procurement. Any instances of bribery and of failing to adhere not just to these legal obligations but also corruption w ithin the firm w ill be treated as gross misconduct our code of ethical conduct. leading to instant dismissal. Regular risk review s monitor the adequacy of our procedures In addition, on an annual basis everybody is required to thereby safeguarding our diverse range of stakeholders and confirm their understanding of, and compliance w ith, relevant protecting the relationships they build w ith Grant Thornton. ethical requirements and key policies as summarised in the Core Manual and the guiding principles set out in the Code of Conduct. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 19 Anti-corruption Measures and outputs Maintaining objectivity and independence is vital to maintaining our reputation. We have a robust system of independence and conflict checks, which are designed to identify potential conflicts of interest at the earliest possible juncture and respond to them appropriately. Anti–corruption Monitoring We actively monitor our people’s compliance w ith ethical • w e maintain a comprehensive log of instances w hich and independence requirements in the follow ing w ays: are reported to the Money Laundering Regulatory Officer. • on an annual basis all of our people are required to This not only includes suspicions of bribery but of any confirm in the firm’s Annual Regulatory Statements and financial crime. The record includes any and all follow up Declarations process that they understand and have and w hether or not the matter w as onw ard reported to complied w ith the firm’s policies relating to independence, National Crime Agency. We have no plans to delete the confidentiality, market abuse, gifts and hospitality, and records after a predetermined period. It is our policy to w histleblow ing retain the record in perpetuity • quality control and quality assurance review s of • everyone w ithin the firm has a statutory obligation to assignment files across all service lines check report know ledge or suspicion of bribery and corruption. compliance w ith internal controls and specifically Know ledge or suspicion of such activity: engagement acceptance procedures and independence – should be notified to the Engagement Leader and policies Practice Leader • on an annual basis, the Global Independence System – the Engagement Leader and Practice Leader w ill accounts of 10% of partners and 5% of managers are review the information provided review ed – follow ing their review , the information w ill be • against evidence to support their recorded financial submitted to the MLRO w ho w ill decide w hat further interests action, if any, is deemed necessary • the firm’s internal audit function review s compliance w ith – alternatively, the confidential w histleblow ing helpline key internal controls across every service line on a threeshould be contacted should there be a need to keep yearly basis and reports to the Senior Leadership Team the reporting of such information anonymous and the Partnership Oversight Board through the Risk and Audit Committee Code of Conduct • w e encourage our people to consult w ith others w hen faced w ith a difficult decision or to speak up on areas Our Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards of concern. How ever, if for w hatever reason they feel for our business, and creates an ethical and behavioural unable to do so, w e have provided an externally hosted, framew ork for how w e apply our values to guide our people’s confidential w histleblow ing hotline. Reports of the response to the decisions they are required to make hotline’s activity are formally review ed quarterly by the each day. Risk and Audit Committee • regular risk review s monitor the adequacy of our Quality procedures thereby safeguarding our diverse range of stakeholders and protecting the relationships they build We continuously invest in processes and infrastructure that w ith Grant Thornton drive efficiency and compliance and provide direction and support to our people. The policies and procedures w hich drive our internal quality control systems are embedded in every part of our business. © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 2018 20 © 2018 Grant Thornton UK LLP. All rights reserved. ‘Grant Thornton’ refers to the brand under which the Grant Thornton member firms provide assurance, tax and advisory services to their clients and/or refers to one or more member firms, as the context requires. Grant Thornton UK LLP is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. GTIL and each member firm is a separate legal entity. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL does not provide services to clients. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. This proposal is made by Grant Thornton UK LLP and is in all respects subject to the negotiation, agreement and signing of a specific contract/letter of engagement. The client names quoted within this proposal are disclosed on a confidential basis. All information in this proposal is released strictly for the purpose of this process and must not be disclosed to any other parties without express consent from Grant Thornton UK LLP. grantthornton.co.uk GRT106616
