We’re Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 NORTH AMERICA BRENNTAG WORLDWIDE FACTS AND EUR 4.4 BN FIGURES EXTERNAL SALES > 4,700 ESSEN GERMANY EMPLOYEES READING PENNSYLVANIA HOUSTON TEXAS LATIN AMERICA Regional headquarters More than 530 locations worldwide EUR 0.8 EXTERNAL SALES BN > 1,400 EMPLOYEES KEY FIGURES IN EUR M 2017 2016 2015 Sales 11,743.3 10,498.4 10,346.1 Operating gross profit 2,554.1 2,428.7 2,321.7 Operating EBITDA 836.0 810.0 807.4 Profit after tax 362.0 361.0 368.1 Free cash flow 440.3 641.4 764.3 Employees  at Dec. 31 15,416 15,072 14,707 Personnel expenses 990.8 913.0 853.0 including social insurance contributions Accident rate (LTIR)1) 1.7 1.5 1.6 Employee fluctuation in % 7.7 5.9 5.8 ISO 9001 certifications % of operating sites 86 90 89 1) Number of accidents resulting in at least 1 day’s absence/1 million working hours FACT S AN EMEA D FI GU RE 5.0 EUR EXTERNAL SALES BN S > 7,000 ASIA PACIFIC EMPLOYEES EUR 1.2 EXTERNAL SALES BN > 2,000 EMPLOYEES SINGAPORE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE Umsatz nach Regionen SALES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY REGION n AS AT DEC. 31, 2017 (IN %) AS AT DEC. 31, 2017 (IN %) Mitarbeiter nach Regionen 3.1 13.2 1.0 10.0 7.0 9.4 EMEA North America Latin America Asia Pacific All other segments 37.2 42.7 30.8 45.6 WE ARE BRENNTAG ABOUT BRENNTAG Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution. Connecting chemical manufacturers (our suppliers) and chemical users (our customers), we provide both complete distribution solutions as well as individual chemical products. Brenntag distributes industrial and specialty chemicals for thousands of suppliers. We maintain a global network with more than 530 locations in 74 countries in the regions North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) and Asia Pacific. We serve around 185,000 customers worldwide in various end-market industries. With its corporate strategy1), Brenntag pursues the goal of being the preferred distributor for both specialty and industrial chemicals for our customers and suppliers and, at the same time, the industry leader in safety, growth and profitability. A positive work environment and responsibility towards our more than 15,000 employees worldwide are fundamental aspects of our corporate strategy and therefore also of Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. several 1,000 suppliers more than 530 locations in 74 countries around 185,000 customers more than 10,000 different products 1) For information on Brenntag’s vision, objectives and strategy, please see from page 44 onwards of Brenntag’s 2017 Annual Report. 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG “ConnectingChemistry” – this is the brand promise of Brenntag and of each of its employees to our business partners. As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and users in a value-creating partnership. Brenntag’s key role in the value chain offers huge potential – but also entails an obligation to contribute towards greater sustainability in the industry. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR is part of Brenntag’s brand promise and self-image. For us, sustainability entails more than just commercial success. We also aim to achieve sustainable value creation. For this reason, Brenntag also considers the effects of its business activities on the environment and factors in social issues when making strategic decisions. We’re With Marco Riquelme, Plant Supervisor at our site in Santiago de Chile, we introduce you to an employee who connects all aspects of sustainability in his daily work. His personal ConnectingChemistry story offers an insight into how sustainability is put into practice at Brenntag. Learn more about Marco and watch his video at www.brenntag­.­com/marcoriquelme. PUTTING RESPONSIBILITY INTO PRACTICE Report on Marco Riquelme More on page 14 CONTENTS 2 CEO Letter 4 Sustainability at Brenntag 30 Safety 39 Environmental Protection 45 Supply Chain Responsibility 49 Employees 57 Community 60 Report Profile 63 Practitioner’s Report 65 GRI Content Index Imprint More ConnectingChemistry stories can be found online at www.brenntag.com. In addition, follow our More information ConnectingChemistry campaign at Brenntag’s social media channels. More information online NFB Denoted Non-financial Report (NFB) 2 LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, locations played a part in this, as did the increasing transparency in our energy Sustainably managing a globally operating, decentralized consumption since we began recording company such as Brenntag is a permanent challenge that data globally in 2016. This means that we are happy to take. Occupational safety, environmental we have taken the first step towards protection, efficient use of resources, honesty and integrity ­achieving our goal of reducing CO2 with our business partners and society are values that are ­emissions per tonne of goods sold by deeply embedded within our company. 6% by 2020. In 2018, we will put energy-­ saving at the centre of a global commuIn this report, we are pleased to provide you with a practical nication campaign to further increase real life example of sustainability in action with Marco our employees’ awareness of this issue Riquelme, Plant Supervisor at our site in Santiago de Chile, and to identify energy-saving potential. who, together with his team, incorporates sustainability into everyday work activities and embodies it in the truest sense We have also had success with the of the word. The way in which he takes responsibility and ­topic of sustainable procurement. practices it is exemplary and motivating. He and his team ­Within the scope of our membership are part of our ConnectingChemistry campaign, in which our of the “­Together for Sustainability” employees offer an insight into the world of Brenntag with ­industry initiative, we have now a ­ ssessed their own personal stories. the ­sustainability performance of a large number of our suppliers. These As a Group, we have set targets to provide the strategic ­s uppliers represent around 64% of compass to initiate suitable projects aimed at improving our our total chemical spend. This means sustainability performance, to prioritize measures and to that we have already achieved our quantify our progress (see page 7). t­arget ­coverage ratio of 50% by 2020. The challenge now is to integrate the For example, in the year under review, we succeeded in cutting ­findings obtained even further into our Group-wide CO2 emissions per tonne of goods sold by around purchasing processes and to enhance 2.5% compared to 2016. The various efficiency measures at our our supplier management accordingly. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 CEO LETTER 3 “SUCCESS AND IMPROVEMENT CANNOT BE TAKEN FOR GRANTED. THIS MAKES IT ALL THE MORE IMPORTANT THAT WE DO NOT EASE UP ON OUR EFFORTS.” STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO However, success and improvement cannot be taken for granted. Enhancing our global sustainability In 2017, the Group accident rate did not improve for the first management and embedding sustain­ time in years. The analysis shows that human error continues able action within our operational busito be the main cause of accidents. This makes it all the more ness around the world ­continuously important that we do not ease up on our efforts in the area gives rise to new challenges. Thank of occupational safety. “Safety First” does not happen by itself you for your interest in learning about – it requires constant vigilance from all of us. With our our activities. Please feel free to send Personal Safety Action Plans, we will work to further drive our us any questions or suggestions by safety culture and increase awareness of safe behaviour both email to sustainability@brenntag.de or in the workplace and in the personal lives of our colleagues via our website at www.brenntag.com/ worldwide in 2018. sustainability. In the forthcoming year, we are increasing the dialogue on Best wishes, the effective use of high performance plastics in our business and some of the highly innovative ways we are recycling, and we will use our supply chain management skills to cut waste, which will significantly benefit the overall environment. I hope to report more on the subject in our next sustainability report. Steven Holland In 2017, there were a number of natural weather-related chalChief Executive Officer Brenntag AG lenges affecting numerous Brenntag sites, employees and Essen, Germany, April 2018 neighbouring communities in North and Central America and Asia. In the southern USA there was a succession of hurricanes causing devastation, and the quick and prudent actions of our employees ensured that the damage was kept to a minimum and – even more importantly – that nobody was harmed. Everyone was very impressed by the readiness of our employees in the USA to subsequently help not just their colleagues but also their neighbours and local communities who were ­affected. I would like to sincerely thank them and everyone else who went the extra mile to help others. This sustainability report is based on the Sustainable ­Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. It also serves as a progress report for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a participant, Brenntag affirms its commitment to the UNGC’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption. These principles are among the key standards by which we evaluate all of our business activities. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 4 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG BEING A GOOD EXAMPLE NFB As the number one in chemical distribution, Brenntag has SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL a responsibility towards the environment and society. We GROUP REPORT aim to achieve successful long-term value creation as well as Selected content in this s­ ustainability occupy a leading position in the area of sustainability. Sus­report serves as the separate non-­financial tainability issues such as safety, health and environmental Group report (NFB) pursuant to Section protection, efficient use of resources and compliance with 315b para. 3 of the German C ­ ommercial laws and regulations are deeply rooted in our company. They Code (HGB) to ensure ­compliance with determine our behaviour towards our employees, suppliers the legal requirements of the G ­ erman and customers as well as society in general and they have a CSR Directive ­Implementation Act (CSRdirect influence on the success of our company. RUG). The NFB has been ­audited by Price­ waterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­ We aim to factor in the effects of our business practices on the prüfungsgesellschaft pursuant to environment and society in both our day-to-day activities and ISAE 3000 (Revised) to o ­ btain l­imited strategic decision making. To this end, we have established ­assurance. The NFB is ­denoted with NFB corresponding standards and processes in our international a blue line and the acronym NFB corporate structures. We raise our employees’ awareness of in the sustain­­a­bility report. Detailed these issues and provide them with corresponding training. ­information on the NFB can be found In addition, we support sustainable development through in the Report Profile on page 60 f. our membership of various organizations and initiatives and Information on the business model can discuss sustainability issues with other players in our industry. be found in the management report of Brenntag’s 2017 Annual Report on ­pages 42–43. CREATING VALUE – CHEMICAL PURCHASING TRANSPORT STORAGE BRENNTAG’S ROLE IN MANUFACTURERS WORLDWIDE THE SUPPLY CHAIN Brenntag’s slogan ConnectingChemistry / Several thousand / > 530 locations in 74 countries stands for our self-image as well as our suppliers ­objective and the promise that we make to / Local purchasing teams and global sourcing organization with / > 10,000 industrial more than 1,000 experts all of our partners in the supply chain. As a and specialty chemical provider of a full-line product portfolio and / Cost of materials in 2017: EUR 9.2 billion products as a “one-stop-shop”, Brenntag plays a key role in the chemical industry’s value chain and, as a strategic partner, contributes to greater efficiency. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 5 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT NFB SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT: At NFB SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT: In Group level, there are numerous straorder to identify the sustainability issues that are of material tegic guidelines, policies and projects importance to Brenntag and the relevant stakeholder groups, in the area of sustainability that have a Brenntag conducted a materiality assessment in September/ global focus. Standards and processes Information on the method used for the October 2015. The analysis was based on the principles forare implemented, established and optiMATERIALITY ASSESSmulated by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The results mized and responsibilities are allocated MENT can be found in the Sustainability are detailed in the materiality matrix on page 6. They were at the various levels of the Group. MoreManagement section presented to the Management Board of Brenntag AG and disover, in accordance with the Group’s of our website at www.brenntag.com/ cussed by its members. guidelines and objectives, Brenntag’s sustainability. individual companies and sites pursue Based on these material issues and our sustainability strategy, a large number of activities of their we set sustainability targets for Brenntag in 2016 (see table on own accord and in line with local and page 7). As a guideline, they help to initiate suitable projects regional requirements and commitaimed at improving our sustainability performance, to priori­ ments. We raise our employees’ awaretize measures and to make our progress quantifiable. ness accordingly and provide them with further training. In this way, we intend Our sustainability approach incorporates the guidelines of to shape our sustainability strategy at the UN Global Compact (UNGC). With regard to the ongoing a global level and to develop it further. For information on the UN GLOBAL COMPACT, development of our sustainability strategy, we also take the see page 11. effects of our business activities on our natural and societal environment into account. FILLING MIXING AND EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSE PACKAGING PACKAGING BLENDING TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT CHEMICAL USERS LABELLING SUPPORT WORLDWIDE Around 185,000 customers in various end-market / Repackaging / Just-in-time delivery and inventory industries, e. g.: management / Filling, labelling, barcoding and palletizing / Adhesives / Return of packaging drums / Local distribution and marketing teams comprising / Paints more than 5,000 experts / Efficient logistics and transport management / Oil & gas / Product mixing in line with specific customer requirements / Food / Blending and technical service in our own application laboratories / Water treatment / Personal care / Pharmaceuticals BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 6 BRENNTAG MATERIALITY MATRIX Very important 12 8 13 10 9 11 2 14 3 36 31 28 6 15 30 32 5 29 1 27 19 4 7 17 24 22 33 16 21 18 23 Stakeholder surveys 20 37 35 25 34 26 40 38 39 Important Important Very important Brenntag expert surveys Corporate Governance Environment Employees 1 Compliance 14 Protection of soil, air, water 28 Personnel development 2  Ethical/moral principles 15 Water management 29 Training 3  Anti-corruption 16 Emissions reduction/climate 30 Compensation and benefits 4 Code of conduct protection 31 Working conditions 5 Risk management 17 Resource efficiency 32 Work-life balance 6 Human rights 18 Energy efficiency 33 Talent management 7  Anti-trust & competition laws 19 Environmental management 34 Diversity 20 Recycling 35 Labour and social policy rights Safety 21 Waste management 36 Employee satisfaction and 8 Occupational safety and 22 Transport engagement health protection 37 Recruiting 9 Product safety Supply chain 10 Product quality 23 Sustainable procurement Social Responsibility 11 Process safety 24 Supplier management 38 Social/charitable commitments 12 Safe handling of chemicals 25 Supplier qualification/training 39 Local community engagement 13 Risk prevention 26 Sub-contractor management 40 Participation in industry 27 Sustainable customer solutions associations (products/services) BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 7 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG: OUR TARGETS TARGETS BY STATUS NFB SAFETY LTIR1 day/1 million < 1.0 for 2020 Group accident rate LTIR1 day/1 million in 2017 the ­Brenntag Group was 1.7 (page 36) SUSTAINABLE To analyze 50% of total chemical 2020 The supplier assessments performed by PROCUREMENT spend (in EUR) with sustainability Brenntag and other TfS members as at the assessments or audits as part of end of 2017 cover around 64% of Brenntag’s the membership of “Together for total chemical spend (in EUR) (page 46). Sustainability” We will set a new target value or target during 2018. ENVIRONMENTAL To reduce Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissi2020 2017 Brenntag Group (per 1.000 warehouse PROTECTION ons (per warehouse tonne of goods tonnes of goods sold): sold) by 6% (compared to 2016) Scope 1: 16.3 tonnes Scope 2: 7.2 tonnes Change compared to 2016: –2.5% (pages 39 f.) COMPLIANCE To achieve and sustain a coverage 2018 The coverage rate for global e-learning rate of 100% in compliance training training on the Brenntag Code of Business for the relevant employees Conduct was around 89% at the end of 2017. We have extended the period for achieving the target to the end of 2018 (page 12). EMPLOYEES To provide a working environment Ongoing Various measures were initiated and implewhere the best people want to work mented in the year under review in relation to the following issues: people performance management, HR development, identification and development of potential, and succession planning (pages 49 ff.). SUSTAINABLE To become the preferred distributor 2020 The marketing potential for sustainable proSOLUTIONS for sustainable solutions by setting ducts identified and discussed with BASF as up pilot projects with 10 selected part of the “Sustainable Solution Steering” key suppliers approach will be further pursued in 2018. Brenntag is working to develop other projects with various partners. RATING To achieve and sustain an Ongoing Score in October 2016: 66 points, ­EcoVadis score of at least gold ­status; a new assessment is planned 62 points and gold status for 2018 (page 46). Brenntag has two working groups in the area of s­ ustainability: NFB promotes the ongoing development of NFB an international project team, which consists of representthe company’s sustainability strategy atives of the areas HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), worldwide and maintains a dialogue Compliance, Human Resources, Operations, Purchasing and with those colleagues responsible for Communications, is responsible for the systematic developsustainability issues at Group level and ment of sustainability at Group level. The group meets on a in Brenntag’s regions. In 2016, the Board regular basis as well as on a project-related basis. There is of Management tasked the coordinator also a steering committee comprising individual representawith developing Brenntag’s sustainabiltives of the top management from Brenntag’s various regions. ity targets and subsequently assisting This is also included on a case-by-case basis for strategic diswith and tracking their implementacussions in particular and primarily serves as an interface to tion. The coordinator reports on a regthe operating units and is intended to reinforce integration ular basis as well as on a case-by-case relating to the issue of sustainability at an operational level. and project-related basis to the Board Brenntag also has a central sustainability coordinator who is of Management, which supports the based in Brenntag AG’s Corporate Development department. working groups and the coordinator This coordinator initiates and coordinates global projects and with their tasks. initiatives in cooperation with these two working groups, BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 8 In 2017, the coordinator and the working groups focused on PRACTICAL EXAMPLE the following issues and projects: In the Netherlands in 2017, Brenntag // “ Sustainable procurement”: performance of was awarded a tender as a result of ­sustainability assessments for suppliers its convincing and well-documented // Implementation of the global energy report ­sustainability performance. The cus// Ongoing development of Brenntag’s sustainability tomer, an operator of municipal water ­strategy: tracking of Brenntag’s sustainability targets treatment plants in the southwest of for 2020 the country, issued the applicants with // Ongoing development of the reporting system an ­extensive catalogue of requests, inin ­accordance with the German CSR Directive cluding questions on safety programmes ­Implementation Act incorporated into the company, environmental protection measures, CO2 emisQUALITY MANAGEMENT sions, sustainability partnerships within Brenntag is a chemical distributor which differentiates itself the supply chain and ISO 14001 certififrom its competitors through the high level of quality of its cates. Brenntag also scored well here products and services as well as its strong customer focus and thanks to its gold status in the EcoVadis the excellent level of service provided by its employees. Our sustainability assessment. The responses Group’s sustainability performance has now also become a to these questions had a weighting of competitive advantage. 60% in the selection process, while the bidding price for the chemicals required For further informaUsing management systems, certificates and audits, we conhad a weighting of 40%. Brenntag’s sustion on MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND stantly ensure compliance with the quality standards required tainability performance is also used in ­CERTIFICATIONS, please of us and which we ourselves define. Procedures are in place the internal score cards which many – see the Safety chapter on page 33. at our company which ensure that products are procured from predominantly globally operating – key reliable sources and meet quality standards. Through various accounts put in place for their suppliers mechanisms, we obtain customer feedback for the continuous and in which sustainability is a selection monitoring and improvement of our service quality. criterion. The basis for quality management within the Brenntag Group CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND is the internationally applicable ISO 9001 standard. We aim for COMPLIANCE a global coverage rate of at least 90% at the relevant Brenntag Brenntag has always attached great imlocations. portance to responsible, prudent and sustainable corporate governance. Our top priority is to comply with statutory Year Relevant Brenntag Locations with ISO 9001 certifications requirements as well as voluntary interlocations worldwide nal policies on conduct. To ensure that Brenntag’s abs. abs. in % this happens, management uses various ­CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 2013 390 342 88 internal control and risk management ­SYSTEM as well as its 2014 390 352 90 systems and has established a complireport on oppor­tunities and risks are described 2015 398 356 89 ance organization within the company. in detail on ­pages 92 ff. 2016 395 354 90 Every Brenntag employee is personally of ­Brenntag’s 2017 Annual Report. 2017 422 363 86 responsible for complying with all applicable laws, directives, policies and regulations. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 9 The risk inventories performed every six months by our Group NFB At a regional level, the Regional ExecuNFB companies are an important instrument for global risk manage­ tive Management is responsible for the ment within the risk management system. They involve enquirissue of compliance. Regional compliing about existing risks and assessing these in terms of their ance managers have been appointed probability of occurrence and their potential damage. First, here. They receive, assess and report the gross risk is examined. This is the maximum damage if no any compliance issues and/or quescounteraction is taken. If a risk can be reliably counteracted tions referred to them, coordinate the by effective action, these measures are shown in risk profiles compliance management system at a and assessed with regard to their effectiveness. The residual regional level and regularly pass on risk (net risk) is the gross risk less the effect of measures ­taken information and experience through to reduce the risk. The risk assessment includes risks and opdialogue with Brenntag AG’s GRC manportunities with a sustainability dimension, such as environager. This ensures that our compliance mental risks, employee fluctuation or risks in the area of law/ management is closely interlinked with compliance. In the year under review, Brenntag’s Compliance our business activities at regional level. Committee performed a supplementary risk assessment of the relevant areas in accordance with the requirements of the GerCODE OF CONDUCT: As a global compaman CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG). In future, ny, Brenntag is subject to a large numwe intend to give even greater consideration to Brenntag’s ber of laws, directives, regulations and business relationships and the expectations of stakeholders ordinances. In addition to compliance when performing the risk assessment with the current risk with regulatory frameworks, honesty management system. The Brenntag Group has implemented and integrity are our top priority. All of measures to reduce risk as part of its control and risk manageour fundamental company values, ethment system. With regard to the non-financial aspects of the ical principles, compliance with laws, German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG), a net rules and regulations as well as the relassessment of the risks did not identify any material risks which evant guidelines and procedures which are associated with our business activities or our business reare of key significance for Brenntag and lationships, products and services and which are very likely to its reputation are summarized in a comhave serious negative effects now or in the future. prehensive Code of Business Conduct The Brenntag CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT and Ethics. AND ETHICS is freely COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION: At available in German and English on the the head of Brenntag’s compliance organization is the The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics company’s website at Board of Management and, within this body, its chairman. contains requirements for the following www.brenntag.com/ compliance. The G ­ overnance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) manager in areas: Brenntag AG’s Corporate Internal Audit department regularly reports to the Board of Management on compliance issues. The // Health, safety and the environment regular meetings of the Supervisory Board’s Audit ­Committee // Human rights and working also include reporting on compliance and whistle-blowing conditions as well as on the ongoing development of the Group-wide // Relationships with business ­compliance management system. The GRC manager is sup­partners and public institutions ported by the Compliance Committee as an internal advisory // Bribery and corruption body. This committee includes representatives from the areas // Competition and antitrust law of Legal, Audit, ­Accounting & Tax, Finance & Investor Relations, // Avoidance of conflicts of interest Communications, Risk Management, Information Security, HSE // Data privacy and information as well as Human Resources. Issues and measures aimed at security observing human rights and fighting corruption are also on its agenda. The Code applies to all employees at all levels of the company and is intended to give them guidance in the legal and ethical challenges of their daily work and to encourage proper conduct. It has been translated into various languages and BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 10 NFB has been distributed throughout the entire Brenntag Group NFB The internal control guideline contains and made available to all of our employees. Its observance is further requirements and measures to monitored by the management teams of Brenntag’s various counteract corruption and bribery, such companies. Every infringement of this code of conduct may as ensuring the separation of functions, lead to disciplinary action and is punished in line with the complying with the double-check common company policies. Since 2016, there has been global ­principle and adhering to the requireFor information on the online training for all employees on the code of conduct. ment to obtain comparative bids from TRAINING COURSES, see page 11 f. of this suppliers and service providers. chapter. As well as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there are further Group guidelines which stipulate compliance requireInternal audits are regularly c­ onducted ments, including an anti-corruption guideline, an insider comat our Group companies to ensure compliance guideline and an internal control guideline. The code pliance with these guidelines. In the reFor information on of conduct and all guidelines that are applicable Group-wide porting year, no cases of corruption at the SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT and the can be accessed by all the Group’s employees on the intranet. Brenntag were reported. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT, see the ­Supply chain responUN GLOBAL COMPACT: As a signatory of the United Nations Further elements of the compliance sibility chapter from Global Compact (UNGC), Brenntag is required to make the management system relating to the prepage 45. UNGC’s principles in the areas of human rights, labour standvention of corruption at Brenntag are ards, environmental protection and fighting corruption an target-group-oriented training courses integral element of its corporate strategy. They supplement for employees, which are essentially our own corporate values and principles which guide our rolled out via our e-learning systems, activities. This Sustainability Report is also a progress report and a whistle-blowing system, which which must be published annually within the scope of our can be used to provide anonymous UNGC membership (“Communication on Progress”). information. NFB PREVENTING CORRUPTION: Preventing corruption is an HUMAN RIGHTS: Observing human essential element of Brenntag’s compliance management rights is one of Brenntag’s top principles system. Group-wide requirements relating to anti-corrupand is regarded as an essential element tion are specified in codes and guidelines. They apply to all of its general compliance management employees equally and compliance with them is monitored. system. Through its voluntary commitIf our employees fail to comply with these requirements, ment to the principles of the UNGC, this could have reputational and financial risks for Brenntag. Brenntag seeks to lend further weight Employee misconduct is not tolerated by Brenntag (zero-tolto its position here. The Brenntag code erance policy) and can lead to corresponding disciplinary of conduct stipulates that our company measures or have consequences under labour law. and employees must avoid violations of human rights in any form. We oppose all In addition to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there forms of forced labour or child labour, adis a worldwide anti-corruption guideline for the Brenntag vocate equal opportunities and fair work Group which specifies what type of conduct is expected of conditions, and reject discrimination of all employees in relation to anti-corruption and bribery and any kind. which provides guidance on how employees should behave in critical situations so that their conduct is compliant and Violations of human rights can be rerisks are avoided. ported internally via our compliance organization and anonymously via The anti-corruption guideline contains and specifies requireour whistle-blowing system. If any ments for the following areas: ­suspected violations of human rights are ­confirmed, they are strenuously // Prohibition of corruption and bribery pursued and ­sanctions are incurred. // Gifts, hospitality and other benefits // Donations and sponsorship, including prohibition of political donations on behalf of the company // Prohibition of facilitation payments // Relationship with third parties (sales brokers, agents, etc.) BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 11 In the reporting year, no violations of human rights within the NFB corporate group were reported. UN GLOBAL COMPACT: THE TEN PRINCIPLES For several years, Brenntag has voluntarily undergone a regular sustainability assessment by the international rating ­agency 1 EcoVadis. In October 2016, the Brenntag Group achieved a score of 66 points, thereby attaining gold status. EcoVadis assesses the sustainability performance of companies under the categories of environment, labour practices, fair business practices HUMAN RIGHTS and sustainable procurement. The review of aspects in the area Businesses should support and respect the 2 of human rights is an essential element of this external assess­protection of internationally proclaimed ­human rights and ... ment of Brenntag. A new assessment of Brenntag is planned for 2018. 3 ... ensure that they are not Brenntag believes that the biggest risk of potential violations complicit in human rights abuses. of human rights is in our supply chain. In 2015, within the framework of our membership of the industry’s “Together for Sustainability” initiative, we began to request that our LABOUR STANDARDS suppliers undergo EcoVadis sustainability assessments which Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 also include a review of compliance with human rights. association and the effective recognition of the Brenntag’s Supplier code of conduct explicitly requests that right to collective bargaining, ... our suppliers support the observance of international human rights and that they avoid violations of human rights. 5 Furthermore, there are additional supplier assessments and ... commit themselves to eliminating audits based on standardized questionnaires that also deal all forms of forced labour, ... with the observance of human rights. Brenntag has formed a working group which will deal specifically with the issue of human rights in our company and ... commit themselves to 6 supply chain during 2018 in order to further specify areas abolishing child labour and ... where human rights are a pertinent issue in our company and identify potential dangers in our supply chain. ... commit themselves to eliminating 7 ­discrimination in respect of TRAINING: Our compliance programme focuses particularly employment and occupation. on observing antitrust law requirements, our code of conduct and environmental and health protection, since it is here that Brenntag sees the greatest risks. We hold regular ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION employee training sessions covering these issues – through 8 Businesses should take a precautionary regional and global events which employees attend either approach to dealing with environmental in person or via e-learning systems. The aim is to keep all of challenges, ... Brenntag’s employees’ knowledge up to date and to avoid any illegal actions as well as to protect the environment ... undertake initiatives to promote 9 from being damaged and employees from being injured. greater environmental awareness and ... ... encourage the development and distribution of environmentally friendly ­technologies. 10 FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 12 NFB An obligatory, global training module on Brenntag’s Code of Incoming reports mainly concern ­cases Business Conduct and Ethics was executed in the reporting of suspected fraud and theft. V ­ iolations year. Employees can complete the one-hour training module of the code of conduct (such as ­conflicts online via the global e-learning platform at any time and from of interest and discrimination in the any location. A total of twelve topics are covered – including workplace) and reports ­concerning anti-corruption and the observance of human rights – using ­other compliance issues (such as vio­ practical examples and exercise questions. The employees lations of ­regulations) are also re­ then take a test to ensure that the knowledge has been transport­e d. ­Compliance managers also ferred. Since its introduction in 2016, a total of 10,079 Brenntag re­ceive g ­ eneral inquiries, for instance ­employees worldwide had participated in this training module ­concerning possible conflicts of interest, by the end of 2017, representing about 89% of the relevant and inquiries regarding the acceptance Usually, this excludes employees. of gifts or invitations. If a suspected case EMPLOYEES who do not have access to the is confirmed, this will incur the sanctions e-learning platform There are also in-depth compliance training modules at a glo­ permitted under employment law. (primarily warehouse employees). These bal and regional level on the topics of bribery and corruption employees shall receive and on antitrust law. In the reporting year, the training modules training on the code Year Number of confirmed comof conduct using on European antitrust law and on bribery and corruption were pliance incidents1) ­alternative methods. gradually rolled out on the e-learning platform. They are mandatory for all employees and managers working in commercial 2015 12 areas. In the 2017 reporting year, 1,751 employees participated 2016 11 in the training module on European antitrust law and 1,305 2017 13 employees participated in the training module on bribery and 1) These are cases notified to the GRC manager and for corruption. These figures relate to the online training modules. which sufficient evidence has been established. Compliance incidents may also occur which are notified, Furthermore, there are additional on-location training modules assessed and processed at a local or regional level but on these topics in various countries and regions. which are not reported centrally on grounds of insufficient relevance. WHISTLE-BLOWING SYSTEM: Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance and processing STAKEHOLDERS of Group-wide internal and external complaints as well as Brenntag engages in regular, transparent compliance reports. Our employees can report relevant inforand target-group-specific dialogue with mation either to their direct line manager or to the regional its stakeholders. These include the intercompliance manager, or alternatively via a central email adest groups that are significantly affected dress or a whistle-blowing system on the intranet or internet. by the economic, ecological or social imThe whistle-blowing system also provides the option of makpact of our business or who may be so ing anonymous reports, e.g. on violations of human rights in future. They also include groups that or suspected cases of corruption. Third parties can submit may influence the economic, ecological complaints and report violations by getting in touch with the or social impact of Brenntag now and in compliance contact indicated on Brenntag AG’s website. The the future. information received will always be dealt with on a strictly confidential basis. The reports received are examined and The following persons and entities are appropriate action is taken if a compliance infringement has Brenntag’s key stakeholders: taken place. The processes are managed by Brenntag AG’s GRC manager. Email addresses and other whistle-blowing systems // Suppliers have also been set up at a regional level. The regional compli// Customers For information on ance managers receive and assess any incoming reports and // Employees communication with our EMPLOYEES, see initiate necessary measures. // Investors and analysts the Employees chapter // Journalists on page 49 ff. // Governments and authorities // Associations and organizations // Neighbours and local residents, local communities BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 13 We aim to notify our various target groups promptly and of services. In April 2017, for example, appropriately regarding developments at Brenntag and our sustainability coordinator used the its objectives, thus enabling our stakeholders to obtain a “Sustainability Corner”, which was set ­comprehensive picture of our company and its business up for the first time at the international ­a ctivities. In return, this dialogue enables Brenntag to “in-cosmetics” trade fair in London, as a ­identify the needs and expectations of its stakeholders, platform to present Brenntag’s sustainto evaluate them and to appropriately reflect them in our ability activities to interested members ­business decisions. As well as specific business-related ­issues, of the public. As a member of relevant You will find a list of BRENNTAG’S KEY sustainability issues such as safety, the environment, the technical and industry associations MEMBERSHIPS in the supply chain and compliance also regularly feature in the at a local, regional and ­international Service and Contacts section of our website, discussions. level, Brenntag maintains an active at www.brenntag.com/ ­dialogue concerning industry-specific sustainability. The Brenntag Group pursues dialogue with its stakeholders issues. Brenntag’s Investor Relations and in various ways. Due to the nature of the business model, ­Corporate Communications ­departments our employees maintain close contact with suppliers and regularly and promptly notify i­n­vestors, customers on a day-to-day basis. Systematic customer and ­analysts, journalists, etc. of developments supplier surveys are also regularly carried out. In March within the company, e. g. by presenting 2017, for example, Brenntag in France launched a new onthe company at road shows, in analyst line customer survey, which 2,700 customers had used by conference calls, press conferences and the end of the year to provide feedback on product and events as well as via the company’s service quality and on their experience of safety. It is sent website and social media channels. At to customers after every delivery and processing of a comits various locations, Brenntag pursues plaint. The Brenntag employees responsible can view the lively dialogue with local residents and responses directly using an online tool. This makes it possible local authorities. For example, open to respond immediately to negative feedback. We pursue days provide the opportunity to inform dialogue with business partners worldwide at the many the ­general public about Brenntag and trade fairs where Brenntag presents itself and its portfolio to get to know one another. IN DIALOGUE: Just like at the international IHS Chlor-Alkali Conference in Antwerp in 2017, Brenntag keeps in regular communication with its business partners on a range of issues, including sustainability. The chlor-alkali industry currently faces big challenges – for example there is a demand for new technologies in Europe as a result of environmental concerns. Marco Riquelme has been with Brenntag Chile for 20 years and knows the company by heart. He is Plant Supervisor and Head of the internal Emergency Brigade at the site in Santiago de Chile, and he takes his responsibility in regards to safety towards his team and the environment in general very seriously. Thinking of sustainability and acting to its principles is the basis of his daily work. MARCO RIQUELME / CHILE PUTTING RESPONSIBILITY INTO PRACTICE WHERE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY IS GENUINE TEAMWORK His father has also worked at Brenntag for At many more of the 530 Brenntag sites in more than 25 years, as a truck driver. He was 74 countries, employees have similar ­stories to the superhero of his childhood, who went tell. Stories about responsibility and ­solidarity, out every morning into a world of enormous about challenges and goals achieved together. tankers, a world of men with safety helmets There is a lot involved in s­ ustain­ably man­aging and large goggles who always knew exactly an international ­company and ­ensuring that what they were doing. In the evening, his faall its e ­ mployees c­ omplete their tasks s­ afely. ther came home with stories about how he “­ConnectingChemistry” also stands for this and his colleagues had safely delivered their goal. The company ­slogan ­refers not just to dangerous cargo and successfully completed the connections that Brenntag creates as a their tasks. And the most important thing distributor ­between chemical manufacturers was that his father returned home safe and and chemical users. It refers also to the shared sound every evening. values which ­connect Brenntag’s employees all over the world with each other and which Marco Riquelme always wanted to be a hero also incorp­orate the company’s customers like that. And so, at 19, he applied at Brenntag and suppliers as well as the ­environment and – and was accepted. That was 20 years ago. society. “Brenntag is my chosen ­family. My job is a ­constant challenge and a c­ ontinuous process of improvement,” is his r­eply when asked how he would describe the company – his company. Marco’s father has been working for Brenntag for more than 25 years as a truck driver. These days, father and son often run into each other on the job and work hand in hand. to practice onsibility in Putting resp AT MANY MORE OF THE 530 BRENNTAG SITES IN 74 ­COUNTRIES, EMPLOYEES HAVE ­SIMILAR STORIES TO TELL: “BRENNTAG IS MY ­CHOSEN FAMILY. MY JOB IS A CONSTANT CHALLENGE AND A ­CONTINUOUS PROCESS OF IMPROVEMENT.” Marco Riquelme STARTING THE DAY WITH THE CASA TALK Marco Riquelme has had several stops on his each other and learn from one another.” career path and is now Plant Supervisor at the The morning kick-off meeting is called the Santiago de Chile site, where he is r­ esponsible CASA talk. CASA stands for Calidad (­quality), for 13 employees. He is also Head of the plant’s ­Seguridad & ­Salud (safety and health) and internal Emergency Brigade, comprising Medio ­A mbiente (environment) and is twelve men – something he is particularly the name of a programme that enables proud of. His office is in the middle of the Brenntag to m ­ anage the issues of quality, site, in the headquarters of the Operations ­safety, health and the environment through­ Team. However, since he spends so much out Latin ­America and document and meatime out on the grounds, a radio unit has sure its performance in these areas. Probecome his permanent companion. grammes like CASA also exist at Brenntag in Europe, North America and Asia and are It is seven o’clock in the morning, and his an important element of the safety culture men have gathered in the small meeting within the Group. At the CASA talk, the team room at the Operations headquarters – as is focused as it goes through the day’s tasks happens before every shift. There’s cheerin five ­minutes. “I address the points that are ful back-slapping and plenty of laughter going to be relevant for us today in terms already. “The best thing about my job is of quality, safety and environmental promy team. They support me and assist me tection. As the Plant Supervisor, I put a lot with everything I do, and they work with of emphasis on our CASA programme and a lot of enthusiasm, even on the hardest the daily realization of its core messages. It days,” says Marco with a beaming face. ­enables us to incorporate sustainability into “We all take care of each other, encourage our daily activities,” ­explains Marco. CASA WATCH A VIDEO ON THIS TOPIC AT BRENNTAG’S YOUTUBE CHANNEL CASA is the name of the programme that enables Brenntag to manage the issues of quality, safety, health and the environment throughout Latin America. to practice onsibility in Putting resp “THE BEST THING ABOUT MY JOB IS MY TEAM. WE ALL TAKE CARE OF EACH OTHER, ENCOURAGE EACH OTHER AND LEARN The meeting ends, and it is time to get FROM ONE ANOTHER.” to work. On this particular m ­ orning, three tankers with f­lammable prod­ Marco Riquelme ucts will be arriving – and all at the same time. “We must en­sure that we c­ oordinate the unloading of the trucks properly,” says Marco. “While the first tanker is being unloaded, a staff ­member must lead the waiting trucks to the safe parking zone for flammables.” And check whether the drivers also have the proper personal protective equipment. WELL PREPARED FOR AN EMERGENCY While his people process the first trucks outside, Marco plans the rest of the day. “It’s my job to monitor whether all the delivery requirements have been met and whether everything is prepared. And I have to respond flexibly to any changes that arise ­during a shift,” he says. He always has an eye on ­safety here. One thing Marco is particularly proud of is being Head of the internal Emergency Brigade. The team regularly practices to be prepared in case of an emergency. to practice onsibility in Putting resp ZERO IN 2017, BRENNTAG CHILE’S ACCIDENT RATE LTIR WAS AT ZERO. The daily practice of raising their awareness colleague’s injuries were only minor, and he at the morning CASA talk has often helped was back at work a few days later. “The fact the team to deal with critical situations. that we were all together in a situation like One event left a particular impression on that bonded us even more as a team.” Marco Marco. A few years ago, a colleague was is certain of one thing: “That day ­proved hit in the face with a couple of drops of once more to all of us how important it is caustic soda while filling it despite using to follow the CASA procedures, to use the his ­protective equipment. His tongue and personal protection equipment c­ orrectly neck were burned as a result. “We were all and to continuously raise our awareness frightened, but we followed the safety proand attention – with all our colleagues and tocol exactly. I accompanied my colleague to ­especially with new team members.” the clinic and tried to calm him – although I was more ­nervous than he was.” Luckily, the ACTIVE LUNCH BREAK FOR A CONCENTRATED AFTERNOON “WE CALL THIS ACTIVE PAUSE. IT HAS A PHYSICAL FUNCTION, NAMELY TO RELAX THE MUSCLES, AND A VERY IMPORTANT MENTAL FUNCTION – TO BRING STRESS LEVELS DOWN AND ­RECHARGE THE ­BATTERIES.” Marco Riquelme It is lunchtime now. But before they make It has a physical function, namely to relax their way to the canteen, Marco gathers the muscles, and a very important mental his people for another daily ritual. Led by function – to bring stress levels down and a colleague who is also a trained fitness inrecharge the batteries.” As it is particularly structor, they do some stretches together hot today, he reminds his colleagues before and sing songs, which provides plenty of they disperse to please drink enough water. laughter and also gets their heart rate up. And factor 50 sun cream is readily available Marco explains, “We call this active pause. throughout the site – this is CASA in practice. to practice onsibility in A DEMANDING Putting resp WORK ENVIRONMENT Energy and concentration are essential It is a high-risk and demanding work environ­ ­requirements for everyone working here. ment for everyone, where safety and ­caution That is because the site in Santiago is the must be exercised at all times. And it is central warehouse facility for Brenntag C ­ hile, Marco’s job to monitor this in his area. ­Every along with two other sites – one in Antofaday, his people fill 150 drums with ­these gasta, 1,300 km to the north, and one in Consubstances – some of which are dangerous cepción, 600 km to the south. Deliveries are – mix, blend and transport them, load and sent all over the country from Santiago – to unload an average of ten tankers per day around 1,500 active customers in a dozen and services a total of 50 trucks. Marco different industries. Around 800 different is very aware of this: “­Handling ­chemicals products are stored in the warehouses; the ­requires an enormous degree of r­ esponsibility. portfolio ranges from flammable, toxic or Even the ­smallest incident can have grave corrosive products, which are delivered to ­consequences. That is why it is so important the paint and mining industries for ­example, for us to ensure we protect the environment to food grade products for the food, feed/ as well as maintain occupational safety. If agricultural and pharmaceutical industries. Brenntag did not act in a sustainable manner The flammable products represent a sig­nifi­ here, the company would ultimately destroy cant fire risk, in particular due to electro­ itself.” static charging. In case of contact, spillage or release, the corrosive chemicals and toxic substances pose a danger to people and the environment. Even food products are subject to strict storage and handling regulations. Handling chemicals demands caution and alertness at all times. MAKING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PART OF EVERYDAY ACTIVITIES However, environmental protection does improve the results.” For example, they not just mean preventing “­environmental want to ­reduce waste and the ­consumption ­incidents”, as they are called, but also a ­ ctively of water ­­ and energy. Drums and other protecting the environment. This is an ­issue ­containers are c­ leaned and reused several close to Marco’s heart: “How could I be times. And, of course, palettes, cardboard, ­in­different to it? We are part of the environplastic, glass and paper are separated and ment. If we ignore it, we n­ eglect ourselves. If sent for recycling. A solar panel produces we destroy it, we destroy ourselves. W ­ ithout electricity to heat water, and an intelligent the environment, there is no society.” route-planning system s­ aves fuel. “Environmental protection is deeply embedded within He is not the only one who takes this view. all our actions – and has been for many years. The team in Santiago has undertaken several Today, for example, it would be inconceiv­ initiatives in recent years. “During our daily able to throw away paper or send recyclable activities, we always follow the 3R ­principle: ­waste to a landfill. And if you leave the light reduce, reuse, recycle. Our CASA team has on in your office for too long, you can be launched several programmes and we sure that someone will call your attention or measure, discuss and seek to continuously simply turn it off!” The great safety ­performance of the site is genuine teamwork. to practice onsibility in Putting resp ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IS PROVEN PRACTICE AND GOES WITHOUT SAYING // We observe the 3R principle: reduce, reuse, recycle! // Waste is avoided and reduced // Palettes, cardboard, plastic, glass and paper are separated and sent for recycling // Drums and other containers are cleaned and reused several times // Water and energy consumption is reduced The CASA standards for quality, safety, health employees learn how to safely take ­de­livery of, and environmental protection are not just store and use the chemical products s­ upplied an internal matter. They are passed on to by Brenntag. In addition, the Brenntag experts ­customers, because in Latin A ­ merica, as also advise their customers on compliance is the case worldwide at Brenntag, the issues, such as when there are regulatory ­principle of “Safety first!” extends ­beyond the require­ments for a chemical product or a specompany’s own boundaries. For ­example, the cial handling permits. sales m ­ anager coordinates c­ ustomer visits to the site with the CASA Team. Customers’ OPEN COMMUNICATION WITH THE NEIGHBOURS Another reason why acting with responsi­ The company has therefore d ­ eliberately bility is such an important issue for Brenntag ­decided to engage in transparent communi­ in Santiago is that the site is right next to a cation and active ­d ialogue with them. residential area – which starts immediately Brenntag is surrounded by ­fences instead on the other side of Avenida Lo Espejo. That of walls so that everyone can see what is was not always the case. Over the decades, happening on the grounds. Marco says, “We the houses have edged their way closer to have nothing to hide.” the industrial zone. They are small, simple houses with high walls, standing densely. Meanwhile, the day is slowly drawing to a Brenntag cultivates its relationship with close at Brenntag – a day when, despite the the neighbourhood. There is a project in usual challenges, everything went accorplace with the school three streets away that ding to plan; a good day, in other words. For enables the company to teach the students Marco, it is a priority to ensure that every­ about handling chemicals and provides one from his chosen family goes home with them with an insight into the world of work a smile and – most importantly for him – via internships and site visits. Once a year, unhurt. One last truck enters the site. The an emergency drill takes place, which the driver, no doubt, is a hero to his son, just as neighbours are also i­nvited to. The residents Marco’s father once was. Unload. Clear up. were initially sceptical and worried about Lock up. Home. ­living right next to a chemical distributor. on Vesib rant ility woin rtu tong prac lebe ticn e Putting resp BRENNTAG ENGAGES IN TRANSPARENT ­COMMUNICATION AND ACTIVE ­DIALOGUE WITH THE NEIGHBOURHOOD. “WE HAVE NOTHING TO HIDE.” Marco Riquelme FURTHER INFORMATION Want to learn more about Marco Riquelme? You can find his interview and video at www.brenntag.com/marcoriquelme 30 SAFETY ACCEPTING NO COMPROMISES Safety is of paramount importance at Brenntag and is part of our corporate strategy. “We are the safest chemical distributor” For information on – this is the primary objective of our corporate vision. WorldBrenntag’s CORPORATE VISION, please see wide, we operate in accordance with the “Safety First” principle page 44 of Brenntag’s as our most important company value. This applies both to the 2017 Annual Report. safety and health of our employees, as well as to product safety and environmental protection. We are bound by the highest standards in the industry and adopt policies which often exceed statutory requirements. We are working continuously to further improve safety within our company. We invest in our infrastructure and train our employees with this goal in mind. Our goal is to achieve a Group accident rate LTIR1Day of below 1.0 by 2020. NFB HSE STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Brenntag has implemented a global health, safety and environment (HSE) strategy. This encapsulates our principles in the areas of safety, product stewardship, the environment, adherence to laws (compliance) and quality. The global strategy is implemented in the regions as part of their own HSE programmes. Our HSE manuals define processes, procedures and measures that are implemented at our regional sites. Brenntag’s global business operations and highly diversified customer and supplier structure subject the company to a diverse range of operating conditions (legislation, cultures, industry standards and other demands). In order to fulfil the resulting requirements as effectively as possible, Brenntag adopts a predominantly decentralized approach to its HSE management. The regional HSE organizations are incorporated into the existing company structures. They encompass officers at the company’s sites and various teams, e.g. at national and regional level. The operations and HSE managers responsible at regional level, together with the central Corporate Health, Safety & Environment department, form Brenntag’s Global HSE Team. The team develops and coordinates globally applicable policies, programmes and other activities and regularly shares its experiences. The chairman of the team reports to the Board ﻿ MUTUAL INTERESTS: In November 2017, Brenntag UK & Ireland invited ­customers, suppliers and other experts in the supply chain to its first ever “Safety Day” to discuss aspects of safety in chemical distribution and related fields as well as to exchange experiences. HSE AT BRENNTAG: OUR APPROACH COMMITMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF OUR RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMME Product stewardship Occupational health Comprehensive protection of and product safety and safety, including the environment (air, water, transportation soil, raw materials and waste) THE BRENNTAG APPROACH SAFETY AND A SAFETY HSE PROGRAMMES CLEAR GUIDELINES APPROPRIATE REGULAR INTERNAL CULTURE AROUND AND REGULAR AND PROCEDURES TECHNOLOGY AND EXTERNAL THE WORLD TRAINING REPORTING BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 32 NFB of Management of Brenntag AG once a month. In order to NFB unit or country is responsible for definfurther deepen their working relationship, a Board of Maning processes, procedures and measures agement member has also been taking part in the Global HSE in accordance with local regulations and Team’s regular phone conferences and its annual meeting taking account of local requirements. since the end of 2017. Compliance with the HSE programme is All of this has created a global network of HSE managers and reviewed through regular internal and teams at the various levels within Brenntag. These experts external audits. The decision on the freregularly share their experiences in their teams, develop quency of these audits depends on varmeasures to remedy identified deficits and work together ious factors, such as the risk potential on further improving the company’s safety culture. Decisions being assessed, legal regulations and taken by the teams are then incorporated into the regulations customer requirements. and programmes within the respective organization in a suit­ able format. The local management in the respective company HSE ORGANIZATION AT BRENNTAG BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Chairman Operations and HSE managers of the regions Corporate Health, Safety & (North America, Latin America, Environment department GLOBAL HSE TEAM EMEA, Asia Pacific) GLOBAL HSE TEAM Regular exchange Formation of NFB Brenntag manages HSE data in various databases at regional Brenntag has implemented various level and also forwards them to the company’s central HSE management systems in order to endepartment. Working together with external experts, the ensure its compliance with applicable vironmental risks including historical data are continuously HSE standards. Our performance is examined and evaluated at each site. This allows conclusions also regularly assessed and certified by For information on to be drawn about potential contamination, among other ­independent third parties. the ENVIRONMENTAL things. This information is collated in an environmental da­PROVISIONS, see page 160 f. of Brenntag’s tabase and serves as a basis for the environmental provisions 2017 Annual Report. which are determined annually. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 SAFETY﻿ 33 Certified and assessed operating ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 SQAS-ESAD2) in metal IBCs as standard practice in locations1) (Europe) many countries, special plastic IBCs are abs. in %1) abs. in %1) abs. in % also permitted in Europe and are widely used in the industry. Several years ago, 2013 108 28 59 17 74 69 Brenntag decided to use only metal IBCs 2014 102 26 61 17 73 69 for non-conductible flammable liquids 2015 105 26 59 17 78 73 in Europe, as we consider them to be 2016 108 27 67 19 80 77 safer. Even though these IBCs are asso2017 109 26 65 17 72 71 ciated with higher costs and increased 1) The percentage figures for ISO 14001 include purely sales-based locations as well logistics, prompting concerns among as warehouse locations. The OHSAS 18001 figures exclusively refer to warehouse locations. some customers, we completed the transition phase in the year under review 2) SQAS-ESAD (Safety and Quality Assessment System, European Single Assessment ­Document) is a catalogue featuring more than 500 detailed questions on the handling with the exception of a small number of of chemicals. It is intended to provide a uniform assessment of the HSE and quality countries. Plastic IBCs may now only be management system of chemical distributors and is associated with the Responsible Care/Responsible Distribution industry initiative. used for these liquids in exceptional ­circumstances where there is a reason To ensure effective chemicals management, data that are necNFB for doing so. essary for the safe handling of our products during storage, transport and within the supply chain are stored in central The following aspects and levels of prodatabases at Brenntag. In Europe, for example, a central SAPcess safety are covered: based system is used for this purpose, making it possible to implement relevant changes to European legislation in all // Use of suitable equipment countries at the same time and provide employees with ac// Work instructions on how to use the cess to them. Since 2017, all European companies have been equipment correctly/safely and how connected to this database. to perform the process // Suitable technical and organizaPROCESS SAFETY tional safety measures that help to Process safety measures depend on the particular type of control process risks and prevent process and the risks associated with it. Many requirements errors are regulated by local legislation and industry standards, // Regular reviews (inspections, audits) ­although regulations often vary widely from country to coun// Regular checks of whether the try. If Brenntag considers these regulations to be insufficient, ­specified inspections, audits and we establish our own more stringent measures, which are reviews have been conducted as defined in our HSE manuals. Selecting suitable containers – scheduled and corrective measures known as intermediate bulk containers (IBCs) – for flammable have been implemented liquids is one example of this. While these liquids are filled EXEMPLARY: David Garner (second from left), Chairman of the Global HSE Team at Brenntag and Senior Vice President Operations Brenntag North America, was granted the NACD’s prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award in November 2017. In granting the award, the US National Association of Chemical Distributors rewarded his many years of exceptional work in the area of occupational safety. As a proven expert, mentor and trainer, David Garner has been involved in developing programmes and systems during his career and played a significant part in improving the safety culture within the industry. 34 For example, internal audits in North America and Europe NFB occupational safety within our company. in the year under review found the fittings and condition of Adherence to these policies is verified pallet racks to be poor. As a result, guidelines on safe storage and documented by external assessors. racks were drawn up in both regions. The racks are now being retrofitted as part of a multi-stage plan. Brenntag has also specified that all operating companies join the RC/RD proNFB PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SAFETY gramme. Due to the fact that an RC/RD Brenntag takes appropriate measures to ensure the proper hanprogramme is not offered by national dling of our products. These measures include procurement, organizations in every country in which packaging, classification and labelling, handling, storage and Brenntag operates, programmes have transportation. We produce product dossiers and safety instrucbeen developed and existing processes tions and see to disposal. We act in accordance with the apoptimized in the individual regions to plicable standards and regulations and also cooperate closely verify internally that the guidelines in with the industry’s national and regional umbrella associations force in the relevant countries are adwhich our national organizations belong to. hered to. In this way, Brenntag companies play their part in the global obligaRESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION: For many tion towards Responsible Care. years now, Brenntag has taken part in the Responsible Care/­Responsible Distribution (RC/RD) programme of the Brenntag’s high standards in process Inter­national Chemical Trade Association (ICTA). As such, safety and product responsibility conwe implement the eight guiding principles laid down in this tinuously earn the company external global programme covering the following areas: recognition. In March 2017, three locations in North America were rewarded Since 2002 Brenntag has been participating in // Legal requirements for their exemplary safety performance the chemical industry’s // Management of risk in the supply chain for chlor-alkali prod“Responsible Care” programme. // Policies and documentation ucts. The Chlorine Institute, a national // Provision of information industry association, grants its Diamond // Training Level award to sites which have record// Emergency response ed zero accidents or incidents and zero // Ongoing improvements environmental releases over a period of // Community interaction five years. The policies of the RC/RD programme have been incorporated into our HSE strategy and programmes and therefore play a key part in the safe handling of chemical products and, as a result, in the protection of soil, air and water as well as RECOGNITION: In 2017, Brenntag EMEA awarded our French site in Andance the gold “Safety First Award” for its special commitment to implementing safe behaviour in everyday activities. SAFETY﻿ 35 NFB and also by external experts, both in the NFB Year1) Proportion of Brenntag legal entities2) participating in the RC/RD programme form of face-to-face events as well as abs. in % digit­ally. For example, prior to Brenntag’s relocation to its new headquarters in 2013 94 70 ­Essen, employees were given training on 2014 92 76 the potential risks ­during such a move 2015 108 76 – such as with clearing and packing up. 2016 113 76 In addition, they were familiarized ex2017 114 76 tensively with the safety facilities and 1) Only the values for 2017 quoted in the key figures are part of the NFB. regulations in the new building. 2) These data do not include pure sales and service entities with a revenue of under 100,000 EUR as well as acquired entities which, as at December 31, 2017, have Brenntag is also continuously investing been part of the Brenntag Group for less than a year. in its equipment and infrastructure so REACH: Since June 1, 2007, regulation (EU) No. 1907/2006 as to optimize plant safety and work concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and processes at its sites and thus further Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) has formed the European minimize safety risks and sources of aclegal framework for the safe handling of chemicals in order cidents. For example, only intermediate to protect the environment and human health. The regubulk containers (IBCs) that are made of lation prescribes mandatory provisions for the production, metal are used for non-conductive flamimport, handling and use of chemical substances as they are mable liquids in almost all countries in and when mixed. One of the cornerstones of REACH is the the EMEA region. These are more expenmandatory registration on the part of manufacturers and sive than plastic IBCs, which are also perimporters. Brenntag fulfilled its obligation to register in its mitted, but they significantly reduce the area of responsibility before the required deadline. The final danger of electrostatic discharging. registration deadline is the end of May 2018. ACCIDENT REPORTING: Accidents at work, Our REACH-trained product and sales managers are able near misses and similar o ­ ccurrences to proficiently address the wishes of our suppliers and are recorded and evaluated centrally customers: ­according to a standardized system. Any important conclusions are commu// E nsuring a REACH-compliant supply and usage system nicated throughout our organization. // Safeguarding optimal communication within the Furthermore, the findings and ­measures ­supply chain derived from these are in­corporated into // Support in relation to many REACH-related issues the global HSE guidelines, regional HSE // Helping to ensure that imported substances are manuals and prevention and training REACH-compliant measures. For example, a new guide// Identifying alternative substances line for selecting and training temporary employees was introduced for OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY NFB Brenntag EMEA at the start of 2017 as Our top priority is to ensure the safety of our employees and a result of experiences in recent years. to protect their health. Brenntag continually works towards Although it is perhaps too early to talk improving the company’s safety culture and takes necessary about a sustainable improvement, we and appropriate measures to prevent accidents and incidents. can r­ eport that accidents resulting in lost work days among temporary employees TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT: Regular training for our employwere halved in 2017. At the same time, ees is important in order to raise their awareness of potential the total number of incidents reported hazards and to enable them to work safely. This training goes in the third quarter of 2017 was signifiabove and beyond the statutory requirements and ranges cantly lower compared to previous years. from safety instruction for new employees to comprehensive A relatively high number of temporary training measures that are specially tailored for the work sitemployees work for the company in the uation and the risk potential of specific occupational groups third quarter, as the holiday period in or individual employees. Training is given by HSE managers Europe occurs during this time. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 36 GROUP ACCIDENT RATE1) NFB A closer analysis of the accidents shows LTIR1DAY2) that slips/trips/falls, chemical burns, accidents involving vehicles and acci2.0 dents involving equipment/tools are 1.9 the most common causes of injuries 1.7 1.6 1.5 with ­absences from work at Brenntag. Our measures are therefore focused on ­making improvements here. With regard to chemical burns in particular, which are an industry-specific injury, a wide range of measures has enabled us to reduce the number of incidents Group-wide by 71% between 2010 and 2017. Unfortunately, we saw a significant increase in accidents involving 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 tools and equipment in 2017, particularly in the EMEA region. In almost all 1) Only the values for 2017 quoted in the key figures are part of the NFB. cases, the accidents were not caused by 2) LTIR1Day (Lost Time Injury Rate): number of industrial accidents resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per one million working hours faulty equipment but rather by a lack of attention, i­ncorrect behaviour or the use of an incorrect tool. As an ­immediate This ongoing process of improvement has enabled us to measure to ­remedy this, Brenntag EMEA steadily reduce the number of reportable industrial accidents increased the n ­ umber of unannounced within the Group, resulting in a reduction of 66% in the Group audits by senior manage­ment. Although accident rate between 2010 and 2016 to a value of 1.5. We the number of injuries resulting from must report that there was a slight increase again in 2017 slips/trips/falls has been more than to 1.7. However, we see no indication of a sustained trend halved since 2010 – through v­ arious reversal here and expect to return to our path of continuous training measures, for ­example – they improvement. are still one of the most frequent causes of accidents. As a result, they ­continue CAUSES FOR LOST TIME INJURIES 2017 to be a focal point of the measures Ausfalltage (IN %) which are aimed at employee behaviour. 10 25 Accidents involving vehicles (forklifts, 12 trucks, cars, motorbikes) have also come under the spotlight. Although the number of incidents has remained relatively constant over the years, they are now also proportionally among the most frequent causes of injuries. Since accidents involving vehicles can also have severe consequences, extensive preventative 8 programmes have been established in the Brenntag regions. The focus ­ranges from driving safety training, includ15 ing for sales employees, to the use of ­devices to analyze d ­ riving in trucks, to 31 improved road ­signage for works transport and for pedestrians at our sites.  lips, trips, falls S Manual handling Since July 2017, for ­example, more Chemical burns V  ehicles, forklifts Facilities, equipment, tools Other than 1,200 employees in 20 ­countries within the EMEA region perform online ­training each quarter on a topic related to safe driving. Brenntag North America has had particularly good ­experiences with a system for monitoring driving behaviour and traffic using dashboard BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 SAFETY﻿ 37 cameras. If necessary, drivers then discuss critical situations PRACTICAL EXAMPLES and unsafe behaviour with their direct managers using video clips. The possibility of introducing the system in other reBelow are a number of practical examgions is currently being examined. At Brenntag EMEA, special ples and highlights from our regions, endangerment analyses for internal on-site transport were giving an insight into the BEST practices conducted in 2017. Where necessary, measures were specified and safety culture at Brenntag: for 2018 and the resulting investments budgeted for. // A  s part of the global “Hold the Brenntag’s primary objective is to prevent all types of acciHandrail” campaign, the Brenntag dents and incidents. That is why rather than resting on our regions and countries have adopted laurels, we continually endeavour to further improve our numerous measures and launched safety culture. initiatives to raise awareness among employees on the safe use of stairs BEST PROGRAMME: A key element of our efforts to increase and the dangers of falling and safety is the global Brenntag Enhanced Safety Thinking tripping on stairs, as avoidable (BEST) programme. It focuses on the safety behaviour of accidents repeatedly occur in this Brenntag employees at all levels within the company, which area. In North America, for example, is the primary cause of accidents in more than 80% of ­cases. special training was provided, and in ­Various programmes and measures were implemented in the Latin America, the stairs at all sites Brenntag regions and national organizations in the year under were fitted with anti-slip surfaces. In review to promote safe behaviour and to correct dangerous Asia Pacific, signs asking people to behaviour. These centre on regular and extensive communiuse the handrail were mounted on a cation, greater involvement and motivation of employees and gradual basis in offices and wareincreased visibility of exemplary safety within the company. houses, and in Europe, innovative initiatives, such as a 3D design in In addition, the BEST philosophy is to be expanded ­beyond front of the company headquarters, occupational safety to the personal environment of were used to attract people’s attenBrenntag employees. The Latin and North America regions tion (page 38). had positive experiences in the year under review with the // Brenntag Asia Pacific has “­personalization of safety”, and Brenntag’s Global HSE Team ­continuously promoted its HSE was able to draw on this while developing the BEST – ­Personal performance for ensuring that ­Safety Action Plan (PSAP). As of the start of 2018, all Brenntag the ­organization is able to reach ­employees worldwide are asked to create a PSAP in which the ­targets of zero ­accident they list risks that they encounter daily while at work as well and ­sustainable ­development. as in their personal lives. They discuss these situations with ­Consequently, HSE is an important their managers and, based on this, they work together to part in the integration process for develop and subsequently review an individual plan with mergers and acquisitions. In 2017, measures to prevent accidents and incidents. The managers the employees of a newly ­acquired have been given training on this issue. Board of Management site in South Korea received members and senior managers present their own personal ­appropriate safety training relating plans in videos so that employees can learn about this new to Brenntag’s product ­stewardship, instrument for our safety culture. Employees are also invited fire ­prevention, first aid and to present their PSAPs in a video. ­cardiopulmonary resuscitation. // For many years, Brenntag EMEA has granted the Safety First Award to sites that performed particularly well with regard to safety in the financial year under review. The awarding process has been revised and now focuses more on the development and implementation of initia­tives and programmes which foster a BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 38 TAKE A LOOK: Some innovative initiatives that were part of the global “Hold the Handrail” campaign, such as a 3D design in front of the company headquarters, generated a great deal of attention. strong safety culture in line with the BEST behaviour Polish sites in Zgierz and Jankowstandards. In the year under review, the Gold Award went ice, which have a ­combined ­total to the Andance site in France for its particular commitof 170 employees, celebrated five ment to implement safe behaviour in everyday activities. and an ­impressive ten years of being // Individual Brenntag locations and companies frequently LTI-free. dedicate an entire day to the issue of safety. In January // In Latin America, a number of and February 2017, Brenntag France’s Safety Day was sites reached significant safety held for the seventh time in Paris and Lyon and featured milestones in the course of the presentations, workshops and exercises on the issue year. The Ambato site, e.g., in of safety culture and best practice within the company. Ecuador celebrated 10,000 days CASA is the name of The CASA Day took place at all Brenntag Latin A ­ merica without an accident-related work the HSE programme at locations in April 2017 and included a diverse range absence, the warehouse in Santo Brenntag Latin America and stands for quality of ­activities, workshops, games and exercises, with Tomás de Castilla, Guatemala, and (CALIDAD), safety and ­customers, suppliers and service providers also involved Brenntag B ­ olivia both 6,000 days health (SEGURIDAD & in addition to the families of employees. and Brenntag Ecuador in Machala SALUD) and the environment (MEDIO 5,000 days. AMBIENTE). The effectiveness of the various measures is reflected in the // Special recognition goes to the successes celebrated by Brenntag in 2017: Querétaro site of Brenntag Mexico and the Marine Terminal in Puerto // A  t 33 of the 48 Brenntag sites in Europe with more than Cortés, Honduras. In 2017, both 40 employees, not a single lost time injury (LTI) was Latin American locations have cele­recorded in the year under review. Special successes brated the exceptional achievement were celebrated in February 2017 by the Rotterdam site of 10 years without accident-related with 65 employees and in August 2017 by the Munich work absences. site with 49 employees, both of which recorded five years without a lost time injury. In June 2017, Brenntag’s BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION USING RESOURCES WISELY Protecting the environment has always been of importance ENERGY NFB to Brenntag. As part of our business activities, we consume We calculate our consumption of rewater, electricity and different types of fuel, while producing sources on the basis of the data which waste, waste water and various emissions. Moreover, as a we collect through our HSE programmes. chemical distributor we deal with products that could damIn 2015, Brenntag implemented Groupage the environment if not handled with the necessary care. wide energy reporting in order to make All around the world we aim to protect resources and use its own energy consumption and assothem optimally, and to minimize the impact that our business ciated CO2 emissions more transparent. activities have on the soil, water and air. At the same time, Since 2016, we have reported consoliBrenntag supports its customers with sustainable solutions dated data for the Group. Sites’ energy and helps to preserve the environment with ecologically efconsumption data are collected quarterly ficient products, processes and services. and are compiled and evaluated ­centrally by Brenntag’s sustainability coordinator. When it comes to protecting the environment and climate, NFB This data enables us to identify energy-­ Brenntag also acts in accordance with the “Safety First” prinsaving potential. Our target is to reciple and has incorporated the fundamental aspects of its duce the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions ­activities into its global HSE strategy. Brenntag’s sites around (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) For Brenntag’s HSE STRATEGY and the world implement numerous environmental protection by 6% by 2020 compared to 2016. In the ­organization, please and efficiency measures in the context of local and ­regional ­reporting year, we came one major step see the Safety chapter on page 30. outline conditions and legislative requirements, tailored closer to achieving this goal. The Group to their individual activities. These internal measures focus managed to reduce its CO2 emissions on energy and water consumption, the protection of soil, (per thousand warehouse tonnes of water and air, waste reduction, and transport and fleet goods sold) by around 2.5% compared management. to the previous year. Almost all regions contributed to this reduction, but it was Brenntag North America, the Group’s largest ­energy ­consumer, that achieved the highest results. “GREEN” HEADQUARTERS: The House of Elements, Brenntag’s new headquarters in Essen, Germany, was awarded the LEED Gold Certificate, which attests to sustainable building. Some of the aspects considered are energy and resource efficiency, indoor temperature, the emission of pollutants and accessibility using public transport. 40 NFB ENERGY CONSUMPTION BRENNTAG GROUP1) PRACTICAL EXAMPLES 20172) 20163) In the year under review, the Philadelphia, Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 Pennsylvania, site of Brenntag ­Specialties warehouse warehouse in the USA was awarded an Energy Star tonnes of tonnes of goods sold goods sold environmental certificate from the USA’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Electricity This successful certification is mainly at(in MWh) 151,207 16.4 145,886 16.5 tributable to the completion of two comGas (in MWh) 155,544 16.6 162,801 18.4 prehensive efficiency measures which Diesel (in have been gradually implemented at the 1,000 litres) 36,787 4.0 35,723 4.0 site’s warehouse since 2013. First of all, Petrol (in energy-saving fluorescent lighting with 1,000 litres) 7,001 0.8 6,756 0.8 motion sensor activation was introduced. Other 4) (in Subsequently, in 2016 a modern boiler 1,000 litres) 4,175 0.5 4,106 0.5 system for the site’s heated areas and storage tanks was installed which conCO2 EMISSIONS5) BRENNTAG GROUP1) siderably reduced energy consumption thanks to its high level of efficiency. These 20172) 20163) measures have reduced greenhouse gas Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope emissions by almost 28% on 2012 levels 1+2 1+2 and ­resulted in an improve­ment in the company’s Energy Star rating from 66 to Total (in tonnes) 150,472 66,085 216,557 148,851 63,755 212,606 83 points in July 2017. An ­on-site audit Electricity – 66,085 – – 63,755 – performed by an independent a ­ uditor Gas 28,068 – – 29,955 – – ­finally ­confirmed that the site had ­qualified for this certificate. Diesel 97,670 – – 94,845 – – Petrol 16,040 – – 15,478 – – After an energy audit at its Trezzano site Other 4) 8,694 – – 8,573 – – at the end of 2015, Brenntag Italy began Per 1,000 warehouse to implement various measures with the tonnes of goal of reducing energy consumption goods sold and improving its energy management. (in tonnes) 16.3 7.2 23.5 16.9 7.2 24.1 In the year under review, it focused Electricity – 7.2 – – 7.2 – on investments in its vehicle fleet: five Gas 3.0 – – 3.4 – – ­diesel trucks were replaced with new Diesel 10.6 – – 10.7 – – ­hybrid­vehicles, delivering fuel savings Petrol 1.7 – – 1.8 – – of around 10%. Its fleet of electric forklift Other 4) 0.9 – – 1.0 – – trucks now includes a total of 14 vehicles 1) This data does not include the following operating units: Brenntag ­International with energy recovery systems. Energy ­Chemicals, J.A.M Group, Berlin Windward Group and all units in Africa and the consumption has thus been r­ educed by ­Middle East. 7% on average. In 2018, internal and 2) Only the values for 2017 quoted in the key figures are part of the NFB. ­external lighting will be assessed for 3) Following the ongoing improvement of the Group-wide energy reporting, the energy potential savings. consumption rates reported for 2016 were again revised and adjusted. 4)Gas oil, kerosene, propane gas A total of ten company cars were ­replaced 5) CO2 emissions are calculated for electricity on the basis of the respective country-­ at Brenntag Taiwan in the 2017 financial specific factors, in accordance with the Green House Gas Protocol Factors (2012), and for all other energy types on the basis of the energy-specific factors defined in the UK year. This changeover to a petrol-­saving Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2016). model has reduced fuel consumption by more than 1,300 litres and CO2emissions by the equivalent of 3.1 tonnes. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 41 TRANSPORT/FLEET MANAGEMENT headcounts increase or reduce ­water As a distributor, Brenntag maintains its own fleet of vehicles. needs. In addition, water-­intensive proTo keep fuel consumption and harmful emissions to a minicesses, such as h ­ ydrostatic testing of mum, structured transport logistics are used at our sites to new tanks or test operations on fire proavoid unnecessary trips and to make the trips taken by our tection ­systems, also ­occur at ­irregular vehicles as efficient as possible. In regular training courses, ­intervals. Total water ­consumption Brenntag drivers receive instruction on matters such as fuel-­ in the ­reporting period ­increased by conscious driving. around 22% compared to the p ­ revious year. One reason for this was the Many Brenntag companies use telematics systems in order to ­temporarily uncontrolled ­release of optimize the use of their vehicle fleets. They record vehicle ­water due to a defective water ­softening and trip-related data such as fuel consumption, speed and ­system at one of Brenntag’s sites in driving duration. These on-board units directly facilitate safe Chile. This water ­s pillage was only and eco-efficient driving, for example by providing visual and completely stopped over the course of acoustic warning signals for the driver or by displaying vehicle the year, ­following ­substantial ­repairs speed, braking behaviour and engine idling. and ­e xtended mainte­n ance work. Apart from this ­individual ­incident, PRACTICAL the ­m easures ­implemented in the EXAMPLE ­region are paying off. The gradual At two of Brenntag’s sites in China, a transport model is used ­improvement in ­reporting is helping to which operates like a “shuttle bus”. For each site, a route has ­reduce w ­ ater comsumption – according been identified (45 and 100 kilometres in length) which makes to the HSE managers, employees are it possible to serve most of the customers who receive daily ­increasingly aware of the importance of deliveries through a single trip, without the need to return to ­efficient use of resources. Brenntag ­Latin the site. At the two sites together, this routing has delivered America ­expects to be able to report a fuel savings of around 72,000 litres per year. reduction in consumption for 2018. WATER In order to raise further awareness of Brenntag uses water in its business operations, for example to the importance of careful use of n ­ atural produce solutions, to clean pipe systems and to cool or heat ­resources and to achieve a lasting chemicals and tank facilities. Water consumption varies widely change in behaviour, in the year under at Brenntag’s sites and is subject to fluctuations, as it is largely review Brenntag Colombia launched an dependent on the nature and scope of the products handled ­internal communication campaign. With and services provided. In addition, water is needed to operate the ­slogan “I can contribute”, ­employees the buildings and plants, for example in the sanitary facilities were asked to develop creative ideas, or to clean surfaces. ­either on their own or in groups, on how to reduce consumption of water, Brenntag obtains around 90 % of its water from the public water electricity, paper and other materials in supply network. Water consumption is currently not recorded their daily working environment. ­Anyone or consolidated on a Group-wide basis. interested was able to present their idea in a short video and thus motivate others to join in. An annual comparison PRACTICAL of ­consumption levels and the related EXAMPLES expenditure ­directly demonstrates the Brenntag Latin America regularly measures the water success of this campaign. Among other ­consumption at all of its sites as part of its extensive CASA prosavings, the implemented ideas helped to gramme (see graph on page 42). This data enables the ­region reduce total water consumption in 2017 to document, a ­ nalyze and manage the volume and type of at all five of Brenntag’s Colombia sites by consumption over time and to implement various efficienaround 9,800 m3 on the previous year. cy measures. There are ­several reasons for the fluctuations in consumption over time. Changes in the acquisitions and BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 42 BRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA: WATER CONSUMPTION TOTAL PER WAREHOUSE TONNE OF GOOD SOLD (IN MILLIONS OF LITRES) (IN LITRES) Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware Wasserverbrauch total (in Liter) (in Mio. Liter) 94.1 86.0 80.0 81.0 77.0 73.2 70.1 69.3 61.4 57.4 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware (in Liter) NFB PROTECTION OF SOIL, WATER AND AIR areas, double-walled tanks and collection We work continuously on minimizing the environmental imtanks, closed water cycles, multistage pacts of our business activities on the soil, water and air. Our ­water ­purification and treatment proSee the HSE STRATEGY HSE strategy and various measures such as investments in cesses, and modern air and exhaust air AND MANAGEMENT the infrastructure, optimized work procedures and ­employee purification systems. and Product Responsibility and Safety sections qualifications are implemented with a view to identifying of the Safety chapter environmental risks early on and to avoid environmentally In the rare event that chemicals are (pages 30 and 34). ­related incidents. Brenntag’s sites in all of its regions comply released during processing, when with the applicable rules and regulations relating to the pro­being filled in or transferred between tection of the environment as well as our Group’s stringent ­containers or during transportation, internal environmental and safety standards. Brenntag takes the appropriate steps to rectify the p ­ roblem, clean up and dispose With many of Brenntag’s sites having been used industrially of the chemicals as quickly as possible. for decades, including those purchased through acquisitions, Such spillages are recorded, categorized there is historical soil and groundwater contamination at the and evaluated using a standardized sites, which we are combatting with appropriate remediation system. measures. The soil and groundwater situation at all of the sites are reviewed and recorded annually in cooperation with WASTE/RECYCLING ­external partners, and the necessary remediation measures The Brenntag sites have implemented will be ­derived and implemented. Whenever new buildings processes for the handling of waste or plants are constructed or necessary modernization and and also take-back and recycling ­renovation work is undertaken, environmental protection issues ­systems for various types of ­packaging are ­considered and reflected both in terms of the construction and c­ ontainers, each in line with the approach and plant engineering. site’s type and volume of business. As part of this, we maintain a close All of Brenntag’s sites implement suitable environmental ­dialogue with manufacturers and with protection measures that vary in their form and extent, dethe ­national ­umbrella associations of pending on the work performed at the site, the legal require­chemical ­dealers, with the common goal ments in the country and the site’s construction history. Basic of ­reducing the volume of waste in the ­measures include multilayer soil protection in warehousing industry and increasing recycling rates. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 43 Brenntag also ensures that unnecessary waste is avoided right As an expert in the field of water treatfrom the outset and that the volume of waste is reduced by ment, Brenntag Mid-South in the USA giving its employees intensive and regular training in the supports its c­ ustomers in this industry handling, storage and transportation of chemical products. with a special product portfolio as well as providing technical services. For inSUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS stance, the company has a ­ ssembled Brenntag’s employees have in-depth expertise in the fields a technical ­service team to assist a of chemicals, components, procedures, processes and apgrowing c­ ustomer base in the environplication technologies. They are experts on the industries mentally-friendly disposal of residues of individual customers, cooperate closely with the manufrom treatment processes. For this purfacturers and are familiar with applicable safety and quality pose, this team has developed various regulations. Our technicians who work in numerous appli­specialty chemical products, including cation industries assist our customers in developing tailored coagulants, ­flocculants, ­dispersants formulations and advise them on ways to optimize the use and heavy metal precipitants. In v­ arious and handling of the products. ways, they all help to improve the ­cleaning and disposal of contaminated Brenntag also endeavours to continuously add new products process water. to its portfolio which increase efficiency, reduce consumption or decrease environmental impact when applied, thereby For some years now, Brenntag in ­Europe providing sustainable alternatives to conventional products. has been handling the production, In this regard, our goal is to set up pilot projects with ten sales and marketing of Clorious2. This selected key suppliers by 2020 and in doing so become the ­patented, ready-to-use chlorine ­dioxide preferred distributor for sustainable solutions. solution efficiently and sustainably controls microbial contamination in a Brenntag’s expertise and portfolio thus help improve the level wide array of water-based industrial of efficiency within the supply chain and support its customers’ processes. Clorious2 has a favourable optimized use of resources and improved productivity. ­environmental footprint as its usage does not result in the formation of PRACTICAL harmful by-products like c­ hlorinated EXAMPLES ­organic compounds (“green ­chemistry”). Surface engineering and finishing is a relevant topic in many It offers many industries unprecedented sectors, such as the automotive, aviation and aerospace inoptions for environmentally-­friendly dustries where properties such as corrosion protection, paint ­water treatment. In the year under adhesion and wear resistance are key. Surface engineering review, Brenntag reported marketing is also important in the housing industry for the finishing success in the food & beverages and of household appliances, faucets or televisions. These are corrugated board industries: Brenntag chemically highly intensive processes which are therefore GmbH is supplying Clorious2 to a wellsubject to a large number of environmental restrictions. known German wine and champagne This includes the impact on water, waste water and sludge. producer for treating the drinking water SMART SOLUTION: The “­liquid pool cover” Heatsavr™, distributed by Brenntag UK & Ireland, was awarded the Waterwise Efficiency Product Award. Heatsavr™ is a biologically decomposable fluid which forms a protective layer on the surface of swimming pools and thus slows evaporation. 44 UMWELTSCHUTZ EXPERTISE: All over the world, Brenntag serves customers in the field of water treatment with an extensive product portfolio as well as providing technical support. Our experts develop tailored formulations in special application laboratories. Facilities which opened in the year under review included a new water treatment application laboratory in Poland. For example, the laboratory examines wastewater or sludge and selects appropriate treatment technology based on the products offered by Brenntag. that it uses. Brenntag UK & Ireland are offering this product to of indigenous peoples. Through the leading corrugated board companies as a concept to improve ­enhanced coordination on a global level, process hygiene and to enable the industry to reuse wasteBrenntag paves the way for integrating water, thereby assisting them to meet zero discharge targets. sustainably produced palm oil products in the supply chain. In March 2017, the “liquid pool cover” Heatsavr™ distributed by Brenntag UK & Ireland was awarded the ­Water Efficiency Brenntag also offers sustainably ­produced ­Product Award in the “Industrial & Business Use” c­ ategory. products in a further area: in April 2017, With this award, the independent British organization Brenntag Polska successfully ­completed ­Waterwise recognizes designers and businesses which are the certification process for ­trading making intensive efforts in the development and marketing of of UTZ-certified cocoa and ­chocolate ­water-saving products and services. Heatsavr™ is a b ­ iologically ­products. This certification covers the decomposable fluid which forms a protective layer on the entire supply chain, from the producer surface of swimming pools and thus slows evaporation. This and the initial purchaser to the manumeans that less water top-up is required and less ­energy facturer of the end product. Brenntag for heating. It also brings down the costs for dealing with customers can thus trust in the fact ­humidity and air heat in indoor pools. For instance, one that the ­certified products ­purchased at ­swimming pool operator has been able to save more than Brenntag – such as cocoa powder, c­ ocoa 1,000 cubic metres of water per year by using Heatsavr™. butter and paste and various chocolates Brenntag is now supplying this product to a large number – are not only of the h ­ ighest q­ uality but of public swimming pools, schools, universities and hotels have also been produced with respect throughout the UK and is also exclusively distributing it in to the needs of people and the environmany other European countries. ment. As well as Brenntag Polska, our companies in C ­ roatia and Lithuania are In the year under review, the global RSPO membership of also UTZ-certified. Brenntag Holding GmbH was approved on behalf of all Brenntag subsidiaries that trade palm oil products. At the end of 2017, the group membership included some 40 Brenntag companies worldwide. The non-profit ­organization Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is committed to sustainable palm oil production and certifies producers and dealers of palm oil and palm oil products which comply with certain environmental protection and social standards, ­including ­conservation of the rainforests and the protection BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017  SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY﻿ 45 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVING MORE TOGETHER Safety and quality are key factors for success in the ­chemical inIn selecting new suppliers and e ­ valuating dustry. They can only be ensured through the close c­ ooperation existing supplier relationships, both ecoof all parties along the supply and value chain. nomic and quality criteria and issues of environmental protection and safety, As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag labour and social standards as well as serves as an important link between the manufacturers of compliance and governance are relevant chemical products and the companies that process these for Brenntag. products. We maintain a close and ongoing dialogue with our suppliers and customers through our regional and global A project team has taken charge of adNFB procurement and distribution organizations as well as our vancing the issue of sustainable procureHSE structures. The majority of these business relationships ment within our international corporate and partnerships go back many years. structures. The team consists of a ­steering committee comprising ­employees with Brenntag has set itself the goal of monitoring its own supply NFB strategic and ­operational experience, chain more closely with regard to the various sustainability Brenntag’s sustaina­bility coordinator and aspects and gradually making it more sustainable. Among our representatives from the four Brenntag sustainability targets for 2020, we aim to analyze 50% of our regions and from the Brenntag Global total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustainability assessments Sourcing Organization. The sustainability or audits as part of our membership of the “Together for coordinator regularly reports on this issue Sustainability” initiative. to Brenntag AG’s Board of Management. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT: Brenntag Brenntag’s purchasing organizations have over 1,000 em­ has drawn up a code of conduct specifyployees globally, including local and regional ­purchasing ing what we expect of our suppliers in teams, ­specialists in sourcing chemical products from Asia, the areas mentioned. The code is based and ­product managers for specific chemicals and ­customer on the principles of the United Nations ­industries. These employees are in contact with several Global Compact, the chemical industry’s ­thousand ­suppliers worldwide. As a trading company, ­business global Responsible Care programme and relationships with suppliers have a direct influence on the Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct ­product portfolio and are therefore a key ­differentiation point and Ethics. It can be found on the comfor distributors. These relationships are often more ­accurately pany’s website and is therefore available described as sales partner­ships rather than conventional to all suppliers. In order to verify compli­purchasing relationships. For this reason, Brenntag maintains ance with the code of conduct, we invite ­regular, close communication with its suppliers. At various selected suppliers to undergo a sustain­levels throughout the Group, there are standardized proability assessment or audit. cesses in place for relationship management with suppliers. ­Supplier relationships are a management issue at all levels of our ­company and a key element of strategic decision-making. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 46 NFB SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS: Within the We are regularly asked to document scope of its membership of the “Together for Sustainability” our sustainability performance. We are (TfS) industry initiative, Brenntag requires a certain number pleased to respond to these needs by of its suppliers to undergo sustainability assessments every making our principles and activities year. We thereby achieve greater transparency in relation to transparent and measurable in various our suppliers’ sustainability performance and are able to betways. As well as our annual sustainater consider sustainability issues in our purchasing decisions. bility report, this also includes our own regular EcoVadis assessment as well as We work together here with EcoVadis, which is a leading issue-specific audits at our locations. ­provider of sustainability assessments and well established in the chemical industry. EcoVadis evaluates companies in terms ECOVADIS SCORE: In its most recent Ecoof four categories: environmental protection, labour ­practices, Vadis assessment in October 2016, the fair business practices and sustainable procurement. On the Brenntag Group achieved a score of 66 basis of the responses provided in a comprehensive online points, thereby improving to gold staquestionnaire and on the accompanying documentation, Ecotus (Gold Recognition Level). This result Vadis awards scoring points and produces a detailed profile ranks us among the top companies in of strengths and weaknesses. Brenntag reviews the findings our industry as well as among the top and, based on its suppliers’ performance, requires them to suppliers assessed overall by EcoVadis make improvements or to undergo a supplementary audit. across all industry categories. As specified in our sustainability targets (see 168 suppliers completed the assessment programme between page 7), we will endeavour to maintain its launch in 2015 and the end of 2017. In eight cases, a soour gold status and our score. A new called “Corrective Action Plan” was initiated based on the assessment is planned for 2018. findings of the assessment. The suppliers now have to provide further information on the relevant points and/or implement SAFETY DATA SHEETS: As a distributor, remedial measures within a certain period of time. Two of the Brenntag plays a major role in safesuppliers were found to have already improved their sustainguarding the seamless flow of informaability performance following a re-assessment. tion along the supply chain and must ensure complete product documentaBy obtaining full membership of the TfS initiative, Brenntag tion. Together with every product sold, also gained access to the results of all the assessments perBrenntag therefore sends its customers See the “TOGETHER formed by other TfS member companies on their suppliers. safety data sheets that contain specific FOR SUSTAINABILITY” Together with these assessments performed by other TfS and detailed information on the approsection of this chapter on page 48. member companies on Brenntag’s suppliers, Brenntag was priate and safe handling of the chemable to analyze around 64% of its chemical spend with regard ical in question. We thereby make a to sustainability criteria by the end of 2017. This means that very concrete contribution to greater we have already achieved our target of 50% by 2020. Brenntag transparency and safety in the supply will set a new target in the area of sustainable procurement chain. In 2017, Brenntag EMEA alone during 2018. sent a good 450,000 safety data sheets to customers. Since 2015, around 150 Brenntag purchasing staff have also undergone training covering the assessment procedure and SUPPLY CHAIN SAFETY: As a conscienthereby also sustainability issues, enabling them to assist and tious participant in the value chain, to advise their suppliers during the review process. Brenntag does all that it can to promote increased safety for all parties involved. BRENNTAG AS A SUPPLIER For this reason, we regularly incorporate For a number of years now, Brenntag has registered an inour customers and suppliers into our creasing demand for information on how we deal with sussafety culture. tainability issues – particularly on the part of its customers. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017  SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY﻿ 47 PRACTICAL delivery and perform pre-unloadEXAMPLES ing safety checks for ensuring that // In November 2017, Brenntag UK & Ireland hosted its every filling device, connection, and first ever Safety Day. Joined by customers, suppliers relevant equipment is in good conand key experts in the supply chain, Brenntag set the dition before unloading products. scene for the pertinent topics of the day. Followed by a Any deficits or identified risks are number of interactive workshops and presentations, the addressed with the customer. day covered a diverse range of scenarios, examples and // An initiative in place at Brenntag initiatives on safety issues in chemical distribution and Mid-South in Atlanta, Georgia, the wider environment. Best practices were highlighted, focuses on safety issues outside the the benefits of partnership programmes and industry workplace. Once every quarter, the voluntary initiatives were also discussed. site’s customers receive a news­letter // Brenntag Thailand provided trainings to its customers on safety-related issues that are related to the safe handling of hazardous chemicals – ­specifically not work or business-­ e.g. ammonia – and emergency situations. This does related but rather are concerned not only help to prevent accidents that may happen at with personal safety. These include customers’ premises, but supports to maintain good e.g. a home fire escape plan or relationship with our customers. information on defensive driving. // At Brenntag in Singapore, the managers from commerThe customers have responded very cial, logistics and HSE functions work together to ensure ­positively to this unusual and interthat defined products are delivered and unloaded safely esting form of communication. to customers’ storage areas and tanks. They conduct risk assessments at customers’ premises prior to the first SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AT BRENNTAG SUPPLIERS Suppliers are asked for a Suppliers are asked for Results of conducted Results of conducted sustainability assessment of rating on-site audit by using external EcoVadis assessment sustainability audits company EcoVadis audit companies Results of Brenntag‘s supplier Brenntag: EcoVadis assessment assessments and audits Rating of Brenntag‘s Results of supplier assessments and sustainability performance audits conducted by other TfS members Result of Brenntag‘s EcoVadis assessments CUSTOMERS Activities within the scope of TfS membership Voluntary activities BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 48 NFB TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY As a full member, Brenntag has a seat Brenntag has been involved in the chemical industry’s and voting rights at the general assem“­Together for Sustainability” initiative (TfS) since October 2014 bly, the top decision-making body of and became a full member in October 2016 when it achieved TfS. In addition, Brenntag employees in an EcoVadis score of over 60 points – the first and, to date, only Europe, Asia and the USA are involved www.tfs-initiative.com chemical distributor to do so. in working groups. Together with representatives of the other TfS members, TfS was established in 2011 and now has 20 members. Its goal they are working, for example, to furis to establish a uniform global programme for the responsible ther develop the audit programme, to procurement of goods and services in the chemical industry, to increase awareness of the initiative and achieve transparency in relation to sustainability performance its objectives at events in the industry throughout the supply chain and to make further improveand to convince other suppliers of the ments to its suppliers’ ecological and social standards. For this added value created by the voluntary suspurpose, all TfS members regularly evaluate and review their tainability assessments and audits. Our suppliers by means of a standardized process. This information involvement with TfS provides us with is shared confidentially and used jointly within the network, an opportunity not just to advance the which provides efficiency benefits for every participant. issue of sustainability within the chemical industry’s supply chain but also to learn from the best-practice experiences of the other members and to further professionalize our sustainability approach in the area of supplier management. EXTERNAL TRADE RESTRICTIONS: DUE DILIGENCE ­P­ROCESS AT BRENNTAG As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag Brenntag also fulfils this obligation by must adhere to all applicable foreign trade and customs laws using an automated, IT-based s­ creening and regulations in the countries where we operate. As such, solution. This involves the use of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics stipulates that ­s pecial software to regularly check our employees must observe all applicable restrictions on our c­ ustomers and s­ uppliers against local and international foreign trade, e.g. restrictions on the sanction lists of the U ­ nited Nations, the importation and exportation of certain goods, services the European Union, the USA and and technologies into or out of countries that are subject ­various other countries where Brenntag to sanctions or embargoes. The same applies to supplies to ­operates. If there are grounds for or from companies or persons that appear on sanction lists. ­suspicion, an examination is ­conducted Furthermore, Brenntag employees must adhere to applicable and, if necessary, delivery does not trade restrictions resulting from international embargoes that ­occur and further measures are taken typically restrict or prohibit funds transfers or capital transfers in coordination with the authorities. to or from certain countries. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 EMPLOYEES﻿ 49 EMPLOYEES SHAPING THE FUTURE TOGETHER NFB More than 15,000 people work at Brenntag worldwide. With was selected. The goal is to provide this their expertise and their dedication, they play a key role in system to all Brenntag’s HR areas by the the company’s success and our long-term competitiveness. end of 2019 and to include all employThe primary goal of our human resources strategy is for us ees and line managers in HR processes to be regarded globally as the preferred employer in the field through self-service modules. of chemical distribution – both for current and potential employees – and this objective is embedded in our corporate EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT strategy as well as Brenntag’s vision. We see it as part of our AND ­SUPPORT For information on our CORPORATE VISION, responsibility to offer good working conditions and a modIn line with the Group’s global HR strat­ please see page 44 ern working environment and to encourage our employees’ egy, the local HR departments in the variof Brenntag’s 2017 personal and professional development in a targeted manner. ous regions implement the programmes Annual Report. and measures in the areas of employee HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT NFB recruitment and support directly at the Skilled and motivated employees play a key role in Brenntag’s Group’s locations. global success. A globally uniform HR strategy has been developed and the priorities for the coming years have been ONBOARDING: With the “onboarding” determined on the basis of our corporate strategy and our programme, in 2016 a globally unicorporate values. A key aspect of our HR strategy is to proform minimum standard was defined mote employee retention and HR development at every level. to ensure that newly hired employees and employees changing jobs within The Global Human Resources Director is responsible for Brenntag quickly find their way within Brenntag’s Global Human Resources area. Together with the our company and are successfully inteGlobal HR Leadership Team, which includes the HR officers grated into their new environment. The for Global Leadership & Development, Global Compensation tools and processes provided here offer & Benefits and the Brenntag’s regions, the Global Human the Brenntag companies the opportuResources Director seeks to ensure compliance with our nity to take into consideration regional global HR strategy and to put in place and centrally manage and country-specific features and pracmeasures to ensure its implementation in the Group’s various tices within the scope of the process regions. The Global HR Director reports directly to the CEO and have met with a very positive reand also regularly pursues discussions and dialogues with the sponse from all those involved. entire Board of Management of Brenntag AG, through Board of Management meetings and executive committees such as EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT NFB the Executive Staffing & Development Committee. The Global HR Leadership & Develop­ ment Team aims to develop and imThe Global HR area has initiated and implemented various plement suitable human resources HR concepts in recent years. We are currently introducing a development concepts on the basis of global HR information and management system for the impleour global learning and development mentation and guidance of our globally uniform HR processstrategy. The team reports directly to es and measures. The requirements for this IT system were the Global HR Director. Brenntag’s huspecified in the year under review, and a software provider man resources development strategy BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 50 NFB includes measures for all groups of employees to ensure that NFB Succession planning and structured, proour employees receive appropriate training and that crucial active HR development are also on the positions are filled at Brenntag in a timely manner and in line list of priorities for our HR strategy and with requirements. are closely associated with the identi­ fication of potential. For this purpose, EMPLOYEE Monitoring the level of employee fluctuation on the basis of manage­ment and HR officers regularly ­FLUCTUATION ­indicators can be employee termination serves as a key indicator for us. This key hold meetings which have a globally found on page 56. figure is centrally determined every quarter for each Brenntag uniform structure (what we call “People company and reported to the Group’s HR management. Due Reviews”) to discuss possible s­ uccession to regional and country-specific variations, the figures are scenarios and concepts in order to analyzed at local level. In the event of atypical deviations, the ­prepare candidates for their future roles. causes are identified, and suitable measures are considered as needed. Due to its high level of significance, the Global HR Director regularly discusses At a global level, in the 2017 financial year various ­measures succession planning for global execwere initiated and implemented in relation to the following utive management with the Board of issues: employee performance management, employee Management. In the year under review, ­development, identification and development of potential, these “People Reviews” were introduced and succession planning. These measures are outlined in the for further organizational levels in the following sections. Group’s various regions. They will be expanded in 2018. EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT: Annual feedback dialogues are an instrument which is used to ensure longPROGRAMMES AND TRAINING: In line with term employee retention at our company. In all Brenntag the Group’s global concept, Brenntag-­ companies, the dialogue between employees and their line specific skills and expertise are taught managers promotes a feedback culture whilst also encourthrough a globally uniform approach. aging a change and performance culture. In 2017, these Under the umbrella of the “Brenntag “­People Performance Dialogues” were held within the scope Academy”, target group-specific and inof a globally uniform process for the first time. These meetdividual programmes and training are ings consider employees’ performance and discuss their goals offered and, depending on the ­nature of and personal expectations as well as individual development this programme or training, are p ­ rovided measures. either in conventional events attended in person or through online training IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL AND SUCCESSION PLANNING: events. Regional and local HR developIn order to foster internal careers and to ensure the emerment programmes and measures are gence of a new generation of Brenntag managers and exalso included. perts, in the year under review a global concept for identifying potential was introduced with the goal of identifying, At Group level and in Brenntag’s ­regions, as early as possible, particularly high-performing internal programmes are in place to meet the candidates with a high level of development potential who ­specific needs of our managers and fulfil the defined global criteria. For this target group, a junior staff, in order to prepare them special development programme has been established at a for their responsibility as managers or global level for the ongoing development of their personal experts and to support them in their abilities and in order to prepare them for the next stage of role. As well as providing and enhancing their career through targeted development measures. This management skills, in these development programme also offers employees from various regions an programmes Brenntag aims to encourage excellent opportunity to discuss their thoughts and ideas and the ­systematic sharing and transfer of to develop a network throughout the company. From 2018 knowledge. onwards, around 60 junior staff are expected to complete this new programme every year. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 ﻿ Our global executive management programme “Brenntag NFB Brenntag UK & Ireland has introduced ­Organic Sustainable Strategies” (BOSS), for instance, is i­ntended a new training programme in the form for our company’s experienced key players and is precisely of the “Brenntag Pathway Scheme” ­attuned to Brenntag’s growth strategy. This programme is which aims to prepare promising junior run in partnership with INSEAD, one of the world’s largest commercial staff for the next stage of and most prestigious graduate business schools. Since its their career. The programme provides inception in 2012, around 100 employees from all Brenntag extensive support for the participants regions have participated in this programme. More than a through regular mentoring sessions with third of its ­participants have now reached the next stages experienced senior managers, as well as of their careers at Brenntag. ­specialized formal supply and purchasing training by external experts to further develop and enhance their professional PRACTICAL skills. The participants also benefit from EXAMPLES the opportunity to communicate extenBrenntag North America’s “Catalyst Leadership Course”, which sively with other employees in similar was launched in March 2017, is an example of a regional trainfields within the company through ating programme. It is designed for the region’s earlier career tending formal training and development leaders and is intended to encourage their personal and proprogrammes, and undergoing secondfessional development in a practical way, while enabling them ments to other operational sites. to manage employees in line with Brenntag’s corporate values. In the year under review, ten courses took place with a total of In many countries, trainee programmes NFB approximately 200 participants. enable university graduates to combine their theoretical knowledge with practiThe mentoring programme which the Brenntag Specialties cal experience while gaining an insight and Brenntag Solutions Group established in North America in into our company’s many different div­ 2014 is intended for junior managers as well as career entrants. isions. In Germany, to date more than Once a month, these employees have a discussion with their 30 career entrants have completed our mentor – who is not their line manager – either in person or specialized trainee programmes for manover the telephone, on the topics of sales, customer service, agement and specialist careers. accounting, purchasing and marketing, and receive advice on their daily work as well as their career development. In 2017, this programme comprised 29 mentee-mentor pairs. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 52 NFB Due to the various regional and local requirements of the EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND working environment as well as cultural differences, Brenntag INVOLVEMENT largely takes charge of and manages individual further ­training In addition to development prospects, and ­development measures on a decentralized ­basis. Our open communication and an ­opportunity ­employees receive training in accordance with their ­duties to play a part in shaping the company in the company and their personal development needs. are important aspects which help to proThe training measures, which take the form of face-to-face mote employee motivation and loyalty. events, ­courses and workshops as well as online seminars, cover technical topics – including sales, logistics, chemistry, Brenntag’s employees are regularly kept ­environmental protection and quality management – as well informed of current issues and ­company as personal ­development measures such as intercultural matters through their line managers ­training, negotiating skills, presentation techniques and and also through our internal print and For information on ­conflict manage­ment. In every Brenntag region, occupa­online media. Conversely, our employees training courses in the area of OCCUPATIONAL tional safety is a core issue for ­training, since protecting are able to discuss issues directly with SAFETY, please also see our employees’ health and safety is a top priority for us. their line managers or with the personnel the Safety chapter on page 35. managers responsible at any time. Employee development at Brenntag is supported by the use of a global e-learning management system. This enables us Depending on the country-specific legis­ to manage and evaluate our training courses more effectively lation, employees can also contact the and helps us to ensure that mandatory and important matepersons representing their interests rial such as the global training course on the “Brenntag Code on elected co-determination bodies. For information of Business Conduct and Ethics” reaches our employees even Brenntag respects its employees’ right on COMPLIANCE ­ TRAINING at Brenntag, more effectively. to freedom of association and collective see page 12. bargaining and will not pursue or tolerAPPRENTICESHIP: Via the dual education and training system ate any measures which are intended to in Germany, Austria and Switzerland (DACH region), Brenntag restrict these rights. is currently training almost 70 young people to become management assistants in wholesale and foreign trade, logistics A one-off event was held in April 2017 management assistants, office managers, laboratory technito promote the continuing integration cians and warehouse staff. Alongside comprehensive apprenof Brenntag’s DACH region which was ticeship and the acquisition of technical skills and expertise, newly formed in 2016. This comprises the transfer of our corporate culture and company-specific around 1,700 employees at 25 locations working processes as well as the personal development of in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. the apprentices are at the forefront of this Brenntag scheme. ­Almost 750 DACH employees met up in the arena of the Bundesliga football Thanks to the wide array of apprenticeships on offer in various club FC Schalke 04 in Gelsenkirchen, commercial and industrial occupational areas, Brenntag trains ­Germany, for an internal football tourjunior managers and experts in a targeted manner. Once they nament followed by a party. have successfully completed their apprenticeships, Brenntag offers young key players attractive prospects and challenges. The “LINK” internal online portal supports and promotes the flow of information, communication and cooperation between Brenntag employees across different locations. This platform brings together our employees and facilitates the transfer of knowledge while ­offering an opportunity to share information, experiences and best-practice methods from different areas. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 EMPLOYEES﻿ 53 Brenntag also has idea management systems in place at many for example, supplementary private levels, through which employees can make active contribuhealth insurance and life assurance tions. At Brenntag in Germany, for instance, a steadily growing policies are offered. In many countries, archive of ideas has been emerging for some years now via Brenntag also covers part of the cost the “IN4PUT” platform which is accessible to all employees of ­preventative measures or medical at all times. Any proposals which are put into practice are examinations and pays for vaccinations rewarded with a bonus. In the Philippines, an “ideas box” was for its employees and their families, introduced in 2017 which is intended to encourage Brenntag for example. Brenntag also promotes employees to submit proposals for improvements. its employees’ physical fitness. For instance, individual companies contribute Moreover, every year the global and regional “Brenntag towards gym memberships or initiate Awards” are presented to employees who have achieved campaigns and events which provide outstanding success in the areas of sales, safety or profestips on healthy eating and lifestyles. sional performance. In addition, employees receive r­ egional Joint participation in company runs and or local recognition for their performance and input. In other sporting competitions are also Brenntag’s EMEA region, on a yearly basis, locations which very popular. Many Brenntag compahave a particularly high level of achievement in the field of nies help their employees to reconcile safety receive the “Safety First Award”. This award focuses work and family life by offering flexible on the development and implementation of initiatives and working time models and holiday arprogrammes which foster a robust safety culture in line with rangements as well as other supportive the BEST behaviour standards. services such as childcare or care for For more details of the “BRENNTAG ENHANCED relatives. Regular family days are also SAFETY THINKING” HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE held at many Brenntag locations such programme (BEST), see the Safety chapter on Brenntag’s identity as an attractive and responsible employer as the “Kids Day” at Brenntag in India, page 37. includes promoting the health of our employees and their where employees can show their relawork-life balance. In all regions, we therefore offer measures tives where they work and provide them which are in line with local social systems, while frequently with an insight into their job and the going beyond national practices and statutory requirements. company. In countries with inadequate social security arrangements, ACTIVE TOGETHER: Joint participation in ­sporting events and ­competitions is extremely popular among Brenntag employees around the world. These events are also often paired with some form of charitable engagement. 54 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES REMUNERATION AND PENSION Brenntag employs people from more than 100 different SCHEMES countries. Our employee structure is characterized by a good Brenntag’s remuneration policy is deFor information on ­balance between women and men and a wide age range. The fined by factors such as attractiveness, how Brenntag AG and Brenntag GmbH deal result of this is a social and cultural diversity which we use fairness and competitiveness. E ­ mployees’ with the statutory constructively. Worldwide, we work in teams which are mixed qualifications, experience and level of requirement of TARGETS FOR THE PROPORTION in line with various criteria, while considering the needs of responsibility are paramount criteria. OF WOMEN on the various generations. The versatility of our employees’ heteroWe offer a competitive remuneration Supervisory Board, Board of Management/ geneous skills and experience is a cornerstone of our success. and benefits package. Remuneration management and at the may vary in line with local market first two management levels, see page 34 f. of Guaranteeing equal opportunities is a matter of course for ­conditions, regulations and legislation. Brenntag’s 2017 Annual Brenntag, as is counteracting and eliminating any form of Our v­ alue-based remuneration system Report. ­discrimination and harassment. The recruitment, remu­ ­provides for fixed and variable salary neration and development of employees solely reflect their components for the company’s managequalifications and abilities in relation to their respective ment level. The ratio of fixed to variable ­duties. For Brenntag, it is a matter of course and of the pay components depends on a specific ­utmost importance that employees, business partners or third manager’s influence on the company’s ­parties do not suffer any discrimination on grounds of their success. As an incentive ­system, the ethnic origin, gender, marital status, age, religion or belief, ­remuneration and agreement on object­ skin ­colour, disability or sexual orientation. This is stipulated ives system is based on the Managein our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Violations of ment by Objectives model. The variable See COMPLIANCE this code are investigated by our compliance organization remuneration components are closely ­INCIDENTS on page 12. with the ­necessary rigour and, if a violation is found to have linked to the company’s results as well ­occurred, corresponding action is taken. as personal performance. In September 2017, Brenntag Química Brasil received the There are both defined benefit and “Social Enterprise Award for Social Inclusion” from NURAP, a ­d efined contribution pension plans Brazilian NGO which is active in the field of vocational ­training for the employees of the Brenntag and social work. It grants this award to companies which are Group. The pension commitments vary committed to developing the potential of young people, ­depending on the legal, tax and ­economic ­social inclusion and encouraging diversity in the world of circumstances in the ­individual countries work, thus contributing to the common good. Among ­other and the employee’s years of s­ ervice with reasons, Brenntag Brasil received this award for its effort the company and pay grade. In addition and engagement in providing a structured development to employer-financed ­company ­pension ­programme to young people and take on around 70% of them schemes, Brenntag also ­supports ­private after they complete their apprenticeships. pension schemes through v­arious ­options and pension plans. For instance, through a deferred compen­sation scheme ­employees are able to forgo payment of specific pay components in favour of an employee-funded company pension commitment. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 ﻿ EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE The number of employees indicated are shown on the basis of the Group’s headcounts as at the end of the year. EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AREA OF WORK AND GENDER Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % EMEA 7,023 45.6 6,888 45.7 Sales 5,859 38.0 5,748 38.1 Women 2,634 37.5 2,545 36.9 Women 2,897 49.4 2,798 48.7 Men 4,389 62.5 4,343 63.1 Men 2,962 50.6 2,950 51.3 North America 4,747 30.8 4,631 30.7 Distribution 2,160 14.0 2,152 14.3 Women 1,034 21.8 1,003 21.7 Women 210 9.7 208 9.7 Men 3,713 78.2 3,628 78.3 Men 1,950 90.3 1,944 90.3 Latin America 1,453 9.4 1,491 9.9 Warehouses 4,647 30.2 4,537 30.1 Women 545 37.5 542 36.4 Women 516 11.1 501 11.0 Men 908 62.5 949 63.6 Men 4,131 88.9 4,036 89.0 Asia Pacific 2,043 13.2 1,923 12.8 Administration 2,750 17.8 2,635 17.5 Women 958 46.9 904 47.0 Women 1,621 58.9 1,562 59.3 Men 1,085 53.1 1,019 53.0 Men 1,129 41.1 1,073 40.7 Other Segments 150 1.0 139 0.9 Brenntag Group 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 Women 73 48.7 75 54.0 Men 77 51.3 64 46.0 Brenntag Group 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 Women 5,244 34.0 5,069 33.6 Men 10,172 66.0 10,003 66.4 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 56 EMPLOYEE IN MANAGAMENT POSITIONS1) BY GENDER NEW EMPLOYEES BY REGION Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 58 15.3 67 16.9 EMEA 855 34.3 787 34.6 Men 320 84.7 330 83.1 North America 908 36.4 806 35.5 Brenntag Group 378 100.0 397 100.0 Latin America 198 7.9 242 10.6 Asia Pacific 516 20.7 422 18.6 Other segments 18 0.7 16 0.7 EMPLOYEE BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER Brenntag Group 2,495 100.0 2,273 100.0 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 abs. in % abs. in % NFB EMPLOYEE TURNOVER2) BY REGION Full-time 14,805 96.0 14,477 96.1 Dec. 31, 20173) Dec. 31, 2016 Women 4,812 32.5 4,626 32.0 Men 9,993 67.5 9,851 68.0 abs. in % abs. in % Part-time 519 3.4 498 3.3 EMEA 446 5.6 268 3.7 Women 394 75.9 406 81.5 North America 488 8.9 341 6.7 Men 125 24.1 92 18.5 Latin America 131 7.4 117 6.5 Apprentices 92 0.6 97 0.6 Asia Pacific 326 12.7 255 11.2 Women 38 41.3 37 38.1 Other segments 1 0.6 3 2.0 Men 54 58.7 60 61.9 Brenntag Group 1,392 7.7 984 5.9 Brenntag Group 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 EMPLOYEES BY AGE4) EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % < 20 26 0.2 36 0.4 Permanent contracts 14,367 93.2 13,946 92.5 20 – 29 1,453 13.6 1,496 14.3 Women 4,794 33.4 4,641 33.3 30 – 39 3,216 30.1 3,183 30.5 Men 9,573 66.6 9,305 66.7 40 – 49 3,124 29.3 3,027 29.0 Fixed-term contracts 957 6.2 1,029 6.9 50 – 59 2,322 21.8 2,186 20.9 Women 412 43.1 391 38.0 > 59 528 5.0 513 4.9 Men 545 56.9 638 62.0 Brenntag Group4) 10,669 100.0 10,441 100.0 Apprentices 92 0.6 97 0.6 Women 38 41.3 37 38.1 Men 54 58.7 60 61.9 AVERAGE AGE AND AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE BY REGION4) Brenntag Group 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Ø age Ø length of service NEW EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF ENTRY in years in years Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 EMEA 44 43 11 11 Latin America 40 39 7 7 abs. in % abs. in % Asia Pacific 38 38 6 6 New hires 2,346 94.0 1,811 79.7 Other segments 45 45 11 10 Company acquisitions 149 6.0 462 20.3 Brenntag Group4) 42 42 10 10 Brenntag Group 2,495 100.0 2,273 100.0 1) Comprises the global executive management and local management groups. 2) Termination by employees on the basis of Schlüter formula. 3) Only the values for 2017 quoted in the key figures are part of the NFB. 4) Excluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 COMMUNITY﻿ 57 COMMUNITY GIVING BACK Brenntag is present at more than 530 sites in 74 countries about safety and the environment in worldwide, where it is an employer, a business partner and a seminars at public and c­ hurch-run neighbour in local communities in many different countries establishments. A ­ nother p ­ roject supand cities. We see ourselves as part of these communities, ported by Brenntag ­Colombia in the as a “corporate citizen”, and we maintain a lively dialogue reporting year is aimed at increasing with them and aim to contribute to a positive environment. environmental awareness. The ­recycling waste of the Brenntag site in Mosquera Brenntag’s social commitment is underpinned primarily by was given to an educational centre our employees. They collect money and donations in kind for children from low-income families and invest their expertise, their time and their manpower in who used it to generate ­money that support of charitable causes. In many cases, Brenntag supwas invested in the recovery of green ports their contribution either financially and organization­areas and p ­ lanting trees at the centre. ally or else by releasing them from their work duties. In ­Thailand and V­ ietnam, Brenntag provides funding to educate the children of PROMOTION OF EDUCATION our operational e ­ mployees and rewards The promotion of education is a focus of Brenntag’s activities strong school performance. and the projects it supports in all of its regions. A large number of our sites have been cooperating with schools, universities and institutions for many years now with the common aim of encouraging young people’s interest in chemistry and our industry, sensitizing them regarding the handling of chemicals and supporting their education. PRACTICAL EXAMPLES For many years, Brenntag North America has sponsored the local, state and national “You Be The Chemist Challenge”® school competition – involving great personal commitment from many of our employees. Organized by the Chemical ­Educational Foundation, it encourages 5th–8th grade students to take an ­interest in chemistry and its applications in everyday life. In Peru and Ecuador, Brenntag employees teach young people 58 We provide information on training and career opportunities Unfortunately, numerous Brenntag sites, in our company at events worldwide. Through open days and employees and neighbouring commuinternships as well as trainee programmes and scholarships, nities in various countries were ­affected we give pupils and students in countries such as Germany, Thaiby serious natural disasters in 2017. land, Malaysia, Chile and Mexico the opportunity to ­develop Our employees here made ­tremendous an understanding of the work of a chemical distributor, to efforts both individually and in teams by ­acquire practical experience and start a career in our industry. providing rapid and non-­bureaucratic In ­Germany, Brenntag GmbH presents the “Brenntag Award”, aid to the people ­affected by means which includes prize money, twice a year to the top graduate of monetary donations and ­donations of the “Business Chemistry” course at Heinrich Heine University in kind. Brenntag also helped by in Düsseldorf. ­offering additional financial assistance as well as ­materials to secure houses. LOCAL COMMITMENT In ­September/October, a succession of Brenntag aims to provide assistance exactly where it is ­needed. ­severe hurricanes and storms left major Because local needs vary from country to country due to devastation and damage in their wake ­national, cultural and structural differences, the Brenntag in numerous Central American countries sites decide autonomously where and to what extent they get and regions of the US. Brenntag set up involved in social initiatives. The company pursues so many relief funds here to raise ­money for the different activities that only a few examples are provided here: employees affected and topped up the donations. For ­example, ­employees of Brenntag Northeast in Reading, PRACTICAL Pennsylvania, collected an impresEXAMPLES sive 15 tonnes of material donations In the year under review, Brenntag UK & Ireland successfully for ­families that lost all their possescontinued “Brenntag Giving”, a programme that was launched sions and raised m ­ oney to purchase and is organized entirely by its employees. As part of this ­additional aid supplies. In Bangladesh, award-winning programme, employees at a selected site can our employees ­donated money to buy decide every month which good cause or registered charity food for the ­victims of the devastating should receive the funding provided by Brenntag. Brenntag floods that ravaged large parts of the also allows its employees to take a day off work so that they country d­ uring the year. At the start of can support a charitable organization of their choice. November 2017, Brenntag employees in ­Malaysia ­collected ­material donations In the Asia Pacific region, our employees support local comsuch as clothing, sanitary products and munities and institutions with donations in kind. In Malaysia, medicine for the p ­ eople a ­ ffected by the Brenntag sports club team spent a day at an orphanage in flooding in the state of Penang. the city of Klang, where they donated both their time and an abundance of presents collected beforehand by staff members. In the South Korean city of Anyang, Brenntag regularly supports an establishment for socially vulnerable seniors by donating nutritional supplements. A close dialogue with local emergency forces and mutual assis­tance agreements are also typical of many Brenntag sites around the world. In North America and Latin America, for instance, we provide local fire brigades as well as police and emergency services with financial support and equipment, or we make our expertise and our sites available to them for seminars and joint rescue exercises. The experience gained by Brenntag here has made the company an ideal partner to ­organize the Dominican Republic’s first competition for company fire brigades together with the country’s Ministry of ­Labour. As part of this nationwide event, Brenntag ­Caribbean was able to pass on its expertise to over 60 participating companies. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 59 60 REPORT PROFILE ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORTING PRINCIPLES NFB the NFB content. The matrix is the Brenntag’s Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 is result of a ­m ateriality ­a ssessment its fifth sustainability report. Brenntag reports on its sustainwhich is based on the principles ability activities every year. Its next report will therefore be d efined by the Global Reporting ­ published in 2019. ­Initiative (GRI): sustainability context, materiality, completeness and stakeThis report complies with international standards for sustainholder inclusiveness. These topics were ability reporting – the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and then assessed for the NFB by using the the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). following criteria: // T his report has been prepared in accordance with the // T opics which are needed to underGRI Standards (2016): Core Option. The GRI Content stand the business ­performance, Index can be found on page 65. the business results, the ­company’s // This Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 ­position and the impact of is also an annual progress report (Communication on Brenntag’s activities on the non-­ www.unglobalcompact.org Progress – COP) for the UNGC, which Brenntag joined financial aspects (­environmental, in October 2014. This report has therefore also been ­social and employee matters, published on the organization’s website. ­respect for human rights, anti-­ corruption and bribery matters, and NFB SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL GROUP REPORT supply chain responsibility) The content in this report marked with a blue line and the // Topics which appear in the “very acronym NFB forms the separate non-financial Group reNFB important” section of the materiality port (NFB) pursuant to Section 315b, para. 3, of the German matrix; applicable to both axes Commercial Code (HGB) to ensure compliance with the legal // Topics which form part of requirements of the German CSR Directive Implementation Brenntag’s Group strategy and/or Act (CSR-RUG). The NFB has been audited by Pricewatersustainability targets houseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) pursuant to ISAE 3000 (Revised) to obtain limited assurance. The Practitioner’s Report can be found on pages 63 to 64. References to information not contained in the Combined Group Management Report or the Management Report of Brenntag AG are not part of the NFB. Only the values for 2017 quoted in the key figures are part of the NFB. IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CONTENT: In order to determine the material issues for the NFB, Brenntag has followed the definition of Section 289c, para. 3, sentence 1 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). The issues presented in the materiality matrix on page 6 form the basis for determining BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 REPORT PROFILE﻿ 61 This materiality process identified the following topics as NFB The contents and data ­provided in NFB ­being material to Brenntag within the meaning of the law: this report have been determined by way of internal processes. They ­derive BRENNTAG: MATERIAL TOPICS PURSUANT TO SECTION 289C, PARA. 3, from Brenntag’s existing ­manage­ment SENTENCE 1 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) and data-­recording s­ ystems and from ASPECTS TOPIC AND ­company ­documents and have been PAGE REFERENCE obtained from the ­operational units Environmental matters // P  rotection of soil, air and water of Brenntag’s r­egions as well as the (pages 30–33, 34–35, 42) ­responsible ­corporate ­departments. The // Energy efficiency (pages 39–40) ­contents of this report have been reviewed Employee matters // O  ccupational health and safety by ­employees with the relevant specialist (pages 30–33, 35–36) expertise. The content of the NFB has // Employee development (pages 49–52, 56) also been audited by PwC pursuant to Respect for human rights // Human rights (pages 9–12) ISAE 3000 (Revised) to obtain limited Anti-corruption and // Anti-corruption (pages 9–12) assurance. bribery matters Social matters // Identified as being immaterial The data published in this s­ ustainability to the non-financial report report have been compiled and prowithin the meaning of the law cessed with the greatest care. However, Supply chain // S ustainable procurement we are unable to completely rule out the responsibility (pages 45–48) possibility of transcription errors. Social matters were identified as being immaterial to Brenntag For the purpose of readability, we use within the meaning of the law and were therefore not includthe term “employees” throughout this ed in the NFB. We have reported on the social activities and report, which refers to both male and wide-ranging involvement of our employees in the “­ Community” female employees. chapter on page 57. In addition to the aspects covered by the law, Brenntag has identified “Supply chain responsibility” BOUNDARIES OF KEY TOPICS PURSUANT as being material within the meaning of the law. As the market TO GRI (103-1) leader in chemical distribution, we believe we have a responsiThe diagram on page 62 shows the bility to promote the non-financial aspects within the chemical boundaries of the key topics pursuant industry’s supply chain. to the GRI (103-1). The relevant GRI standards covered by each topic are DATA BASIS also indicated. For key topics that are This sustainability report covers Brenntag AG, which is included not covered by the GRI guidelines, we in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the fully have referred directly to the correspondconsolidated subsidiaries which are also included, along with ing management approaches in the restructured companies. For information on the group of conport and, if necessary, to our website solidated companies and consolidation method, see page 123 as an additional source of information. and page 127 as well as the list of companies included in the We have combined the management consolidated financial statements on page 199 of Brenntag’s approaches for the GRI-relevant stan­ 2017 Annual Report. Any deviations from these parameters dards and presented them for the areas are indicated in the relevant section of this sustainability of economical, environmental and social report. topics. There were no changes to the key topics or the boundaries compared to The reporting period for this sustainability report covers the previous year. the 2017 financial year (Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017) of the Brenntag Group and follows on from the Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2016, which was published in July 2017. Any deviations regarding the reporting periods for individual data and contents are noted separately. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 62 1) R  ELEVANT WITHIN THE RELEVANT TOPIC 1) 2) RELATED GRI STANDARD OR MANAGEMENT APPROACH ORGANIZATION FOR ADDITIONAL RELEVANT TOPICS 2) R  ELEVANT OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance // GRI 307: Environmental Compliance // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling // GRI 418: Customer Privacy // GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Ethical/Moral Principles //  . 8–11 p // https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/strategy-and-­ organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Anti-corruption // GRI 205: Anti-corruption Code of Conduct // p. 9–10 Risk Management // Brenntag 2017 Annual Report, p. 92–94 Human Rights // GRI 406: Non-discrimination // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining // GRI 408: Child Labour // GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour // GRI 410: Security Practices // GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples // GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Antitrust and Competition Laws // GRI 206: Anticompetitive behaviour SAFETY Occupational Safety and Health Protection // GRI 403: Occupational Health And Safety Product Safety // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Product Quality // p. 8 Process Safety // p. 33-34 Safe Handling of Chemicals // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Risk Prevention // p. 8-9, 30–35 // Brenntag 2017 Annual Report p. 92–94 ENVIRONMENT Protection (Soil, Air, Water) // GRI 303: Water // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Water Management // GRI 303: Water Emissions Reductions/Climate Protection // GRI 305: Emissions Resource Efficiency // p. 39–44 Energy Efficiency // GRI 302: Energy Environmental Management // p. 30–33, 39–40 Recycling // p. 42–43 Waste Management // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Transportation // p. 41 SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainable Procurement, Supplier Management, // GRI 204: Procurement Practices Supplier Qualification/Training, Sub-contractor // GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Management // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Sustainable Customer Solutions (Products/Services) // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling EMPLOYEES Personnel Development/Training/Talent Management // GRI 404: Training and Education Compensation and Benefits // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Working Conditions // GRI 402: Labour-Management Relations Work-Life Balance // p. 53 Diversity // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity // GRI 406: Anti-discrimination Labour and Social Policy Rights // GRI 402: Labour-Management Relations // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Employee Satisfaction/ Engagement // (GRI 401: Employment) Recruiting // (GRI 401: Employment) PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY Social/Charitable Commitments // GRI 413: Local Communities Local Community Engagement // GRI 413: Local Communities Participation in Industry Associations // p  . 34–35, 46–48 https://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/­brenntag_ list_of_memberships_20150630.pdf BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 PRACTITIONER’S REPORT﻿ 63 PRACTITIONER’S REPORT INDEPENDENT ­PRACTITIONER’S REPORT ON A LIMITED ­ASSURANCE ­ENGAGEMENT ON NON-­FINANCIAL REPORTING1) TO BRENNTAG AG, ESSEN PRACTITIONER´S RESPONSIBILITY We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Our responsibility is to express a limseparate non-financial group report pursuant to § (Article) ited assurance conclusion on the Non-­ 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “­German financial Report based on the assurance Commercial Code”) of Brenntag AG, Essen, (­hereinafter ­engagement we have performed. the “Company”) for the period from January 1, 2017, to ­December 31, 2017, which comprises the sections marked with Within the scope of our engagement a blue line and the acronym NFB in the Sustainability Report we did not perform an audit on external 2017 of the Company (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the Non-financial RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Report. The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance We conducted our assurance engagewith §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. ment in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements This responsibility of the Company’s executive directors in(ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagecludes the selection and application of appropriate methods ments other than Audits or Reviews of of non-financial reporting as well as making assumptions and Historical Financial Information, issued estimates related to individual non-financial disclosures which by the IAASB. This Standard requires that are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the execwe plan and perform the assurance enutive directors are responsible for such internal control as gagement to allow us to conclude with they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of limited assurance that nothing has come a Non-financial Report that is free from material misstatement to our attention that causes us to believe whether due to fraud or error. that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL OF THE AUDIT FIRM December 2017 has not been prepared, We have complied with the German professional provisions in all material aspects, in accordance regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code In a limited assurance engagement the for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors assurance procedures are less in extent (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchthan for a reasonable assurance enprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Congagement, and therefore a substantially trol 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute lower level of assurance is obtained. The of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality assurance procedures selected depend control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: on the practitioner’s judgment. Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 1) PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial report and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 64 Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perINTENDED USE OF THE formed amongst others the following assurance procedures ­ASSURANCE ­REPORT and further activities: We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. // O btaining an understanding of the structure of the The assurance engagement has been sustainability organization and of the stakeholder performed for purposes of the C ­ ompany engagement and the report is solely intended to // Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the ­inform the Company about the results Non-financial Report regarding the preparation process, of the limited assurance engagement. the internal control system relating to this process and selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report The report is not intended for any third // Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement parties to base any (financial) decision of the Non-financial Report thereon. Our responsibility lies only // Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the with the Company. We do not assume Non-financial Report any responsibility towards third parties. // Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and the Frankfurt am Main, April 16, 2018 combined group management report and management report of the Company PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH // Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft information ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance ppa. Nicolette Behncke evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that Wirtschaftsprüfer causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report [German public auditor] for the period from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2017, has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance ppa. Mirjam Kolmar with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 65 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 101: Foundation SR: p. 5–8, 60–62 GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-01 Name of the organization Brenntag AG 102-02 Activities, brands, products and services SR: p. 4–5 www.brenntag.com AR: p. 42 102-03 Location of headquarters Messeallee 11, 45131 Essen, Germany 102-04 Location of operations SR: Inner fold-out page AR: p. 199–207 102-05 Ownership and legal form AR: p. 10, 42–43 102-06 Markets served AR: p. 42–43 102-07 Scale of the organization SR: Inner fold-out page AR: fold-out page, p. 112–113 102-08 Information on employees and SR: p. 55–56 6 other workers 102-09 Supply chain SR: p. 4–5, 45–48 102-10 Significant changes to the organization SR: p. 45–48 In the reporting period there were no significant changes to the supply chain. and its supply chain AR: p. 42–43, 50–51 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach AR: p. 45–46, 92–94 102-12 External initiatives SR: p. 10–11, 31, 34–35 102-13 Membership of associations https://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/­brenntag_ list_of_memberships_20150630.pdf Strategy 102-14 Statement from the CEO SR: p. 2–3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and SR: p. 4–5, 8–11 https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/strategy-and-­ 10 norms of behaviour organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR: p. 14–19, 20–22, 28–39 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR: p. 12 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Due to its large number of international locations and the broad range of labour 3 regulations applicable to these locations, Brenntag does not record these data in a consolidated format. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR: p. 12–13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR: p. 12–13, 45–48, 57–58 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR: p. 5–7, 12–13 Reporting practice 102-45 List of consolidated entities AR: p. 123–124, 199–207 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR: p. 5–7, 60–62 102-47 List of material topics SR: p. 6, 62 102-48 Restatements of information SR: p. 40, 61 AR: p. 120–124 102-49 Changes in reporting SR: p. 60–61 AR: p. 120–122, 124–126 102-50 Reporting period SR: p. 60 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding SR: Imprint the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Core the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index SR: p. 65–68 102-56 External assurance SR: p. 63–64 SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 AR: Brenntag 2017 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 66 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC ECONOMIC 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR: p. 62 boundary AR: p. 44–46 103-2 Management approach SR: p. 4–8 AR: p. 44–46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 5–8, 8–12 AR: p. 53–60 GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and AR: f old-out page, distributed p. 110, 147 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other AR: p. 146, 163–173 retirement plans GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SR: p. 45–48 Local and regional purchasing is only of minor significance for the business model of a chemical distributor. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to SR: p. 9–10 Within the scope of internal audits, a total of 28 Brenntag companies were 10 corruption reviewed in relation to corruption risks, etc. in the reporting year. 205-2 Communication and training about SR: p. 9–10, 11–12 10 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and SR: p. 9–10 10 actions taken GRI 206: Anticompetitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, AR: p. 100–101 antitrust and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR: p. 62 boundary 103-2 Management approach SR: p. 4–8, 30–35, 39, 42–43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 7, 12–13, 30–34 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR: p. 40 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity SR: p. 40 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR: p. 39–40 8, 9 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR: p. 41–42 7, 8 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by SR: p. 41 8 withdrawal of water GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR: p. 40 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR: p. 40 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR: p. 40 8 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste SR: p. 42–43 Waste volumes are not recorded or consolidated on a Group-wide basis at 8 Brenntag. 306-3 Significant spills SR: p. 34–35, 42 In the reporting period no significant spills occurred. 8 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws The Brenntag Group paid fines of approx. EUR 1.37 million in the reporting 8 and regulations period due to non-compliance with environmental regulations. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR: p. 45–48 8 environmental criteria SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 AR: Brenntag 2017 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 67 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC SOCIAL 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR: p. 62 boundary 103-2 Management approach SR: p. 4–13, 35–37, 49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 7, 49–51 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 Employee turnover SR: p. 56 Brenntag only reports the level of employee fluctuation by region. A breakdown 6 by age is not possible, since age data for the North America region have not been fully recorded for all employees due to North American legislation. Valid evaluation of these data is therefore not possible. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees SR: p. 53–54 Due to our company’s decentralized and international structure, it is not possible 6 to provide a complete list of the benefits which our employees receive. For this reason, only a few examples are provided in this report. GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Brenntag informs its employees of impending operational changes at an early 3 ­operational changes stage and comprehensively, while complying with applicable national and ­international notification periods. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Injuries, occupational diseases and SR: p. 35–38 ­work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills SR: p. 49–52 and transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and SR: p. 54–56 6 ­employees AR: p. 28–39 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of SR: p. 54 6 women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective SR: p. 11, 12 Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More 6 actions taken detailed information cannot be disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to discrimination. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right SR: p. 10–11, 45–48, 52–53 Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within 3 to freedom of association and collective the Group in 2014. We did not identify any business units where freedom of bargaining may be at risk association is restricted. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of protection of the right of association and the right to collective bargaining. Brenntag’s code of conduct as well as our supplier code of conduct also require the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. GRI 407: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk SR: p. 8–12, 45–48 5 for incidents of child labour GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk SR: p. 8–12, 45–48 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labour GRI 410: Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Brenntag will review the relevance of this aspect. 1 policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of We have not received any reports on incidents for the reporting period. 1 indigenous peoples GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations subject to human rights reviews SR: p. 8–12 1 or impact assessments 412-3 Investment agreements that include For every company acquisition, aspects such as compliance and employment 2 human rights clauses agreements are examined in addition to commercial factors as part of due diligence. We disclose information about these transactions in the annual report (pages 50-51). For information on the Due Diligence process on acquisitions please see our website at https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/sustainability/sustainabilitymanagement/compliance/index.jsp GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community SR: p. 57–58 Brenntag does not systematically assess the impact of its community and social 1 ­engagement, impact assessments and activities. ­development programmes SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 AR: Brenntag 2017 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 68 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR: p. 45–48 Within the framework of its HSE guidelines, Brenntag Group has also detersocial criteria mined processes and criteria for dealing with subcontractors, which carry out construction and maintenance work at Brenntag locations. They aim at ­preventing accidents and incidents, allowing safe execution of work and ­protecting the subcontractors’ health. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the There were no incidents during the reporting period. health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service SR: p. 34–35 ­information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. ­product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. marketing communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning SR: p. 8–10, 12 Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More ­breaches of customer privacy detailed information cannot be disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to customer privacy. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations AR: p. 100–101 in the social and economic area SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2017 AR: Brenntag 2017 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 IMPRINT Issuer Concept and text Brenntag AG Verena Blaschke Messeallee 11 Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG 45131 Essen, Germany Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany T +49 (0) 201 6496 0 F +49 (0) 201 6496 1010 Design and layout info@brenntag.de Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany www.brenntag.com Print Contact WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Brenntag AG Essen, Germany Corporate Development Dirk Eckert Productionsmanagement T +49 (0) 201 6496 1317 Labude. corporate products, Essen, Germany sustainability@brenntag.de Picture Credits Project Management/Editor-in-chief Page 13: © IHS Market; Page 14: © ­GettyImages/ Dirk Eckert Patricia Hamilton; Page 33: © NACD, USA; Corporate Development, Brenntag AG Page 43: © Waterwise; Page 53: © innogy SE; Verena Blaschke Page 57: © HHU/Jochen Müller; Page 59: © Udo Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG Geisler; other pictures: Brenntag This Sustainability Report is a translation of the original German version. In case of any differences only the German version is binding. Print compensatedId-No. 1872040 www.bvdm-online.de BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 BRENNTAG AG Messeallee 11 45131 Essen Germany www.brenntag.com
