Corporate Responsibility Performance Report 2018 Chief Executive Officer statement The past financial year has no doubt been one of the most dynamic in recent years for Transparency and disclosure with our people WorleyParsons. To that end, I would like to start by acknowledging the amazing people of We have introduced a number of innovations supporting employee engagement, effectiveness WorleyParsons for their relentless commitment to helping our success. Their work, passion, and customer satisfaction. Our global engagement surveys are one tool we use to track innovation and resilience has delivered and helped reinforce our position as one of the most employee engagement. Over the past year, opportunities for our people to interact with our future-ready players in our industry. leaders (and each other) were available and we have social media and the Yammer platform to Safety performance further the transparency within our business. Page 22 Our focus on safety is at the core of everything we do, and our people continued to deliver Influence and recognition industry leading results. This year we initiated a review of our integrity management This year we revisited our corporate responsibility materiality review, receiving and reflecting on framework, OneWay™. It will undergo a revamp to further cement our intense focus on caring the direct feedback from over 500 stakeholders. The results showed where we can significantly for the safety and wellbeing of our people by incorporating human performance factors as a influence and support some important issues our world faces that our stakeholders care about. more holistic approach to safety and to the way we undertake all our work. Page 60 Efforts to continuously improve our corporate responsibility performance have been recognized Diversity performance through industry awards for: our performance in community social impact; philanthropy; volunteering; non-financial disclosure; health and safety; and corporate responsibility reporting During the period WorleyParsons achieved and exceeded its FY2020 targets for female board all showcased throughout this report and our 2018 Annual Report. participation and women senior executives. We also measure broader diversity across our leadership teams and have seen an improvement this year, although there is still more to do in WorleyParsons is committed to making the United Nations Global Compact and its principles some parts of the business. Page 55 part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. It is our intent to continue our engagement in collaborative projects that advance the broader Sustainable Development Volunteering performance Goals of the United Nations and aid the communities in which we work. We are already Empowering our people to participate in skilled volunteering has resulted in positive impacts communicating how and where we are supporting the Sustainable Development Goals, as both in the communities where we operate and in our workplace. This financial year the highlighted throughout this report. WorleyParsons Foundation delivered the largest number of supported projects providing The resources and energy industry is an exciting place to be today. There’s so much change and opportunities for our people to volunteer their skills. Our people have completed over 139,000 so much opportunity. It should make for an exciting FY2019. volunteering hours since 2012 and over 25,500 hours in FY2018. This is an admirable achievement and I am proud of all our people who have given their time and skills to help their communities. Page 66 Environmental performance Andrew Wood This year we formalized our climate change position statement and established a climate Chief Executive Officer change working group. We again achieved our energy target for carbon emissions and continue WorleyParsons to report for the Carbon Disclosure Project. We have started work to better understand the impact of climate related financial and environmental risks on our business. Engineering News Record (ENR) again ranked WorleyParsons in the top 200 environmental firms globally. Page 44 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain II Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Corporate About Us Responsibility Materiality page 2 page 9 Governance, Ethics and Supply Chain Transparency page 15 page 24 Economic Human Rights page 30 page 37 Environment Our People “ page 41 page 52 I believe the enormous impact we make in our communities is made possible by the special mix of very passionate and skilled people, coupled with carefully designed enabling processes. Add to this the values-based culture and support from leadership, GRI Content Community and it is easy for our people to take action with minimal bureaucracy and appropriate Index Tables risk management. The collective impact that results from the hundreds of activities benefiting the many communities where we operate, is breathtaking. page 63 page 73 Marni Oaten, Director Corporate Responsibility CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 1 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 1. ABOUT US We are a professional services business, a partner in delivering sustained economic and social progress, creating opportunities for individuals, companies and communities to find and realize their own futures. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 2 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Environmental Social Governance metrics in 2018… Our People 26,050 42 26% 3 80+ 38,900 hrs Employees Countries where Senior executives are women Non-executive Board Nationalities Of online training delivered via WorleyParsons operates members are women (43%) the WorleyParsons Academy Our Community AUD$1.86m 390+ 25,500 40+ 11,500+ AUD$450m Contributions Community contributions Corporate responsibility themed Volunteer hours by Projects have received Employees involved in corporate Approx. total paid in effective by operations, our people activities, tracked and reported personnel WorleyParsons Foundation responsibility and diversity and tax payments (FY2017) and fundraising funding up to 2018 inclusion activities Disclosure and 500,000+ 500+ 6th Ethics 42 26,000+ 18 Public Engagement Social media followers Stakeholders responded to Year reporting to the UN Countries where our Contractors, employees and Different language variations our materiality survey Global Compact and using ethics helpline is available partners received Code of available for our Code of GRI Standards to our people Conduct training Conduct Environmental 50+ 13% 100+ Safety 50% 67 million Concentrating solar thermal Reduction in total carbon Wind power projects Of services locations globally have a total Worked hours (employees, power projects globally dioxide equivalent emissions globally recordable frequency rate of 0.00 contractors, joint ventures) Definitions and clarifications CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 3 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Progress of our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) objectives and our corporate responsibility program contribute to the Group’s social license credentials. WorleyParsons is committed to working responsibly and is positioned to help customers meet their own ESG objectives. Who we are Our business We have a business framework which embeds Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) objectives into the way we do business. We help our customers meet the world’s changing resources and energy needs. About us Values Corporate governance We are a partner in delivering sustained Our values are approved by the Board and The Board provides oversight and leadership for economic and social progress, creating are communicated through the business. our business. The Board regards good corporate opportunities for individuals, companies and We exhibit these through: governance as critical in achieving our objectives communities to find and realize their own and high standards of safety and performance. futures. We can only do this with the support Performance The Board has adopted appropriate charters of our shareholders, earned by delivering • Industry leadership in health, safety codes and policies to achieve this. earnings growth and a satisfactory return on and environmental performance We recognize that we have responsibilities to their investment in a responsible manner. • Consistent results for our customers, our shareholders, customers, employees and delivering on our promises suppliers as well as to the environment and the WorleyParsons delivers projects, provides expertise in • People accountable and rewarded for communities in which we operate. performance engineering, procurement and construction and offers a • Innovation delivering value for our Leadership and culture wide range of consulting and advisory services. We cover customers the full lifecycle, from creating new assets to sustaining and • Creating wealth for our shareholders Our approach to a responsible business enhancing operating assets, in the hydrocarbons and power, • Our reputation for honesty, integrity and Relationships ethical practices is our most important asset. infrastructure, minerals, metals and chemicals sectors. Our • We are committed to complying with the law • Open and respectful resources and energy are focused on responding to and • A trusted supplier, partner and conducting our business to the meeting the needs of our customers over the long term and Our people represent many nationalities, and customer highest standards. • Collaborative approach to business • We expect all our people and partners thereby creating value for our shareholders. cultures and speak many languages. (including suppliers and agents) to uphold this • Enduring customer relationships Their energy and resources are directed to commitment and live up to our reputation This report covers all WorleyParsons’ locations as listed on the deliver projects, provide expertise in every day. map (next page), unless otherwise stated. Information on our engineering, procurement and construction and Agility Embedding our approach offer a wide range of consulting and • Smallest assignment to world-scale business focus and financial performance can be found in the advisory services. developments • Our Enterprise Management System (EMS) 2018 Annual Report. • Comprehensive geographic presence establishes a globally consistent approach for how we do business. We cover the full lifecycle, from creating • Global expertise delivered locally new assets to sustaining and enhancing • Our Code of Conduct sets the standard for • Responsive to customer preferences operating assets, in the hydrocarbons, mineral, ethical and professional behavior we expect • Optimum customized solutions our people and partners to uphold. The heartland of our heritage is in the metals, chemicals and infrastructure sectors. • Advice to action • OneWayTM is the integrity framework guiding Our resources and energy are focused on the way we work. resources and energy industries. We are responding to and meeting the needs of our customers over the long term and thereby Leadership • Energy and excitement • EcoNomicsTM describes the philosophy of providing profitable sustainability to our leading players in the hydrocarbons and creating value for our shareholders. • Integrity in all aspects of business • Minimum bureaucracy customers. • The WorleyParsons Foundation is one of the power, infrastructure, minerals, metals • Committed, empowered and innovative people ways we deliver sustained economic and social progress. and chemicals sectors. • Delivering profitable sustainability • Innovation delivering value for • We set targets, monitor and report progress across a number of nonfinancial metrics that our customers define good business practices specific to our business. 18 WorleyParsons Annual Report 2018 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 4 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Where we are WorleyParsons Limited is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). We are a leading global provider of professional services to the resources It is subject to Australian disclosure requirements and standards, including and energy sectors and complex process industries. WorleyParsons employs the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX Listing Rules. 26,050 people globally. WorleyParsons has 116 offices in 42 countries. WorleyParsons’ corporate headquarters is located in Sydney, Australia. Aberdeen Stockton-on-Tees Teesside Anchorage Great Yarmouth Glasgow Edmonton Kincardine Leeds Stavanger Sudbury Manchester Moscow Blackfalds Saskatoon Markham Kitimat Gloucester Delft Aksai Calgary Bowmanville Vancouver, BC Bristol Schwarzheide Bismarck St Johns Ludwigshafen Atyrau Portland St John Woking Billings Almaty Sarnia London Sofia Salt Lake City Madrid Baku Tashkent Beijing Folsom Reading Tianjin Chattanooga Arcadia / Monrovia Atlanta Costa Mesa Houston Basrah Ahmadi Chengdu Nanjing Jacksonville Cairo Shanghai Bayport Manama Baton Rouge Orlando Al Khobar Dubai Yanbu Muscat Hong Kong Doha Abu Dhabi Mumbai Hyderabad Bangkok Manila Chennai Port of Spain Lagos Kota Kinabalu Bogotá Accra Kerteh Kuala Belait Kuala Lumpur Kuantan Nairobi Singapore Luanda Jakarta Dili WorleyParsons Limited ABN 17 096 090 158 Mackay São Paulo Pretoria Gladstone Rio de Janeiro Maputo Level 15, 141 Walker Street Johannesburg Brisbane North Sydney NSW 2060 Santiago Cape Town Perth Bunbury Adelaide Newcastle Sydney Australia Geelong Auckland New Plymouth Hastings Melbourne Wellington Phone: +61 2 8923 6866 Christchurch www.worleyparsons.com CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 5 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com About this report This report has been written for our investors, communities, customers and people to celebrate Selected corporate responsibility performance data in our 2015 Annual Report and 2015 the successes of our people and the Company in progressing corporate responsibility. Corporate Responsibility Performance Report was provided limited assurance by Ernst & Young. During the assurance process, a number of recommendations were incorporated to We use a variety of channels for corporate responsibility reporting this year (1 July 2017 to 30 improve the reporting process with embedded controls and other enhancements. The extent of June 2018, unless otherwise stated) including this report, the Corporate Responsibility section this assurance activity is described in the Independent Limited Assurance Report. We continued in the 2018 Annual Report and corporate responsibility information on our Company website. to apply the reviewed reporting processes for this 2018 report. Information in this report is aligned to the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress and the GRI sustainability reporting guidelines. All references in this report to ‘WorleyParsons', 'Group', ‘we’, 'our', ‘us’ or ‘Company’ are references to WorleyParsons Limited and each of its controlled entities. Our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Performance Report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards Framework and the content is rated as ‘Comprehensive’. This report contains all the generic disclosures on management approach and indicators of each identified material aspect. The full GRI Content Index is provided from page 73. WorleyParsons releases its sustainability reports annually according to the financial year (1 July to 30 June). Last year’s Corporate Responsibility Performance Report for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 was released in October 2017. Definitions and clarifications are provided for the corporate responsibility indicators. References to dollars ($) in this report are Australian dollars unless stated otherwise. The Corporate Responsibility Performance Report is approved by the CEO. Villages in India have been supported with WorleyParsons comprises more than 200 entities. A list of significant entities can be found in power, schools and water the 2018 Annual Report. via WorleyParsons CR activities. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 6 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Commitments, endorsements and awards Corporate responsibility 6TH YEAR WorleyParsons supports the 10 principles of the Global Compact (GC) with respect to human rights, REPORTING commitments United Nations labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the GC and its principles part of the Global Compact strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and to engage in collaborative projects which WorleyParsons is committed to working advance the broader development goals of the United Nations (UN). with our customers and suppliers to achieve results that grow our company, reward our 2ND YEAR United Nations REPORTING The UN developed 17 Sustainable Development Goals with the aim to eradicate all forms of poverty by shareholders and our people and contribute Sustainable 2030. This year, we see WorleyParsons’ teams continue to embrace the goals into our customers’ and our to our communities. We acknowledge our Development own activities, to measure impact. responsibilities to the communities in which Goals we operate. Our Corporate Responsibility 6TH YEAR Policy outlines our commitments to: REPORTING Global Reporting We align our corporate responsibility reporting process with the internationally-recognized GRI Governance, Ethics and Transparency, Our People, Human Rights, Community, Fair Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting framework. Operating Practices and Supply Chain, and the Environment. 9TH YEAR REPORTING Carbon We have participated in the CDP since 2009. CDP is an international not-for-profit organization providing Disclosure a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental Global reporting commitments Project information. Since 2012, we have led corporate disclosure with an integrated reporting process aligned 6TH YEAR WorleyParsons complies with all mandatory diversity reporting requirements. In accordance with the REPORTING Workplace to leading international reporting standards. Australian Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012, relevant entities within WorleyParsons have submitted Gender Equality This year we succeeded in delivering ESG Workplace Gender Equality Reports for the reporting period. These reports are available on our Company Report related reporting for: website. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 7 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Commitments, endorsements and awards WorleyParsons was awarded a silver recognition level by EcoVadis for our CSR Scorecard. This result places our Company among the top 30% of performers evaluated by EcoVadis. WorleyParsons was recognized as a 2017 Top 100 Global Energy Leader and a Top 25 Oil & Gas Related Equipment and Services Global Leader by Thomson Reuters. The study, the first holistic assessment of its kind, objectively identifies today’s leading energy companies with the fortitude to excel in a complex business environment. WorleyParsons was awarded the Global Mobility Team of the Year (large program) award at the FEM EMEA EMMAs (Expatriate Management & Mobility Awards). The awards celebrate the best and brightest of the global mobility industry and the supporting suppliers and vendors. WorleyParsons was named in the top 15 EPC contractors in the Middle East by Refining & Petrochemicals Middle East. WorleyParsons was named the fifth best International Design Firm by Engineering News Record, for the second consecutive year WorleyParsons has been named in the top five. WorleyParsons was named in the Top 200 Environmental Firms by Engineering News Record. ENR’s list of the Top 200 Environmental Firms. WorleyParsons was awarded the EPC Contractor of the Year Award at the second LNG Solutions Global Summit. WorleyParsons has also been shortlisted in the same category for 2018. WorleyParsons was named the 27th most innovative company in Australia according to The Australian Financial Review. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 8 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 2. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MATERIALITY We developed a corporate responsibility materiality process that embraces the Sustainable Development Goals, as they are adopted by our business and are becoming universally recognized, across all industries. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 9 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Corporate responsibility materiality Corporate responsibility materiality definition Materiality study process WorleyParsons has defined corporate responsibility materiality as the process involved in determining relevant (or material) topics for an organization that has a direct or indirect impact Identification: Select the material issues for analysis on the ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for the 1. Review global measures of sustainability performance e.g. GRI, UN SDGs organization, its stakeholders, the environment and society at large. 2. Select issues that provides simplicity and a universal global relevance/ This year, we developed a corporate responsibility materiality understanding/language process that embraces the 17 UN SDGs. This process aligns with the GRI reporting framework. Prioritization: Source stakeholder feedback Four stakeholder groups 1. Investors 2. Customers Corporate responsibility materiality review 3. Employees The materiality review was conducted to understand the current material issues affecting our 4. Communities key stakeholders. Our key stakeholder groups were classified as: Analyze: Normalize and plot data • investors; Ensuring equal weighting for each stakeholder group and charting the survey • customers; results into a matrix format • employees; and • communities. Validation: Reviewed by leadership/stakeholders We updated our process this year to engage each of our stakeholder groups directly (via Results prepared for review and discussion survey), seeking their views on three aspects of materiality: Action: Leadership adopts the guidance • what SDGs are important to you?; • what SDGs will have the biggest impact on WorleyParsons in terms of creating risks and 1. Influence opportunities?; and 2. Reporting • what SDGs do WorleyParsons have the most influence over to improve global civilization? 3. Measures and targets 4. Strategy We received over 500 responses to our survey, capturing the views of 35% of our top 50 shareholders and 60 of our community partners, across all of our global locations. Review/monitor: Complete all actions and monitor progress CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 10 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Corporate responsibility materiality review Materiality matrix WorleyParsons 2018 materiality matrix – impact vs concern Our 2018 corporate responsibility materiality review is represented in the matrix opposite. The Mapping the issues that are most important (across all of our stakeholders including our vertical axis represents our stakeholders’ views on which issues will have the most impact to people) against the issues with the most impact to our business (as determined by our people). WorleyParsons. The horizontal axis represents our stakeholders’ views on which issues are most important to them. We analyzed the data and reviewed the top material issues to determine if we are sufficiently High addressing them within our processes, policies and overall strategy. The table below shows Affordable and how we are progressing the SDGs by linking to some of the key actions we are taking: Clean Energy Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Top material issues Examples of progress in FY2018 Affordable and Clean Climate change program (p44), Sustainable Cities and Communities Energy New Energy (p46) Impact to WorleyParsons Clear Water Good Health and Wellbeing Health and safety (p60) and Sanitation Climate Action Quality Education Education with a diversity and inclusion lens (p69) Responsible Consumption and Production Climate change strategic actions (p45), Decent Work and Climate Action Greenhouse gas emissions (p49) Economic Growth Our water expertise (p47), Clean Water and Sanitation Sanitation solutions in Papua New Guinea (p51) Quality Education Decent Work and Social and economic benefits of a megaproject (p36), Economic Growth Development of sustainable supply chain partners (p27) Good Health and Well Being Industry, Innovation and Nurturing a culture of innovation (p35), Infrastructure Supply chain innovation (p28) Low Level of Stakeholder Concern High Responsible Consumption Energy performance (p48), Communities Supply Chain Economic Environment Our People and Production Requis – trading surplus supplies (p28) Socio-environmental project in the Brazilian Amazon (p73), Sustainable Cities and Improving social infrastructure (p70), Communities WorleyParsons Foundation projects (p71) CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 11 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Influencing economic, social and environmental issues Where can WorleyParsons influence? Which SDGs can WorleyParsons influence the most? We asked our stakeholder groups which SDGs they felt WorleyParsons had the most opportunity to positively improve by 2030. The results are shown on the graph on the No Poverty right. The top five SDGs were: Zero Hunger • Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; Good Health and Well Being • Affordable and Clean Energy; Quality Education • Decent Work and Economic Growth; Gender Equality Affordable and Clean Energy • Sustainable Cities and Communities; and Clean Water and Sanitation • Responsible Consumption and Production. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Affordable and Clean Energy Comparing 2018 to 2016 Decent Work and Economic Growth Impact to WorleyParsons We completed our first materiality study in 2016. A desktop Sustainable Cities and Communities Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure analysis identified 24 key material issues affecting our Reduced Inequalities Climate Action Clear Water and Sanitation business. We then surveyed key stakeholders to determine SDG Sustainable Cities and Communities which issues were highest priority. Responsible Consumption and Production Responsible Consumption and Production In 2017, we started our transition to using the UN SDGs in Decent Work and Economic Growth the way we monitor, measure and direct our CR performance. Climate Action We mapped the top issues from our 2016 materiality study Life Below Water Quality Education against those SDGs that were applicable to them. We Life on Land identified a shift from 2016 to 2018 in an increased priority Good Health and Well Being for environmental and people issues. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Partnership For The Goals Influence Level of Stakeholder Concern Communities Supply Chain Economic Environment Our People CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 12 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com WorleyParsons joins war on waste in Western Australia WorleyParsons has become an active participant in the war on waste by helping design Western Australia's (WA) first plastics recycling plant after our people were surprised and disappointed to learn the state was sending used plastic abroad. GreenBatch, a ‘for purpose’ company, intends to turn plastic bottles into filament for 3D printers, aims to have WA's first plastics reprocessing plant up and running by July 2019 after approaching WorleyParsons for pro bono design and engineering advice late last year. Some two dozen engineers from WorleyParsons' offices in Perth and London have been working on the project in their spare time. When I put a plastic bottle into a bin, my belief was that that was being recycled. I didn't realise that Australia was shipping its waste overseas. We shared some of the material that had come from GreenBatch with our staff and most people were surprised and disappointed, and that's partially I think what has generated the interest within the organisation. said Michael Dunn, Western Australia (WA) Location Director. GreenBatch initially estimated that it would cost $150,000 to build a plant that could process 300 kilograms of plastic bottles a week, but found that its budget would actually allow it to process 300 kilograms an hour. If the plant runs 24 hours a day, it could process 131 million plastic bottles annually. The filament made at the recycling plant will be donated to schools. Giving WorleyParsons staff an opportunity to be involved in community projects helped the engineering group remain an employer of choice, Mr Dunn said. It's not a feel good project only for WorleyParsons, this is about satisfying the community requirements and the staff requirements to be involved in projects that ultimately add value to the communities in which we work and live. GreenBatch is the first pro-bono environmental project for WorleyParsons in WA. Image courtesy of Engineers Australia CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 13 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com WorleyParsons creates a Social Together we have progressed some of the Sustainable Development Goals Impact Postcard to send to customers to celebrate their SDG performance Living above the breadline Health and wellbeing Education and employment provided food to those who have limited or no food? reduced the number of child and/or maternal deaths? improved the standard of education in an established assisted someone who has a lack of finances or improved the health of children? institution? Monitoring social impact can be a resources? provided temporary work to local workers above local improved the health of new or expectant mothers? supported the formation and growth of small to medium sized enterprises? challenge. directly improved the physical or mental health of minimum wage levels? demonstrated an improvement in working conditions reduced the number of child workers, people in forced any project stakeholder (staff, client, contractor, local community) during the course of the project? between when the project started and when it finished There are many schools of thought and for any project stakeholder? labour or in modern slavery? assisted in reducing the symptoms of illness or disease? provided long term employment opportunities for any numerous quantitative and qualitative improved access to shelter and warmth to anyone who is homeless? project stakeholder after project completion? methods to measure an organization’s reduced the number of youth not in employment or impact on society. Sustainable Future education? At WorleyParsons, we have chosen to Equality Water and sanitation Affordable clean energy integrate the United Nations’ Sustainable Corporate Responsibility supported any organisations that work to eliminate discrimination, violence and/or abuse to girls and women? helped reduce the amount of man-made substances being dumped into natural waterways (rivers, lakes, seas etc.) made use of renewable energy at any of your project offices or sites? Development Goals as a framework for provided equal pay to women and men performing the hazardous or not? participated inDear customer, any energy efficient practises such as tracking positive progress. same job regardless of qualification or experience? protected any water related eco-systems including switching off any electrical appliances when not in use? mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes? supported any project stakeholders in sharing any This project supported innovation we energy worked in renewable on together sources and/ has Selected projects, upon completion, domestic care including child care? improved access to clean and affordable water? or energy consumption? progressed some of the Sustainable supported any organisations that work to eliminate improved access to safe and equitable sanitation? monitored and reduced its carbon footprint over the produce a ‘postcard’ styled report for our discriminations to disadvantaged or marginalised people course of theDevelopment project? Goals. including ethnic minorities, indigenous people and responsibly consumed water during the course of the project? minimized the use of fossil fuels during the course of the customers, linking the successes of the members of the LBGT community? provided employment opportunities and/or support to any project such asWeusing proudvehicles arecompany of this cycling/walking to and from work sites? work and wanted or carpooling/ to project to progressing the SDGs. project stakeholders suffering from a mental or physical share this with you so you can tell others! disability? The postcard is then issued to the Best regards, customer as part of a project review. Our Infrastructure, cities and communities Sustainable living Ethics and legacy The WorleyParsons team team at WorleyParsons is in the process Sustainable Development Goal Postcard for: helped in the creation of or improvement of not directly polluted either the land or air? reduced any forms of discrimination? of digitizing this assessment to allow transportation in the vicinity of your project sites Project name including reducing congestion? supported the preservation of local wildlife? improved connections to the community involving them in decision making that might affect them? SDG progress monitoring to be completed consumed only the minimum amount of non-labour increased access to information and communication technologies? resources required to complete the project? provided contributions financial or time to the anywhere, at any time, on any device. community? reduced its indirect impact on desertification and/or improved urban and or rural safety in the local community? Customer name deforestation such as reducing the use of paper? reduced violence, abuse and drug/alcohol use? help support the preservation of any cultural or improved the security and stability of housing in the local traditional heritage and/or customs? community? actively supported innovation and R&D in technological upgrades in industrialDate sectors? CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 14 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 3. GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY We recognize that WorleyParsons’ reputation for honesty, integrity and ethical dealings is one of its key business assets and a critical factor in ensuring the Company’s ongoing success. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 15 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Governance highlights 2018 at a glance Below are some key highlights of the work we have been doing in governance, ethics and transparency: Governance and responsible business WorleyParsons is committed to working responsibly. We have a business framework which embeds Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) objectives and our corporate responsibility 26,000+ 18 program, as the way we do business. We are committed to improving our tools and processes to Staff, contractors and business Different languages maintain our social license credentials and meet developments in our stakeholder expectations. partners have completed our available for our Code of WorleyParsons is positioned to help customers meet their own ESG objectives. Page 4 online Code of Conduct training Conduct Ethics WorleyParsons is committed to honest and ethical conduct and complying with the law across its global business. In accordance with our Code of Conduct, we internally investigate all matters that raise concerns. WorleyParsons has policies and processes in place in relation to expected standards of ethical conduct from our people, including in relation to gifts, entertainment and hospitality. There are consequences if our policies and processes are breached. Page 20 42 40 Data protection Number of times our ethics Countries where the ethics Protecting the personal data of our employees, customers and suppliers is a critical component helpline was accessed by helpline is available in maintaining WorleyParsons’ reputation. Page 19 our people Transparency We continue to provide periodic and continuous disclosure to the market applying ASX Listing Rules. This year, we updated our Company website and reached out to over 500,000 followers of our social media platforms to communicate to our broader community. Our internal communication intranet sites, online discussion groups and emails deliver important messages. Our people are encouraged to openly share their opinions, subject matter expertise and voice 200+ their concerns. Page 22 Ethical background checks on our business partners completed CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 16 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Governance: our approach to working responsibly WorleyParsons is committed to working Our approach to be a responsible business is part of our culture responsibly Our reputation for honesty, integrity, lawful practices, transparency and ethical dealings is our most important asset. We expect WorleyParsons must comply with the Corporations Act 2001 all our people and partners to uphold this commitment and safeguard our reputation every day. and with the ASX Listing Rules. A Governance 2020 Program We have a globally consistent approach that is updated regularly to industry leading standards, that prompts improvement and has commenced, to review and design an implementation drives innovation. program to adopt the 4th Edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and Our Code of Conduct sets the standards for the ethical and professional behavior we expect our people and partners to uphold Recommendations. in seeking to ensure our reputation is protected. All people receive Code of Conduct training and are encouraged to act in accordance with it. We have a business framework which embeds Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) objectives and our corporate OneWay™ is the integrity framework guiding the way we work throughout WorleyParsons. It encompasses the tools responsibility program as the way we do business. and processes that we follow to ensure the wellbeing of people, assets and the environment. It supports us in achieving extraordinary outcomes with care and integrity. We are committed to improving our tools and processes to maintain our social license credentials and meet EcoNomics™ describes the philosophy embedded within our processes that provides profitable sustainability to our customers. developments in our stakeholder expectations. WorleyParsons Our Enterprise Management System is supported by our leadership with training that explains the link between policies, is positioned to help customers meet their own ESG processes and practical guidelines. objectives. Page 4 shows how the relationships between our Company purpose, values, culture, leadership and strategy are We set targets, monitor and report progress across a number of non-financial metrics that define good business practices specific embedded across the business. to our business, including our improved responsible business assessments (see page 19) and social impact postcard (see page 14). Corporate Responsibility Champions volunteer to provide and drive local activities that demonstrate our commitment, as described in the Our Community section. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 17 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Celebrating success with 365 wind turbines in 362 days Amazing People campaign As an organization made up of lots of individuals, we encourage everyone to be a partner in delivering sustained economic What makes a person amazing? progress. We do this through our At WorleyParsons, we define it by the work we do and the communities we help. customer projects, WorleyParsons Foundation projects and hundreds Our team on the ground in northern Kenya built lasting relationships with all of local corporate responsibility stakeholders to guarantee a wonderful outcome for the surrounding communities. themed activities. Refer to the examples throughout this report Thank you to the entire project team for your tireless devotion to and our social media pages. the upliftment of the region and instilling the importance of health In 2018, we have celebrated the and safety practices into the local workforce. success of the individual as well as We know you’re doing amazing work and we want you to tell us about it. the Group, through our Amazing Nominate your project on the Amazing People site. People campaign. Let’s celebrate the amazing things our people do. Amazing people doing amazing things. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 18 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Responsible business assessments and data protection Strengthening our customer and project due diligence Data protection The responsible business assessments we perform strengthen customer and project due Protecting the personal data of our employees, customers and suppliers is a critical data diligence. We want to know that our customers and other business partners take a responsible component in maintaining WorleyParsons’ reputation. approach to business as seriously as we do, before we agree to proceed to work with them. With increasing risks and regulatory expectations, such as the European Union's General Responsible business assessments were introduced in 2018. They are now embedded across Data Protection Regulation, we now have a dedicated team who manage the exposure with a our business within our sales processes and risk assessments for new projects and contracts. number of solutions such as: We assess the risk profile of customers and projects in five areas: • multiple intrusion blocking; • Trade sanctions • Credit worthiness • virus detecting/cleaning; • Ethical business practices • Carbon emissions • data encryption; and • Social license • system monitoring software systems. The purpose of the responsible business assessments is to strengthen customer and project due diligence activities. These are in place to prevent and/or stop unauthorized system activity. “ We make decisions to proceed with bids and work with customers after we have considered the possibility of business disputations and referred reputation damage, and have an appropriate level of risk management in place. This protects the interests of all of our stakeholders: investors, customers, employees and communities. Our obligations in protecting personal data are increasing with more risks, the enactment of new laws and data protection Databases and tools provide information regarding confirmed legal judgments or equivalent for: regulation. Our Code of Conduct demands that we meet both • bribery and corruption; • labor management issues; and the letter and intent of these laws. • human rights violations; • safety. CEO, Andrew Wood • environmental damages; CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 19 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Ethical behavior from top to bottom Good business practices and ethics The Code of Conduct specifies that the Company expects our Seeking advice. Our people are encouraged to seek advice people will: on ethical and lawful behavior and matters related to WorleyParsons regards good corporate governance as a organization integrity from their manager. However, if the critical element in our business practices and culture. The • strive to achieve the highest ethical conduct, questioning manager is unavailable or involved in a breach or potential cornerstone of our OneWay™ integrity framework is ethical, unethical behavior and reporting breaches and potential breach of the Code of Conduct, our people should approach sustainable business practices. breaches of the Code of Conduct; their location people leader for advice. Issues are escalated to • comply with the law and avoid conflicts of interest; the Ethics Committee for advice or action. WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct guides our people, including directors, as to the expected standards of behavior. • act honestly and fairly in all their business dealings; Reporting potential breaches to the Code of Conduct. Our • be open, accurate and professional in all their people are obliged to report any breach or potential breaches communications; of the Code of Conduct. Those breaches encompass unethical • be economical and responsible in using Company and or unlawful behavior and matters related to organizational customer resources; integrity. Our people may make those reports to their • respect the confidentiality of any information from or about manager, or if the manager is involved in the breach or our customers and others; potential breach, to their location people leader. • be reliable and diligent in meeting their responsibilities; and Ethics Helpline. Our Ethics Helpline was used to log issues 40 • respect the rights of others and support community values. times this year. It is an online and telephone breach reporting system, and is available to our people to enable them to The Code of Conduct is available in 17 languages in addition to report breaches or potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. english. All our people: The helpline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In • receive a copy of the Code of Conduct and training when addition, our people may also contact a member of our Ethics they start with the Company and thereafter on an annual Committee, Group Leadership Team, management and people basis; and teams directly if they: • can access the Code of Conduct from the Company’s • believe the breach or potential breach is serious; intranet or request a copy from their location people leader. • have concerns about making a report; or Gift registers. Expectations around the receiving and • are not satisfied with the response to the report. giving of gifts is outlined in our Code of Conduct. To ensure transparency, WorleyParsons maintains gift registers. Protection to whistle blowers. We have a policy that protects ETHICS HELPLINE whistle blowers and encourages reporting of contraventions. The key mechanisms for the protection of whistle blowers Confidentiality is assured are confidentiality, anonymity, protection of employment conditions and appropriate support to prevent any other forms of retaliation (e.g. loss of opportunities, shunning, ill treatment, harassment, etc.). CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 20 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Fraud and bribery Fraud and bribery Code of Conduct Training WorleyParsons complies with all applicable prevention of bribery and corruption legislation and extends the requirement of compliance, including This year, our online Code of Conduct training the prohibition of facilitation payments, to third party providers via our Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct. was delivered to more than 26,000 staff, contractors and business partners. Our Code of Conduct is aligned with the expectations of international compliance regulations and provides a benchmark for ethical conduct in all aspects of our global business. Our Code of Conduct applies to: Our Code of Conduct provides clear guidelines for our people in reporting unlawful and unethical behavior to their immediate manager, an ethics Our People officer, their people manager, their managing director and the CEO, without the fear of retaliation. WorleyParsons also provides access to the Ethics Helpline, which is accessible online and telephone for all our people. All directors, employees and contractors of WorleyParsons. Our Code of Conduct prohibits any activity in relation to bribery and corruption. We provide all relevant employees with training in anti-bribery and anti-corruption via online prevention of bribery training courses. Whenever they are: Working to achieve SDG aims: Transparency International • on company business; • acting as our representative; and Various international and domestic developments have put the spotlight on corporate governance, transparency and accountability. Our corporate membership with Transparency International Australia • identifiable as our people. gives WorleyParsons a means of committing publicly to support Transparency International’s work in Australia and the region. Our Partners Over the past six years of membership, our teams have participated in a number of events organized by All agents, subcontractors, consultants, Transparency International Australia and coalition partners. We have also contributed to Transparency representatives, intermediaries, suppliers and International on global developments related to our industry sector. We believe we are showing industry other parties who act for WorleyParsons. leadership in relation to the core principles we uphold, and campaign with others to advance. Whenever they are acting for WorleyParsons. SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. Keeps us on the right side of the law and educates every individual of their obligations SDG17 – Partnerships For The Goals. Working with companies who share our values and support of the SDGs CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 21 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Transparency Transparency Post engagement: We continue to provide periodic and continuous disclosure to the market applying ASX Listing Rules. Social actions: 942 This year we updated our company website and reached out to over 500,000 followers of our Clicks: 4,300 social media platforms to communicate to our broader community. Likes: 872 Our internal communication intranet sites, online discussion groups and emails deliver important messages. Our people are encouraged to openly share their opinions, subject matter expertise and voice their concerns. Social media Our social media following is steadily growing and is larger than our industry peers. The social media platform LinkedIn accounted for the highest follower growth with approximately 485,000 followers, with approximately 39,000 new followers in the past year. These followers have interacted via comments and likes on the 391 posts we've made, across a number of interest topics. 6000 Additional LinkedIn followers each month Our LinkedIn followers represent 5000 these industries Mining and metals 16,634 4000 Mechanical or 22,461 3000 industrial engineering Civil engineering 24,393 2000 Construction 60,876 1000 Oil and energy 155,412 Apr 17 Jun 17 Aug 17 Oct 17 Dec 17 Feb 18 Apr 18 Jun 18 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 22 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Changing lives in India with the Pollinate Energy Fellowship Program Over the past three years, 24 WorleyParsons colleagues from 11 countries, across five continents, have joined Pollinate Energy in India for two weeks on a fellowship program, helping to provide life-changing products to the people who need them most. Nearly 400 million people in India are living in energy poverty, relying on kerosene for lighting. When kerosene burns, it releases carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide and various nitrogen oxides, all of which can have a detrimental effect on health. The light from a kerosene lamp is not bright enough to read or study by, affecting people’s education. It is an environmental issue, too – for every liter of kerosene burnt, around 2.5 kilograms of carbon dioxide is produced. The WorleyParsons Foundation, together with Pollinate Energy, is working to supply affordable solar-powered lighting systems to those living without electricity. The WorleyParsons Foundation supports volunteering opportunities for colleagues, allowing them to be directly or indirectly involved with its activities. The Pollinate Energy Professionals Fellowship aims to bring professionals with diverse skill sets, ideas and perspectives together to resolve challenging hurdles. To overcome the challenge of getting renewable energy into the slums, Pollinate Energy train local people – called Pollinators – to sell solar lights in their neighborhood. The hope is that affordable lighting will lead to economic growth through education. “One of the Pollinators told us that her 11-year-old son studies with a Pollinate Energy solar lantern and hopes to be a doctor,” recounts Elizabeth Subramaniam from Advisian in Melbourne. WorleyParsons colleagues work with Pollinators, explaining the benefits of solar power. “Communities we visited had a diverse understanding of solar power,” explains Monica Roulston, Procurement Administrator in Edmonton, who visited in 2017. “Some had little or no familiarity and others had already purchased and set up their own in-home systems to meet their energy needs.” CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 23 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 4. SUPPLY CHAIN Enterprise and supplier development programs are crucial to the Company’s corporate and social responsibility agenda, which calls for not only active participation in addressing socioeconomic challenges, but also much-needed transformation in the engineering sector. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 24 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Supply chain highlights 2018 at a glance WorleyParsons understands the responsibilities we have to our customers when selecting suppliers, as well as the opportunity to develop local supply chains where we operate. We also acknowledge the potential risks introduced by our suppliers and contractors that can impact our operations and projects. Some key development this year were: Sustainable supply chain. We value suppliers and contractors with high ethical standards and set strict expectations on them as stated in our supply chain policies and codes of conduct. This 100% 5,000+ year we addressed the changing nature of how business is conducted, especially around the suppliers self-registered in Of suppliers agree to our Supply area of ethics and data privacy. Page 26 our online Supplier Portal Chain Code of Conduct Enterprise development. We develop, mentor and support supply chain partners in our local communities, with examples from South Africa and Canada. Page 27 Supply chain innovation. We have developed industry leading systems to manage end-toend supply chain solutions for our customers and our own internal procurement. We continue to innovate to maximize commercial and environmental benefits for our customers with the development of a spare parts trading platform to reduce consumption and waste. Page 28 $500 million USD$8.6billion of operational (overhead) Of 'total installed costs' on procurement spend will be managed one of our projects where we in one central system managed procurement on behalf of our customer Values are measured in Australian dollars. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 25 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Sustainable supply chain Supply chain policies Assessing and selecting suppliers Supplier Portal Our minimum and preferred requirements for suppliers and contractors Across our industries and operations, there are opportunities to lead WorleyParsons has a supplier are set out in the Supply Chain Code of Conduct. The areas covered suppliers to better ethical, social and environmental performance. There portal accessed from its company include corporate governance and ethics, labor/workplace management, are increasing expectations to be transparent on selection processes, website, which tracks key occupational health and safety, environment, suppliers and community expose breaches and encourage ethical conduct where we have influence information (such as supplier engagement. within our own and customers’ supply chains. Recently, we have been performance and key metrics) on asked to provide further information on our approach to ethical and our suppliers and contractors, This year, we updated the Supply Chain Code of Conduct, addressing the sustainable procurement and respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. including some information Global Data Protection Requirements. on their sustainable practices. Local content plans are in place in many countries where there are WorleyParsons favors suppliers and contractors who share our Suppliers self-register and provide legislative requirements for local content of both suppliers and employees. commitment to: information on their performance Sometimes, it is our customers who are the contracting party, and in corporate governance and ethics, • supporting corporate responsibility; we manage or support their purchases and/or subcontracts in labor/workplace management, • supporting human rights and fair employment practices; circumstances where they do not have their own equivalent contract occupational health and safety, • maintaining and improving the work environment so that it is safe and provisions. Where this occurs, WorleyParsons offers its own Code of environment, and community healthy for all staff and visitors; Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct and associated sustainable engagement. • conducting their business operations in a way that protects and procurement processes. sustains the environment; WorleyParsons assesses suppliers for our operational businesses as • adopting similar principles and practices to those in the code well as our project delivery services, often representing our customers. in selecting, monitoring and managing their own suppliers and Various tools track supplier performance and key metrics for project contractors; and delivery services. • understanding their responsibility to the local communities on which they have an impact and from which they profit. All our project procurement and contracting teams operate from the guidance provided in our policies and standards for procurement and contracts, by which goods and services are acquired by WorleyParsons. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 26 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Development of sustainable supply chain partners Sustainable project delivery WorleyParsons South Africa’s enterprise and supplier development Our procurement teams can play a very influential role on projects, managing the supply of continues into its sixth year materials, equipment and contractors for projects. Now in its sixth year, the WorleyParsons Enterprise and Supplier Development (ESD) Program Supporting local suppliers, contractors and workers aids the development of skills and provides mentoring, support, skills transfer, knowledge transfer, multinational brand leverage capabilities, and provides economic benefits to the local community. and partnership for a number of young local businesses throughout the region, across three levels of the ESD Program. WorleyParsons South Africa has and continues to provide skills and During the contracting stage, integrating the economic, environmental and social development knowledge transfer on an ongoing basis through the availability of its technical experts within objectives into tender documents and contracts ensures that contractors and suppliers South Africa and globally where possible. understand all project constraints and goals. These proactive actions minimize the risk of unnecessary schedule delays and change orders as work progresses. The program assists ESD partner companies with capability and capacity building, with special focus on value-added activities within the South African industry through service-related We have developed sustainable procurement procedures to support our customers with a functions. Through the program, WorleyParsons helps the ESD companies with their branding, wide range of projects including greenfield mine developments, offshore oil platforms, and marketing documents, legal compliance, financial compliance, governance, positioning in the fabrication shops. market and introduction to potential clients that WorleyParsons is already servicing. Economic development of our supply chain As the program matures, we expect to see more and more joint delivery of services whilst exposing our partner SMEs to world-class delivery systems and transferring skills and In order to promote opportunities for local and under-represented groups, we have adapted our capabilities to help the industry as a whole grow. procurement processes to track, manage and promote the inclusion of local communities. The procurement team can support economic development by: • providing training and delivering supplier information sessions for small local companies that may not have the required experience and skills to work on large engineering, procurement and construction management projects but are interested in opportunities; • creating small bid packages to allow local firms to bid on work; • creating a project-specific procurement website for firms to upload their capabilities and learn about opportunities; • allowing for training and skills development to be incorporated into work packages; and • using a bid scoring system that can help provide employment for the local community. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 27 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Supply chain innovation Consolidation of supply chain management systems Requis – trading surplus supplies WorleyParsons has developed industry leading end-to-end supply chain solutions for our In a move into digital services, WorleyParsons has launched a digital solution to trade excess own operations and are able to offer custom solutions to our customers in order to improve surplus equipment and materials, improving the efficiency and environmental performance of its project delivery outcomes and reduce execution risks. industry partners. The online trading platform, Requis, enables industrial operators to buy and sell surplus industrial equipment such as cables, valves, pumps, transformers and switchgear. Requis We manage more than $500million of goods and services from suppliers to support our is owned and managed by WorleyParsons Inc. internal operations. This year, we have identified and commenced the rollout of an enterprise system to centrally manage our corporate procurement, consolidating a number of previously WorleyParsons has a long history with supplying spare parts to the power industry sector, having managed systems. The benefits will be significant, including greater transparency owned the John Thompson Engineering business in Australia for over 20 years, serving the local and administration savings. power sector. The Requis platform draws upon the extensive industry experience gained from successfully delivering projects across 42 countries of operation, mainly in the resources and Industry leading project procurement energy sectors. A number of customers are using the platform as awareness grows. Partnering with global software provider AVEVA, WorleyParsons is providing industry leading solutions for engineering, procurement and construction materials management excellence. The combined systems and service offering of an enterprise resource management solution is cost and time efficient along with many other features. ERM Enterprise Resource Management Catalog and Specification Management Engineering Material Control Project Planning Supply Chain Management Advisian Digital is pleased to announce that after a • Procurement schedule and status successful pilot program, • RFQ through release of purchase order Shell Qatar's Gas -to• Expediting and logistics Liquids (GTL) Operations has awarded them a fiveyear contract, managing the Site Material Control sale of materials and goods via the Requis Marketplace Primavera • Construction and installation work packages P6 • 4D simulation and constraints handling CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 28 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Leading industrial construction WorleyParsonsCord is an example of the economic and social contributions our operations make in the local community through Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) solutions. For the past 40 years, WorleyParsonsCord has grown to become a leader in industrial construction. Members of the WorleyParsonsCord group of companies are proud to be regularly recognized as top employers in both Alberta and Canada. WorleyParsonsCord provides EPC, module fabrication and assembly and field-construction services across western Canada. Each year, we produce around 600 transportable modules for major oil and gas companies and other industrial companies in western Canada. This takes place at our modularization assembly yards in Edmonton and Blackfalds as well as our fabrication shop in Edmonton. Our work often involves the construction of heavy oil facilities, oil sands development, gas plants, power stations and a host of other heavy-industrial projects. WorleyParsonsCord supports Indigenous apprentices in Alberta. In 2017, thanks to a partnership between Red Deer College, Montana First Nation and WorleyParsonsCord, Red Deer College launched the Virtual Reality and Co-operative Trades – The Next Generation Program. The program offered Aboriginal students the opportunity to develop the skills and experience needed for careers in welding. The program is funded in part by the Government of Canada's Flexibility and Innovation in Apprenticeship Technical Training program. The program included two groups of 25 students. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 29 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 5. ECONOMIC We are positioned well geographically and with the right capabilities to be able to support our customers in their development plans to ensure they meet the world’s energy needs.​ CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 30 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Economic highlights 2018 at a glance Financial stability and improved economic performance underpin WorleyParsons’ future success. Opposite are some highlights of the key achievements and economic contributions we have made to the communities where we operate in FY2018: Strategic positioning and financial performance We have strong operating and financial metrics reflecting our performance, as described in the $450m Annual Report. Page 32 Approximate total paid in effective tax payments (2017) Broad economic development and tax transparency We make significant direct and indirect economic contributions to the economies where we operate through taxes paid and employment. Through our work, we create training, development and employment opportunities to many, across our communities. Page 33 Innovation and digital disruption Digital disruption is putting a premium on innovative people with real world experience and our people are well placed to deliver. As we nurture a culture of innovation and respect for digital 460 disruption, our teams frequently launch commercial offerings, while our Innovation Incubator Engineering performance generated eight new ideas that were innovation seed funded. 460 further ideas were submitted improvement ideas generated to our Engineering Improvement Ideas Challenge. Page 35 8 Ideas and concepts, submitted through the incubator, received innovation seed funding, supporting breakthrough thinking by our colleagues Values are measured in Australian dollars. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 31 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Strategic positioning and financial performance FY19 Strategic Priorities Economic sustainability Acting concurrently on priorities across three horizons “We are positioned well geographically and with the right capabilities to be able to support our customers in their development plans to ensure they meet the world’s energy needs.” Horizon 3 CEO Andrew Wood Emerging markets & products WorleyParsons makes an important contribution to local communities and regional economies Horizon 2 by delivering solid financial returns to our shareholders, working with local businesses in our Growth Potential New Energy supply chain, investing in community organizations and employing local people. Taxes paid (including power networks) disclosures for FY2018 are in the Tax Contribution Report 2017 found on our company website. Chemicals & Digital Horizon 1 Petrochemicals (Europe) (Internal and External) Market conditions Core growth Minerals & Metals Belt & Road Initiative WorleyParsons is on a journey to fully realize the benefits from reshaping and resizing (MENA Phosphates and the business over the past few years. We have been taking strategic steps to reposition Onshore Conventional Australia) the business for future success, reducing internal costs, improving customer productivity, Offshore Refining optimizing the portfolio of offices and strengthening our balance sheet. To learn more about our Maintenance, LNG strategic priorities and strategic architecture, refer to the Annual Report 2018 microsite. Modifications (including LNG to Power) and Operations (MMO) Saudi Arabia Customer satisfaction Resource Infrastructure WorleyParsons is dedicated to delivering what we promise. Customer satisfaction stems from the need to be sensitive to both quantitative performance and our customers' business drivers, in addition to building strong relationships at all levels. Strategic priorities for FY2019 We have distilled our strategy into a number of priority areas, which will be reviewed on a regular basis as part of the cadence of strategy review. The diagram above explains the Our globally diverse, deep technical knowledge strategic priorities. A number of our strategic priorities will have a direct impact towards achieving the aims of the SDGs such as playing a part in providing solutions to climate change and engineering expertise provides our and affordable clean energy. customers with the best technical solutions. In 2018, we launched a climate change strategy In 2018, we have chosen to disclose a climate change position statement and strategic actions that form the focus of our climate change program. We will continue to analyze our physical and transitional exposures to climate change and disclose our progress in FY2019. For more detail read our Environment section. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 32 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Tax transparency Indirectly contributing to national economies Total tax contribution in four key operating Disclosing our FY2017 corporate tax contributions in the 2017 Tax Contribution Report aligns with our corporate responsibility countries in FY2017 commitments. We are committed to making a positive impact in the communities and environments in which we operate. We recognize that transparency is crucial to the value of our social license to operate. With approximately $450 million paid in effective tax contributions, there is a significant indirect economic contribution made to countries where we operate. As our employees spend their wages locally on diverse goods and services, there is a further, Australia $157 million indirect economic contribution. We do not measure this indirect economic benefit globally, but it is an important component of our contribution in the 42 countries where we operate. Supporting the following SDGs: SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth; and United Kingdom “giving people the opportunity to indirectly contribute through their own tax contributions” $50 million SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. “meeting all of our tax obligations to financially support the governments that run the countries we operate in” United States of America This table provides a more detailed analysis of our total tax contribution across our key operating jurisdictions during FY2017: Tax type Total AUD$ 000 $125 million Corporate income tax1 3,656 Fringe benefit tax2 963 1 Refers to amounts of corporate income tax paid during FY2017. Payroll taxes 20,403 2 Refers to the fringe benefit tax liability for the year ended 31 March 2017. Canada Net goods and services tax3 40,427 Employee taxes remitted4 388,937 3 Refers to the goods and services tax collected on sales by WorleyParsons less goods and services tax paid on business $123 million purchases by WorleyParsons. Total 454,386 4 Refers to salary withholding tax collected by WorleyParsons. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 33 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Innovation and our digital offering Respecting the benefits of digital disruption Examples of our new digital solutions on Digital disruption With digital disruption revolutionizing the resources and offer to our customers this year energy sector, we identify great opportunities for improving Digital disruption of engineering is putting a premium on Evolve – This is our proprietary asset data remediation our industry. We are committed to staying abreast of the innovative people with real world know how, skills and platform; a field-tested product that creates a reliable digital technological trends and embracing a better, more efficient experience core capabilities within our WorleyParsons teams. copy of critical assets in a facility and keeps the digital and future for the investors, customers and communities we serve. physical in sync. We want to integrate digital technology seamlessly into Evolve is able to process millions of data records from our customers’ existing and new assets. This technology Digital ecosystem multiple disparate sources to determine missing, incomplete can interact and suggest ways to improve performance, and duplicate data. enhancing both the operation of those assets and the Using the premise that the market will out-innovate results they produce. Fugitive Emission Control – We are currently in the fieldan individual and that industrial domain knowledge is testing phase of an advanced technology configuration that key to finding a fit-for-purpose solution... We use data to drive efficiencies, reduce costs, and allow can detect leakage remotely using drones equipped with our customers to make informed decisions using advanced sensors. Using the sensor data, our proprietary proprietary technology. machine learning platform then quantifies the volume and velocity of emission leak. Confidential customers in the USA and Canada are participating in field pilot programs with the expectation that the solution will prioritize asset repairs, minimize product loss, drastically reduce monitoring costs Customers and assist in meeting environmental regulations. SaltGrid HSE – This technology combines powerful data analytics with automation concepts of artificial intelligence and machine learning. Deploying this new platform allows an Partners People organization to break new ground by moving away from HSE data analysis as a means of reporting past events, towards creating a meaningful and granular forecast about future state risks so that those safety risks can be targeted and mitigated. ...we connect known problems to known solutions faster than any individual component CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 34 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Nurturing a culture of innovation This year, we have restructured the way that we facilitate Our innovative digital solutions Hackathon University challenge a smart idea innovation across the business, aligned to our global innovation strategy. Our teams have been prompted towards There are currently five digital projects that are being worked Tiara Dick, Senior Business Intelligence Specialist, from Perth innovative thinking. Some of the new integrated, intelligent on across WorleyParsons: was awarded seed funding to develop a prototype around design platforms this year were: using machine learning on project controls data. Tiara decided • Chatbots – Our Hyderabad office is exploring how project to use the funding to conduct a hackathon with students from • Innovation Sector Strategies and Plans, generated eight design can link up with Chatbot technologies using internal The University of Western Australia, awarding the winning ideas that were awarded innovation seed funding and a engineering project databases, allowing users to access team $4,000 and the opportunity to build their prototype with further three ideas were progressed and awarded further project information instantly using voice commands; the support of WorleyParsons. funding. • Machine Learning Project Controls – Our Perth office is This was one of the most • Engineering Performance Improvement Challenge, working on an idea to use machine learning technology innovative uses of seed funding generated 460 ideas across themes of automation, on project controls data in an effort to better understand that the Innovation Group has engineering design, standardisation, information access our project performance. The first phase of this idea was a seen so far. and human factors. Hackathon held in Perth with students from The University of Western Australia; Our profile on CoVentured (a platform that connects startups with corporate companies) is live and active and we are • A.I. Pipeline Integrity – Our Edmonton office is focused already receiving some interest from various local startups. on developing a machine learning algorithm to apply to We will continue to utilize this platform to generate ideas pipeline integrity engineering; and partnerships that will benefit WorleyParsons and help • Machine Learning HSE – We are using machine learning us achieve our strategy. Currently, we are seeking interested technology to identify personnel on site who are parties in the areas of: inadequately equipped with PPE. Applying this technology to real time site video streams, allows the user to identify • innovative business and personnel who are not wearing the appropriate PPE and to commercial models; correct this in a timely manner; and • plastics and waste; and • Engineering Delivery Input Status Finder – Our Mumbai • digital solutions. office is working on a tool that integrates data from various software used for planning and progress tracking of a project and presenting it in a tabular format, showing current input availability status for deliverables or activities listed in a project’s Master Deliverable Register. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 35 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Social and economic benefits of a natural gas pipeline mega-project The 1,850 kilometers Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline (TANAP) was opened this year at a ceremony held in Eskişehir, northwestern Turkey, attended by Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan; Azerbaijan President, Ilham Aliyev; Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus President, Mustafa Akıncı; Serbian President, Aleksandar Vučić; Ukrainian President, Petro Poroshenko as well as WorleyParsons CEO Andrew Wood. John Milford, WorleyParsons Major Projects Director said: “As the largest diameter pipeline ever built and the ninth longest in the world, this project has been challenging but incredibly rewarding, too. More than 700 WorleyParsons employees have been involved in the project from every corner of the world, including China, India, Australia, America, South Africa, Canada and the UK – it was this global operation that made it quite unique.” The four-year project involved an integrated team from WorleyParsons, working with TANAP, and it is the largest pipeline project ever delivered by WorleyParsons. “The biggest challenge working on a project of this scale was meeting the world-class safety, environmental, timescale and budget targets...We proudly met these targets” says Milford. Engineering and Design Group Manager for TANAP and Package Director for WorleyParsons, Alper Tasdemir, said: “This project is the gas bridge between the Caspian Sea and Europe – it’s incredibly important, not just from a gas supply safety point of view, but because it will create more options in the market and open many jobs to people in Turkey, Greece, Italy, Albania, Georgia and Azerbaijan. The figures are impressive, too. At 56 inches (1.4 meters), which is about the height of a 10-year-old child, it’s the biggest diameter pipe ever and can pump 31 billion cubic meters per annum.” 21,000 1,850km 700 detailed design deliverable covered by TANAP global WorleyParsons documents produced by colleagues involved in the WorleyParsons project CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 36 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 6. HUMAN RIGHTS The responsibility to respect human rights is a global standard of expected conduct for all business enterprises wherever they operate. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 37 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Human rights policies Non-discrimination Child, forced or compulsory labor Indigenous people WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct indicates it is vital our workplace is WorleyParsons does not engage in nor condone any form of child, forced engagement policy free from all forms of harassment, discrimination and intimidation. or compulsory labor. WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy, Code of Our Canadian, Australian, South Behaviors, such as sexual advances, bullying, hostility, abusive language, Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct each confirm WorleyParsons’ African, Alaskan and other physical violence or the threat of physical violence, are not tolerated commitment to respect the basic rights of the people we deal with and operations have local commitments within our Company. not be complicit or engage in activities that solicit or encourage human and long-standing practices to rights abuse. engage our local communities, with WorleyParsons’ policies and business practices are compliant with the applicable national and local labor standards of the countries in which we WorleyParsons Code of Conduct clearly states: “We respect the basic rights specific focus on Indigenous people. operate. Our People Policy and Diversity and Inclusion Policy underline of the people we deal with and will not engage in activities that encourage This year we introduced a our commitment as an equal opportunity employer and we do not human rights abuses. We do not employ or condone forced, compulsory or Group policy that refers to our discriminate on grounds of race, gender, marital status, creed or disability. child labor.” commitment to meaningful Some incidents of discrimination and harassment were reported, No confirmed incidents related to child, forced or compulsory labor were engagement with Indigenous investigated and resolved during the reporting period. ​ reported during the reporting period. communities and to support the aspirations of Indigenous Freedom of association and collective bargaining Indigenous rights people. We are committed to understanding Indigenous peoples’ WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy state WorleyParsons is a strong supporter of Indigenous rights and has priorities, build relationships our business principles and confirm our commitment to fair working supported activities such as cultural festivals, art awards, Indigenous with local communities, engage conditions. They acknowledge our businesses operate under freedom of education sponsorships and community engagement activities in local resources and support association principles and comply with local regulations that align with Canada, Australia, South Africa and the United States. client-community values and local human resources professional body associations around the world. No confirmed incidents related to violations of Indigenous people rights commitments. No confirmed incidents related to violations of freedom of association were reported during the reporting period. We have adopted the term and collective bargaining were reported during the reporting period. Indigenous consistent with United Nations nomenclature, however Security practices local preferences are respected WorleyParsons’ Ready, Response and Recovery (R3) System is an and utilized across our business for integrated business resilience and critical incident management tool Aboriginal, First Nations, traditional that includes our approach to crisis, emergency, business continuity and owners etc. security management. Our R3 System incorporates security arrangements in accordance with human rights principles for law enforcement and the use of force. It also ensures that the safety of our people is protected when they travel overseas. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 38 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Human rights in the supply chain Human rights in the supply chain Responding to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015: ethical and sustainable supply chain Across our industries and operations, WorleyParsons is seeing an opportunity to lead suppliers to better ethical, social and Progress updates on related programs environmental performance. There are increasing expectations to be transparent on selection processes, expose breaches and performance of our supply chain and encourage ethical conduct where we have influence within our own and customers’ supply chains. Recently, we were asked to provide further information on our approach to ethical and sustainable procurement and respond to the UK Modern is reported annually on our Company Slavery Act 2015. website and in this report. Programs WorleyParsons is committed to high standards of business ethics, as reflected in our Code of Conduct, and to best practice include our ethics helpline, gift registers, and continuous improvement in the broader sustainability performance of our business and projects. We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which aligns our practices with the 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human due diligence processes, training, rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. investigations, etc. We aim to operate Our minimum and preferred requirements for suppliers and contractors are set out in our Supply Chain Code of Conduct. responsibly wherever we work in the WorleyParsons reserves the right to terminate its trading agreement where a supplier is unable to demonstrate a commitment to this code. Sometimes, it is our customers who are the contracting party, and we manage or support their purchases and/or world and commit to engaging with subcontracts in circumstances where they do not have their own equivalent contract provisions. Where this occurs, WorleyParsons offers its own Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct and associated sustainable procurement processes. our stakeholders to manage the social, Our commitments are aligned to the Ethical Trade Initiative and International Labour Organization Conventions, and requires that: economic and environmental impacts of • local laws are respected; our activities. • no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed; • employment is freely chosen; • businesses operate ethically; • child labor shall not be used; • no unauthorized subcontracting is allowed; and • illegal labor shall not be used; • due regard is given to environmental impacts. • appropriate wages are paid; • working hours are not excessive; • freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected; • working conditions are safe and hygienic; • no discrimination is practiced; CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 39 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Supporting Indigenous people across the world WorleyParsons is committed to meaningful engagement with Indigenous communities. We Australia – Indigenous internships recognize that our success in doing this depends on our demonstrated understanding of and respect for cultural values and the social, environmental and economic issues that affect For the past five years, WorleyParsons’ Australia West business has welcomed Year 11 and 12 Indigenous people. students into our workplace from Governor Stirling Senior High School. Canada – design influence, consideration of traditional knowledge and Aboriginal apprenticeships The Pond Inlet Small Craft Harbour is part of Advisian’s current Nunavut Marine Infrastructure Project with the Government of Nunavut. The input received resulted in design modifications to meet the needs of the community. Incorporation of Inuit traditional knowledge improved the team’s plan and design. Also, WorleyParsonsCord supports Indigenous apprentices in Alberta, Canada with a partnership between Red Deer College, Montana First Nation and WorleyParsonsCord. United States – investing and partnering with Indigenous owned businesses NANA WorleyParsons is a project delivery company focused on multidiscipline engineering and design, procurement and construction management services. Based in Alaska, NANA’s owners, or shareholders, are Iñupiat, meaning “real people”, who have inhabited northwest Alaska for more than 10,000 years. Iñupiat are part of the Inuit, or circumpolar Indigenous people of the world. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 40 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 7. ENVIRONMENT We help our customers meet the world’s changing resources and energy needs. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 41 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Environment at a glance in 2018 50+ 13% 100+ Concentrating solar thermal Reduction in total carbon dioxide Wind power projects globally power projects globally equivalent emissions 51% 9th 480,480 Carbon emissions reductions Year reporting to CDP Photovoltaic modules were (tonnes C02-e) since 2014 installed at the PV Solar Plant Pozo Almonte, Chile 4 365 18 Number of WorleyParsons Turbines installed in 362 days in Number of environment themed Foundation projects supporting the largest wind farm in Africa CR activities clean water and sanitation CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 42 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Environment highlights The influence of our projects and customers to shape the future of climate-related issues has been recognized by industry, investors and our broader community stakeholders. This year, we have seen progress across these environment themed activities:​ Climate change Established a working group to review and design an implementation program for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure ( TCFD ) to assist organizations take account of climate-related issues and disclose the financial impact that climate risks have on their businesses. Released a climate change position statement confirming our commitment to being part of the solution. New energy and renewables performance As our customers adopt to a more diverse energy future, we are well placed to support them. Page 46 Water expertise Our water experts apply their expert knowledge to customer and pro bono projects that are influencing communities on a large scale with examples from Bangladesh and Papua New Guinea. Page 47 Emissions performance We assessed and reported that we exceeded our FY2017 energy target of a 5% reduction of total carbon dioxide equivalents against the base year FY2016. Page 49 The Do Good Plant a Tree! campaign led by volunteers from WorleyParsons planted 150 young trees along one of the central streets of Atyrau, Kazakhstan. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 43 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Climate change program Our climate change working group has been established to review and design the climate change program. So WorleyParsons has a climate change position statement underpinned with far, the program has embedded climate change considerations with our core risk and strategy processes and has strategic actions that forms the focus of our climate change program. started to assess climate-related risks and opportunities. This program takes account of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). The TCFD followed the 2016 Paris Climate Agreement and aims to assist organizations like ours to take account of climate-related issues and disclose the Climate change position statement financial impact that climate risks have on business. We recognize that climate change will have significant implications for the Governance Strategy industries we serve. Together with Disclose the organization’s Disclose the actual and governance around potential impacts of climateour customers and industry partners, climate-related risks and opportunities. related risks and opportunities on the organization’s We will continue we use the principles of EcoNomicsTM businesses, strategy, and to analyze our and the UN Sustainable Development financial planning where such information is material. physical and Goals to help drive solutions for a lower transitional carbon world. We are committed to exposures to being part of the solution, to reducing Risk management Metrics and targets climate change our own emissions intensity and Disclose how the Disclose the metrics and and the risk and protecting our people and assets from organization identifies, targets used to assess opportunites it the physical impact of climate change. assesses and manages and manage relevant climate-related risks. climate-related risks and opportunities where such presents to our information is material. business. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 44 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Climate change strategic actions WorleyParsons climate change strategic actions We will: Minimising our own carbon • Maintain company-wide energy targets, clearly stating we commit to reduce our emissions intensity in absolute terms, even as we emissions grow the business; • We will continue to complete a response for the Carbon Disclosure Project. The data collection and analysis stimulates energy and carbon emission reduction measures across the business. Using the principles of EcoNomicsTM we help our industry and customers meet the world’s changing resource and energy needs by: Responding to our industry’s and • Applying our world-class engineering skills to develop and implement solutions that accelerate the energy transition; customers’ climate change needs • Supporting customers to improve the energy efficiency of their existing operations; • Helping customers to transition to lower emissions intensity outcomes. We prepare for various scenarios and manage the impact of any critical incident situations that arise from climate change, which potentially can compromise the: Protecting our people and assets from the physical impact of • viability of our operations; climate change • wellbeing of our people; • interruption of our business. Demonstrating our corporate We are committed to act responsibly, using the UN Sustainable Development Goals (*) and the Task Force for Climate-related Financial commitment to climate change as Disclosure as a guide. we educate, measure and report progress on our climate related We champion the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal #7: Affordable and Clean Energy which aims to ensure universal disclosures access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services. * = The SDGs, adopted by all the world’s nations, cover nearly every aspect of our future. They concern all people, all countries, and all parts of society. There are 17 goals in total, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 45 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com New Energy Investing in New Energy Green hydrogen Projects and services WorleyParsons has comprehensive expertise in the renewable The expertise of WorleyParsons and Advisian ensured their Lake Turkana Wind Power Project in Northern Kenya delivered energy sector. We have delivered projects in solar, wind, hydro, Green Hydrogen Feasibility Study was a complete success 365 wind turbines with a combined generating capacity biomass and geothermal power, and we support customers in and contributed positively to the Southern Australia Hydrogen of 300MW. WorleyParsons provided the complete project developing and realizing their emissions reduction strategies. Road Map. Through the project, we were able to provide a management and owner’s engineer services. robust fact base, which in turn enabled a clear pathway for We work with customers from all over the world including The Shagaya Renewable Energy Project in Kuwait includes the role of green hydrogen in securing South Australia’s future utilities, governments and energy companies. We help them a 50MW concentrated solar power plant with molten salt energy needs. make smart decisions about their emissions reduction energy storage, a 10MW photovoltaic solar plant, and a strategies and investments in renewables. Our focus is The impact of these projects would have a positive impact on 10MW wind farm. on staying relevant to our customers’ needs in a rapidly employment, local development, manufacturing industries changing sector. and skills development and would drive the implementation of more renewables. We have developed centers of excellence in Brazil, Spain, Australia and the United States which in turn support New During the completion of the study, South Korea announced Energy projects across the globe. We are expanding our efforts its commitment to run 26,000 buses on hydrogen and has in New Energy as a strategic priority for us. Investments will been in dialogue with the South Australian Government see us broadening our capabilities in response to the markets about providing the hydrogen fuel. To do this, South Australia we seek to address. would require the construction of around 17 plants, with an estimated capital requirement of more than AUD$14 billion. The future brings a growing portfolio of renewables working In order to provide the electricity needed to produce hydrogen, alongside traditional sources, sometimes integrated in hybrid the development of approximately 8,700MW of renewable form. Enablers, such as energy storage and smart energy energy projects will also be necessary. systems, will play an important role in this transition. WorleyParsons’ expertise in renewable energy spans from concept decision making to hands-on operations. These global services utilize a broad experience base and cover diverse roles, such as engineering of North Sea offshore wind farm structures, operations of biogas plants in Australia, evaluation of biomass facilities in Chile, a study of a solar/gas hybrid plant in Kuwait, and planning of energy storage systems for renewables in the US. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 46 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Our water expertise Managing water risks Finding clean water for nearly 60,000 Competing demands for limited available water resources refugees in Bangladesh and uncertainties associated with climate change, mean the A WorleyParsons team performed a critical geophysical provision of water security and flood resilience is an everexploration for drinking water in the Kutupalong, Leda increasing challenge faced by our clients. and Nayapara refugee camps, which were facing acute Advisian’s hydrology and hydrogeology consultants have the water shortages due to the lack of rain. A team of five expertise needed to help clients make accurate, reliable, and WorleyParsons hydro-physicists, under a consulting informed water resources decisions that provide long term agreement for the United Nations High Commission for water security to projects and communities, as well as a Refugees, headed to Bangladesh to help find deeper wells. greater resilience to flood risk and uncertainties. The service They used state-of-the-art, mining and geophysical industry offering is underpinned by expert knowledge in engineering technology, such as: high resolution unmanned aerial vehicle sciences, water valuation, risk management, stakeholder imagery, daily mapping and 3D interactive, cloud-based consultation, and integrated technical solutions. visualization technology. Our team have been long term supporters of water exploration for refugee camps. Over the Our water resource specialists are supported by a course of 2016 and 2017, their water exploration resulted in multidisciplinary team comprised of civil engineers clean water for 60,000 of the 185,000 refugees in Kakuma; and designers, structural engineers, railway engineers, and for 8,000 ‘returnees’ to 22 villages and health clinics hydrogeologists, geologists, geotechnical engineers, in Northern Uganda. The WorleyParsons Foundation is environmental scientists, process engineers, water treatment supporting the drilling and hand pump installation of 10 wells and chemical engineers, project managers, risk managers, and in the most recent Uganda project. “We were able to save safety specialists. the United Nations High Commission for Refugees months Our breadth of experience solving complex water resource of drilling and exploration when our mapped area revealed problem for clients around the world allows us to provide big differences to theirs. We also found new possibilities for clients with an integrated service that ranges from initial excavating and expanding existing surface reservoirs,” explains desktop studies, through to detailed design services and Paul Bauman, a expert Geophysicist, based in Calgary. project management of water resource investigations. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 47 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Energy performance Energy performance Energy consumption The Group completed a response for the CDP for FY2017 which was reported in June 2018. 300,000 The Group’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions were recorded to assist the Group to measure and reduce its energy consumption and reduce its greenhouse gas 250,000 emissions. The data collection and analysis stimulated energy and carbon reduction measures in the global energy efficiency program in selected offices. The Company also completed a CDP response in respect of its water use for FY2017. 200,000 Refer to the chart on this page for energy consumption trends for the years ended 30 June 2014 through to 30 June 2017. MWh 150,000 Targets 100,000 An energy target for FY2020 has been set at 5% reduction of total carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2-e) against base year FY2016. 50,000 As reported in our CDP response in 2018, an emission reduction of 13%, from reported last year, was achieved for FY2017, well above the four-year target. Business downsizing and 2014 2015 2016 2017 subsequent consolidation of office space have contributed to this reduction. Scope 2 110,656 74,873 61,826 65,083 Emissions have reduced 51% since 2014 (scope 1 and scope 2). Scope 1 145,082 171,169 81,901 55,007 Energy data integrity Over the past year, we focussed on improving the accuracy and completeness of our energy consumption data. Our focus next year will be on further enhancing or replacing our current Activities driving energy efficiency: environmental data collection system, which has inherent limitations around some aspects of • reduced the carbon footprint across a number of offices by reducing office space and data recording and integrity checking. encouraging LED lighting, recycling and building-wide smart energy planning; Environmental compliance • continued a global energy reduction program, working with the locations with the largest energy footprint by selecting high impact changes to implement in the next reporting period; The Company did not receive any environmental fines or non-monetary sanctions for this and reporting period. • maintained active ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification in a number of locations. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 48 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Overall Our total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions are derived from our location offices (including company owned vehicles) The total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2-e) are shown in the and fabrication yards in Canada and Norway. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (resulting from electricity usage and direct charts on this page. cooling and heating) are included in the emissions calculation. Total greenhouse gas emissions Total greenhouse gas emissions EmissionsEmissions intensity intensity by employeeby employee Emissions intensity Emissions byintensity revenue by revenue 120,000 3.00 16 14 100,000 2.50 12 tCO2-e/A$Millions 2.00 tCO2-e/Thousands 80,000 tCO2-e/FTE 10 60,000 1.50 8 6 40,000 1.00 4 20,000 0.50 2 0.00 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total Emissions* 101,415 84,091 57,534 49,853 Emissions Intensity 2.85 2.68 2.32 2.19 Emissions Intensity 13.77 11.63 9.63 11.39 *Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 49 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Our people reduce carbon emissions by reducing waste As takeaway coffee cups are not recyclable, the world’s population are throwing away an estimated 50,000 disposable cups every hour globally, which adds up to one billion annually. The war on coffee cup waste is well underway and around the world there are examples of companies and even cities making it easier for people to have a takeaway coffee without contributing to landfill. Our Melbourne office is committed to minimizing waste and reducing its impact on the environment, which is why we have introduced KeepCups. An office survey in December 2017 said the use of KeepCups will stop at least 12,800 takeaway cups from our Melbourne office going to landfill each year and 5.2 tonnes of CO2 from polluting our atmosphere. Caring for the environment WorleyParsons operations and people continue to contribute to environmental protection programs and local community environmental activities including: • promoting large scale adoption of renewable energy solutions in communities (in India with Pollinate Energy fellowships, Easter Island etc) • environmental protection, biodiversity and restoration of habitat (Great Barrier Reef Foundation, tree planting in Kazakhstan); • landmine clearing for reinstating agricultural land in Angola; • community education on water and sanitation in Colombia and Papua New Guinea; • climate change mitigation and adaption (World Environment Day, Oman and Singapore); and • energy efficiency and paper and electronic waste recycling initiatives across many offices. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 50 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Working to find sanitation solutions in Papua New Guinea Colleagues from WorleyParsons and Advisian headed to the seaside community of Hanuabada to show how remote skills can be brought together to make a big difference to projects such as World Vision’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) program in Papua New Guinea. In February 2018, three volunteers visited the coastal community of Hanuabada with three other volunteers providing expert technical input into the study from their respective offices. Under an arrangement with World Vision for provision of pro bono services, the volunteers led a feasibility study for the investigation and design of options for toilet systems to improve local sanitation conditions for the 12,000 people of Hanuabada. The WorleyParsons Foundation supported the non-labor costs and provided a donation to support the project execution. The team worked with World Vision and Asia P3 Hub to speak with various stakeholders in the community. ”We were able to interview residents and meet and consult government representatives to gather insights while visiting existing toilet facilities,” says Rajiv Venkatraman, from Advisian in Melbourne. Our WASH experts have been invited to participate in the next phase of this project as well as other projects with World Vision in other countries. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 51 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 8. OUR PEOPLE More than 26,000 people and 80 nationalities make up the WorleyParsons family. A global industry leader, we offer Engineering, Project Management and consulting professionals, as well those in Finance, IT, Legal, Assurance, HSE and People functions, the chance to make a difference in an everchanging world while developing their skills and careers. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 52 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Our people 2018 at a glance 3 21% 22% 40% Non-executive Directors Women employees1 Senior executives are Of leaders have one or are women women2 more diversity flags 38,900 26,050 80 50% Hours of online training Employees globally Different nationalities Of services locations globally have a total recordable frequency rate of 0.00 1 This includes both the Group’s employees and contractors. 2 Senior executives comprise all employees and contractors at the CEO-1, CEO-2 levels. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 53 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Our people highlights Many programs were directed for the benefit of our people; some of the resulting achievements were: Gender equality performance. This year, we formalized our Diversity and Inclusion Plan (D&I), with a focus on increasing gender representation at all levels. Each regional and business line leadership team agreed and implemented their local D&I Plans aligned to these global objectives. • Implemented our inaugural Talent Sponsorship Program, aimed at proactive support and advocacy of our identified female top talent by members of our Global Leadership Team. • Conducted gender pay gap assessments across comparable roles, tiers and regions. During FY2018, our global gender pay gap between male and female remuneration has reduced approximately 1% (varying by office). At the manager and senior manager roles, the salary gap reduced by approximately 1% and 3% respectively. More on page 55 Diversity performance. We delivered training for inclusive recruitment and promotion and bias awareness workshops in some locations. We also continued our global diversity and inclusion champion forums to provide guidance and support for diversity and inclusion initiatives and promote engagement with local networks. Our leaders continued to monitor and review progress of an internal diversity scorecard. Page 56 Engagement survey. Actions resulting from the 2017 employee engagement survey were implemented across the business. Page 57 Training and development performance. The WorleyParsons Academy continued to offer a wide range of online training options. Page 59 Safety performance. Our industry-leading performance in recordable incidents continued. Page 60 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 54 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Gender equality At WorleyParsons, we believe in the benefits of a diverse and Working to achieve the SDG aims inclusive workplace. Indeed, diversity of backgrounds, skills, SDG5 – Gender Equality climbed into the top 10 most important SDGs for all of our stakeholders. At WorleyParsons, we recognize the immense benefits a balanced gender thinking and expertise is what helps us thrive and develop our representation can have on our business success. That is why we have set ourselves specific business to meet future needs. targets to ensure we are meeting the aims of the UN SDGs. On page 69 you will see how we are preparing for the future of female engineers through our extensive STEM programs and Our vision for women at WorleyParsons is to be a company where talented professional initiatives. women choose to join and stay, by creating a culture and environment where people want We are avid supporters of International Women’s Day (refer to page 62) and our female leaders to work. We want to inspire women at WorleyParsons to advance the Company’s business lead by example, engaging with a number of industry organizations providing mentorship and success and to achieve their career potential. We promote opportunities for talented women advocacy towards accelerating the progress of gender equality. to succeed and establish a strong global network of women professionals to share leadership experience and knowledge. In New Zealand, this year’s engineering scholarship winners were an entirely female cohort. Our goals are: 6th year • create an accessible, informative and current forum for discussion by some WorleyParsons reporting women and foster a global community. Initiate an online discussion for all women to engage on key work issues facing female professionals in a services company like WorleyParsons; WorleyParsons complies with all mandatory Our Women of WorleyParsons (WoW) group • raise the visibility of women in leadership roles by highlighting and recognizing achievements diversity reporting requirements. In in Houston recently launched a new initiative of women within the organization; and accordance with the Australian Workplace – Women’s Mentoring Circles. • provide a framework for development of career planning, leadership, flexible work Gender Equality Act 2012, relevant entities arrangements and mentorship initiatives for women professionals. Both mentors and mentees come together within WorleyParsons have submitted monthly to give women an opportunity to We recognize that change begins at the top and we have already achieved our gender targets Workplace Gender Equality Reports for the engage in peer mentoring led by several of for non-executive directors and senior executive leadership, but we have work to do with our reporting period. These reports are available our senior leaders, and discuss building their overall female representation. on our Company website. personal brands and internal networks. The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Our WoW network is active in over 21 Diversity in STEM education is a collective passion across Pay Gap Information) Regulations locations globally, with active Yammer groups to ensure collaboration. WorleyParsons offices. Our people have been involved in 2017 For the first year, WorleyParsons reported on many STEM related community engagement activities. their gender pay gap for our UK operations. Examples on page 68 The information regarding our gender pay gap can be viewed on our UK Government website. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 55 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Celebrating diversity Celebrating cultural differences To celebrate the cultural diversity of our people and our customers, a number of WorleyParsons offices organized local celebrations. These were organized by our virtual network of hundreds of diversity and inclusion champions. Some examples are: • our Los Angeles employees celebrated the Lunar New Year and Diwali together, sharing food, laughs, and reflecting on the depth of LA diversity; • Brazil held celebrations for their local Children’s Day (12 October) at EPCM Rio Grande Project’s site, as well as in Río de Janeiro and Altamira; and • in Kazakhstan, WorleyParsons participated in annual Nauryz celebrations. For International Women’s Day, most of our offices celebrated in diverse approaches showing the cultural differences in how the day was chosen to be celebrated. In Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, some of the WorleyParsons female employees participated in a Walkathon. Our Thailand, Brunei and Singapore offices came together to donate necessary supplies (underwear, sanitary items and powdered milk for babies) to female prisoners and their children (approximately 5,000 people) residing at the Central Women Correctional Institution, Chatuchak, Thailand. In Reading, USA a generational diversity session was held with participants from each generation group. In many organizations, there are four generations working together: baby boomers; generation X; millennials; and Generation Z. As these various generations work side-by-side, it’s imperative for managers to understand each groups’ motivations and address issues related to generational differences that may have an impact on the success of WorleyParsons. “ Progressing towards a diverse and inclusive workplace is a key success factor in driving our strategy. It is the right thing to do and we know that diversity of thought, ideas and experiences contribute to innovation and encourage new ideas to solve our customers’ challenges. Marian McLean, Group Managing Director People and Assurance, WorleyParsons CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 56 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Listening to our people Employee engagement survey highlights Inclusion and flexible work Working to achieve the SDG aims In 2018, actions resulting from the 2017 employee WorleyParsons has practical, everyday examples from Three of the top six most important SDGs, as identified by the engagement survey were implemented across the business. across the globe that demonstrate workplace flexibility to materiality study 2018, were: The purpose of the survey is to help us understand the level assist our employees balance their study, family and carer of engagement of our people and determine where to put our responsibilities, as well as other personal interests outside the efforts in improving WorleyParsons as a work place. The high workplace. response rate (80%) indicated our people are interested in SDG3 – Good Health and Wellbeing; Our Flexible Work Standard ensures we are committed to being heard. considering, developing and implementing flexible work How our employees feel at work The results showed we are above practices that are practical for both the organization and the the industry average benchmark. individual, supporting employees to balance their work and SDG4 – Quality Education; and However, we have some work personal life at different stages of their life. to do to achieve our aim of being The investment we make in training and development Remote working, part-time work arrangements, compressed in the top 10th percentile for the professional services working weeks and flexible leave arrangements are just some industry. In 2018, pulse surveys were issued to continue our of the formal and informal arrangements in place. Workplace SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth. engagement with employees. flexibility is valued highly by our employees, and we share examples through our Flexible Work Stories series How we identify and support talent development (see comments from our people on the next page). Overall Global professional Measure In addition to understanding engagement, we can identify 2017 services benchmark the issues that our people feel are preventing them from Engagement index 73% 69% enjoying their work. Via adapting or introducing new policies, we can improve wellbeing (e.g. flexible working arrangements), Intent to stay 75% 76% improve training and development (e.g. WorleyParsons Academy) and improve career progression (e.g. Future Leaders Champions 52% 46% Program). All of this leads to achieving the aims of the SDGs. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 57 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Our business benefits from flexible work as we see enhanced productivity and engagement from our people. “ I sought a flexible work arrangement to allow my wife to return to work after having children. This is the second time I've sought a flexible arrangement. “ Leaving work at 2pm every day allows me to pick up my kids from school just before it closes and I have the chance to spend the rest of the afternoon with “ With flexible working arrangements including working from home and flexibility in the hours that I work, I am able to successfully juggle work, part After our first child, I worked four days them… my working arrangement allows time studies, family time and child care per week for a few months (before we me to fulfil my family requirements. responsibilities. For me this is a benefit put her into childcare). This time, I’m Yalina, Oman with immeasurable value. working three days per week until my Sharmila, UK son starts childcare next year. Both part time work and childcare places are difficult to come by so it has been great that I’ve been able to help fill the gap. Adam, Australia CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 58 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Training and development Talent management Global Sales and Marketing (GSM) Future WorleyParsons has a talent management and development Leaders FY2019 program that provides internal technical and non-technical 149 applicants across 25 countries pitched their talents in training resources for our people. We offer a number the selection process for the Future Leaders program. Each of blended learning programs and activities for training and development through the WorleyParsons Academy applicant had to submit a short video answering one of the WorleyParsons Academy four questions. including instructor-led and virtual options for local inThe WorleyParsons Academy supports the success of the country talent development programs. Capabilities are The final shortlisted applicants were assessed on four business through the development of employee capability. enhanced in leadership, technical, commercial acumen, criteria: creativity and innovation in problem-solving; energy It helps employees drive their professional development by graduate development and WorleyParsons’ expectations and passion; willingness to challenge and inquire; and providing resources for effective ongoing learning. related to the Code of Conduct and OneWay™ integrity communication and collaboration. The mission of the Future management framework. Leaders group will be to inject fresh new thinking to address The Academy consists of an online presence and physical the goals of the GSM and the rest of the organization, in campuses located in Houston, Texas and Al Khobar, Saudi Examples of our key talent management and development helping drive revenue and growth. Arabia. Local classrooms feature state-of-the art audio/video programs are: functionality with the ability to provide courses locally or “at a distance”. • Graduate Development Program • Transformation Leadership Learning An online presence provides access to self-directed learning resources with top-quality course materials. Via on-demand • Leadership, Engagement and Performance eLearning solutions and managed content, ensures easy • Strategic Dialogue Conversations (between highly access and up-to-date resources and use of an integrated talented staff and Board members) Yammer group for knowledge sharing. • Women Talent Sponsorship Academy programs support: Performance reviews • management and leadership skills; WorleyParsons is committed to identifying, developing • business development, sales and marketing skills; and and retaining our talent. Using our global performance • technical knowledge and skills. review tool, PeopleSuccess, managers and their teams hold regular discussions throughout the year to establish performance criteria, and give performance feedback. Key to this tool's success is the discussion of employees’ development action plans. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 59 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Health and safety Workplace health and safety Industry comparison of total recordable and lost workday case frequency rates WorleyParsons’ Health, Safety and Environment Policy 4.00 articulates our commitment to people and assets. It expands TRCFR on WorleyParsons’ HSE values and the control framework 3.50 No. of recordable cases per 200k hours worked that applies to our operations. LWCFR Over the past 10 years, OneWay™ has been the integrity 3.00 framework guiding the way we work throughout WorleyParsons. It encompasses the tools and processes 2.50 that we follow to ensure the wellbeing of people, assets and the environment. Recently we have been updating it to 2.00 incorporate the principles of human performance. OneWay™ will evolve to reflect these changes. 1.50 Safety 1.00 WorleyParsons’ unyielding stand on safety continues to deliver industry-leading results. We are one of the few 0.50 companies in our industry that has been able to deliver improved safety performance during this period of disruption, 0.00 as shown in the chart opposite. Bureau of Labor Bureau of Labor Bureau of Labor National Offshore Construction International WorleyParsons Statistics (USA) Statistics (USA) Statistics (USA) Petroleum Industry Institute Association 2017 All Industry Heavy and Civil Professional Safety and (CII) 2015 of Oil and Gas 2016 Construction and Business Environmental Producers (IOGP) 2016 Services Management 2016 Authority (NOPSEMA) 2017 The Group uses the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration reporting requirements for TRCFR and LWCFR. Figures represent personnel working directly for the Company (permanent staff, casual staff, contracted staff, secondees and agency personnel). We demonstrated continued industry leading performance of our TRCFR against industry standards and our peers. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 60 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Health and safety Over the years, safety across industry has become bound New emergency notification system by too many rules, checklists and bureaucracy. We believe An emergency notification system was implemented during the period it is important to strike a balance between bureaucratically which is used to contact our people during critical incidents. The mass controlled safety and worker managed safety; between communication system is designed to contact our people by email, SMS text or text to speech message on their phone, helping us account for our deference to protocol and procedure on the one hand and people and quickly identify who is safe, who is injured or who may need assistance. practical expertise on the other. The Group’s HSE Committee focus areas: We have been thinking deeply about human performance, • HSE leadership and dialogue at all levels of the organization; how we pragmatically introduce this into our organization • field risk management practices; and how we adapt and fine tune our foundational processes. • serious injury and fatal risk safeguards moving towards incorporating International Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) life saving rules; At a high level, and in the context of our people, we believe • greenhouse gas emissions; and the words empower, enable and ethical describe the 'why' of • OneWay™ framework. All levels of leadership continue to drive our safety expectations and look what we need to do in relation to human performance. for opportunities to redesign our processes and systems to address human factor risks. We need to trust our people to make the right decisions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) based on their competence, expertise and buy-in to our The EAP is an early intervention initiative that provides professional and values. We need to empower our people regardless of title confidential counseling. Our EAP is a service available to all employees, or tenure, to contribute equally to safety and the operational contractors and their immediate family members in many locations to help them with work and personal difficulties that may arise. excellence of our organization. We need to do all this because it is absolutely the right thing to do. Marian McLean, Group Managing Director People and Assurance, WorleyParsons CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 61 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Women of WorleyParsons and International Women’s Day, March 2018 International Women’s Day (IWD) is a much celebrated event at WorleyParsons and no more so than in our Al Khobar office in Saudi Arabia. International Women’s Day is a great way to raise awareness of the importance of localization. Days like IWD help highlight WorleyParsons as a prospective employer to many more Saudi Arabian women. Breakfast was then followed by a Ladies Walkathon – attended by 40 colleagues – along the local corniche where we marked the occasion and raised awareness of the day with a banner and sashes. It was a great opportunity to celebrate our female employees in the public arena and we are proud to be one of the first companies in Saudi Arabia to do this. Our other locations also rose to the challenge, hosting a series of events, charity drives, competitions, pledges, panels and speakers to celebrate. From Brunei to Moscow and Canada to Nigeria, there was great enthusiasm and creativity shown. Our new office in Germany also participated for the first time. Our Women of WorleyParsons network group in India organized a voluntary activity at Nanhi Kali’s V.P.S Muncipal School. They talked to the girls about the importance of education, and conducted career counseling conversations to motivate them to pursue their education and dream of a future of financial independence. As role models, they narrated stories about their own success. Our Yammer feed showcasing our IWD activities was read over 42,000 times, demonstrating the interest and commitment our 42 offices have for this diversity and inclusion event. “We are seeing signs of the success of this already – with 103 women in the Al Khobar office, we have the highest number of female employees across all disciplines compared to our peers,” says Michael Ryan, Project Manager. ”We hope to grow that number over the coming years.” The Women of WorleyParsons in DeltaAfrik celebrated 2018 International Women's Day by visiting Top Goodness School at Jakande in Lagos State, Nigeria to encourage secondary school girls to #PressforProgress in their education and life goals. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 62 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 9. COMMUNITY Once again our people’s willingness to support WorleyParsons Foundation projects continues to be a driving factor behind delivering on our local corporate responsibility activities within the communities we operate. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 63 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Community 2018 at a glance and since 2012 11,500+ 12 2,900+ 40+ Employees involved in corporate Active WorleyParsons Corporate responsibility WorleyParsons responsibility and diversity and Foundation projects themed activities, tracked Foundation Projects inclusion activities and reported funded $1.86m 42 715 $23.5 million 1,300+ Community contributions by Countries where WorleyParsons Foundation Awards Community contributions by Foundation Awards operations, our people and supports their local communities issued to employees operations, our people and issued to employees fundraising fundraising (since 2014) 390 25,500 141,600 Corporate responsibility Volunteer hours by personnel Volunteer hours by personnel themed activities, tracked and reported Values are measured in Australian dollars. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 64 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Community highlights A corporate responsibility champions network of over 300 volunteers continues to deliver support to the communities where we operate. Over 11,500 of our employees actively participated in local activities supporting our key themes, volunteering their time and raising funds. There is passion, dedication and generosity to celebrate in our colleagues. Below are just some key highlights of the various community-related initiatives WorleyParsons executed during FY2018: Contributions and volunteering performance The willingness of our personnel to volunteer their time and make donations in support of their local corporate responsibility activities drives the success of our corporate responsibility achievements for the year. Contributions to developing our local communities via skills transfer, education, local employment and enterprise development are providing support to our aims of long term positive social impact and hence helping the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This year, we saw an increase in volunteering hours, contributions by our people and active champions throughout our virtual corporate responsibility network. Page 66 Supporting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) This year, our people created and embraced opportunities to support school and university students find their passion for STEM. Page 68 WorleyParsons Foundation The WorleyParsons Foundation continues to grow, supporting an even more diverse range of activities and projects across the globe, providing the Group with larger-scale opportunities to deliver tangible positive outcomes and enhance the Group’s social impact. The WorleyParsons Foundation recognizes and acknowledges employees for their personal contribution in activities that help promote our key corporate responsibility themes. In FY2018, Foundation awards were given to over 700 individuals in 48 offices in 31 countries. They were responsible for championing social impact by taking the lead in local volunteering activities. Page 70 Improving social infrastructure Our commercial offering in social infrastructure, social consulting and other community-linked services, broadly touches many of the communities where we operate, often at a large scale. Page 69 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 65 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Contributing and volunteering in our communities In FY2018, over 11,500 Group personnel participated in over 390 corporate responsibility activities across 42 countries. Our leadership teams and volunteer corporate responsibility champions select and deliver local initiatives. Selection criteria encourages maximizing sustained positive social impact as well as business benefits such as employee engagement and skills development. Contributions by WorleyParsons’ people and operations are measured in terms of Australian dollar contributions and volunteer time contributions. There were no confirmed incidents related to potential or actual negative impacts on local communities for this reporting period. Sustained social and economic impact • Support for the UN Sustainable Social impact (outputs) FY2018 development Goals • ~25,500 volunteer hours • Long term community partnerships and • ~ $1.1 million contributed by operations relationships Company supported activities • ~ $0.76 million contributed by staff • Provision of pro bono services • ~260 employees donated blood and plasma under national or international • Long term partnerships with not-for-profit • ~1,700kg of food donated agreements for large scale support organizations • ~$80,000 of scholarships granted Inputs • Scholarships, mentoring and educational • ~19,000 people and 30 villages saved from event sponsorships the dangers of mines • Local corporate responsibility champions • Disaster recovery and humanitarian relief • Local diversity and inclusion champions • ~160 activities supporting school or I believe the enormous impact we make • Recycling and waste reduction university aged young people • Contributions from local operations • Energy efficiency and emission reductions in our communities is made possible by • Contributions from personnel • ~15 toy collections in nine countries • Water, sanitation and hygiene • Sanitation improvements for 100,000+ the special mix of very passionate and • Contributions from fundraising activities • Building upgrades and refurbishments • Targeted financial support from the people in Brazil skilled people, coupled with carefully • Enterprise development and ethical supply • Clean water for 450,000+ refugees in designed enabling processes. Add to this WorleyParsons Foundation chain • Pro bono skilled volunteering time Bangladesh the values-based culture and support • Indigenous and native employment and • Unpaid volunteering time • 34,000+ students with improved school from leadership, and it is easy for our training facilities in Brazil • Paid volunteering time • Health, wellbeing and medical support people to take action with minimal • Donations of food, clothing, blood, IT • Safety workshops bureaucracy and appropriate risk equipment, toys and stationery • Poverty and hunger support management. The collective impact that • Blood donations results from the hundreds of activities • Pro bono assignments benefiting the many communities where • Hack-a-thons we operate, is breathtaking. For CR Definitions and clarifications, refer to: Marni Oaten, www.worleyparsons.com/~/media/Files/W/WorleyParsons/documents/cr/cr-definitions.pdf Director Corporate Responsibility CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 66 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com “ You have gone to so much trouble to show your appreciation for our contributions. Whereas it is “ On the one hand, despite working in many refugee and disaster situations, I have never seen so many people “ Wow... Massive night! And yet another fantastic night with the team from WorleyParsons... (our longest “ The work done by WorleyParsons in the area of CSR is appreciable and it is long lasting. It has created WorleyParsons who are humbled suffering so much and under running corporate team great impact on the welfare by the work you do and very such dreadful circumstances. It partners) Thank you for your of the community.” proud to be a small part of it. was incredibly tough to witness. support year after year... Feedback from an anonymous Thank you so much for the But on the other hand, the Its because of amazing community partner report on our past donations and work we had gone there to do partnerships like this that congratulations on the clearance went very smoothly and we charities like us can give of more than 108,000,000m2 in were able to solve seemingly soooooooo much to our local Moxico province. And your table unsurmountable challenges on community. capturing the direct beneficiaries a daily basis (to map safe water Feedback from The Big of the WorleyParsons' sponsored for the 450,000+ refugees to Umbrella, Australia NTS in Moxico province of access).” 19,237 people and 30 villages. Paul Bauman, Advisian Brilliant!!! geophysicist on a humanitarian Feedback from Mines Advisory water project in Bangladesh Group, Angola CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 67 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Education with a diversity and inclusion lens STEM education – encouraging the engineers, designers and creative A Hackathon, at the University of Western Australia Young Engineers sponsored by WorleyParsons, was designed to expose students to real-world engineering problems with thinkers of the future experienced professionals on hand to lend support in solving them. The winning team will win a WorleyParsons’ commitment to diversity and inclusion is supported by the Diversity and 12-week internship with WorleyParsons. Inclusion Expectations that apply to all our people, in all our locations, contracts and projects. Katelinel, Engineering student and WorleyParsons intern in Brisbane, Australia: “I attended a One of these is our commitment to be a diversity and inclusion leader in our industry and Power of Engineering event as a school student. I remember coming away from that day thinking community. engineering was pretty cool and it was something I could do as a career,” she says. “I definitely think Through our STEM education program and with the support of our partnership with the Power that if I hadn’t already been exposed to what engineering was through Power of Engineering, I would of Engineering and relationships with Robogals, many of our locations have been actively not have selected the subjects which ultimately helped me choose to study it at a university level.” involved in their local school communities, running workshops and events to encourage the next generation of future engineers, designers and creative thinkers. STEM education events have been hosted by our volunteers across Australia, the US, the UK, New Zealand, Nigeria and India, with more locations gearing up to participate. In FY2018, we granted over $80,000 in scholarships and supported education via 89 corporate responsibility activities with over 7,000 volunteer hours. The WorleyParsons Reading office, United States, sponsored a Big Dream IMAX movie event for about 1,000 students. This aligned with Engineers Week, inspiring youngsters’ interest in engineering and STEM. Our Women of WorleyParsons network group in India organized a voluntary activity at Nanhi Kali’s V.P.S Muncipal School. They talked to the girls about WorleyParsons is a proud supporter of the Australian government’s new importance of education, and conducted career Colombo Plan scholarship program, providing opportunities for Australian counseling conversations to motivate them to pursue undergraduate students to undertake semester-based study and internships their education and dream of a future of financial or mentorships in 40 participating Indo-Pacific locations. We have a number of independence. As role models, they narrated stories internship starting soon in our China and South East Asia offices. about their own success. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 68 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Improving social infrastructure Social infrastructure consulting Advisian wins ‘game-changing’ social infrastructure advisory Making communities and cities more livable by promoting positive social and economic project in Indonesia outcomes and delivering lasting improvements to create great places for people to live, work With more than 261 million people living across 13,000 islands, Indonesia is the world’s and play. We deliver projects focused on the advancement of healthcare, the availability of fourth most populous country. Their increasing demand for infrastructure saw the Indonesian social housing, the enhanced education of students and the public benefit of communityGovernment take a proactive approach to attract investment in the country, offering fiscal focused precincts and infrastructure. support through a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. In 2009, the Ministry of Finance Our people bring a wide range of experience to projects from strategic planning, project established the Indonesia Infrastructure Guarantee Fund to provide government guarantees management and sensitive community consultation, through to undertaking detailed for well-structured infrastructure projects under a PPP model. To date, they have guaranteed transaction management and financial advisory roles on major Public Private Partnerships. transport, power, and communications projects – but social infrastructure has not been considered, until now. We work collaboratively with clients and stakeholders to offer advisory services across Not only did we have all the right people for each role, they also have direct experience in the complete project lifecycle, adding value the delivery of social infrastructure projects. This was a key consideration for the client who and working smarter towards the shared goal appreciated the high-quality expertise our consultants had, with many years of international of improving where people live, work and play. experience in strategic planning and delivery of various prestigious social infrastructure projects in This is how we deliver. Hong Kong, New Zealand and Australia. We have also included local Indonesian personnel in our team to provide ‘on the ground’ knowledge of social infrastructure developments in Indonesia. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 69 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com WorleyParsons Foundation projects The WorleyParsons Foundation objectives are to: Supporting disadvantaged children at Five Acres, USA • support the execution of high impact strategic community projects; Five Acres in Los Angeles cares for vulnerable children and their families in our community by • become a vehicle for direct corporate investment, fundraising and volunteering; addressing the mental and emotional health of children, ages seven through 14, affected by • expand opportunities for Group personnel to be directly or indirectly involved in Foundation trauma within their families and removed from their homes. With financial support from the activities; and WorleyParsons Foundation, four cottages were sponsored. Additional volunteer opportunities existed for tutoring/mentoring the children and helping with maintenance/improvement • raise awareness of WorleyParsons’ corporate responsibility credentials with its projects at the facility. A number of events have been held with the children including bowling stakeholders. and pizza nights, dinner and shopping, Halloween, birthdays celebrations and Christmas The Foundation continues to support communities across the globe with 12 projects dinners. progressing in FY2018: • sponsoring another 16 WorleyParsons employees to attend the Pollinate Energy Fellowship Program, India; • supporting water extraction and donating water management equipment to the refugee communities in Kakuma, Uganda; • enhancing community projects with technical studies prompting solutions for water and sanitation in small communities, Papua New Guinea; • installing water solutions to community schools in the Lake Turkana region working with Winds of Change, Kenya; • supporting engagement in high schools through Power of Engineering across Australia and other selected offices; • supporting micro-finance and education programs with Opportunity International, India; • expanding accommodation and activities for disadvantaged children at Five Acres, USA; • supporting Houston Hurricane recovery efforts with United Way, USA; • supporting the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation via the 21st Annual Breath of Life Golf Tournament, Houston; • installing water facilities and solar power and refurbishing school facilities across a number of villages, India; • supporting water and sanitation workshops with the Centre of Affordable Waste and Sanitation Technology, Colombia; and • sponsoring film production celebrating local culture, Timor Leste; CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 70 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com WorleyParsons Foundation Awards 2018 The sixth annual WorleyParsons Foundation Awards recognized and acknowledged employees for their personal contribution in activities that help promote our key corporate responsibility themes. 715 Foundation Awards issued to employees CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 71 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com WorleyParsons is deploying our largest socioenvironmental project in the Brazilian Amazon Aimed at improving the lives of people in and around Altamira in the Brazilian Amazon, the USD$2 billion project includes constructing new housing, schools, sanitation and infrastructure as well as shipyards, a fish market and beaches. The sanitation efforts alone supply water and sewage for 100,000 people. Education activities have improved schools for 34,000 students and created classrooms for 15,000 additional children. “Using our expertise to benefit communities is the greatest reward of our profession,” said Neil Robertson, regional managing director and Group Leadership Team representative. “I had the opportunity to see the education, infrastructure and economic benefits of this project on the local community first hand.” The local economy, heavily dependent upon the fishing industry, has been strengthened with the construction of two shipyards, formation of 60 workers’ organizations, 13 occupational health and safety courses, an artisanal fishing center and a fish market. Infrastructure improvements are vast, including the development of nine bridges, 32 kilometres of roads, six berths, the Natural Park of Altamira and three beaches. Extensive social monitoring and small business support has also bolstered this community. “This successful project is another way we are meeting the world’s changing resourcing and energy needs,” Neil said. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 72 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com 10. GRI CONTENT INDEX TABLES The value of the sustainability reporting process is that it ensures organizations consider their impacts on these sustainability issues, and enables them to be transparent about the risks and opportunities they face. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 73 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level GRI102 GENERAL DISCOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Page 4 Included 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Annual Report Included 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 5 Included 102-4 Location of operations Page 5 Included 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 5 Included 102-6 Markets served Annual Report Included Page 5 102-7 Scale of the organization Included Annual Report Page 5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Partially included WGEA Report 102-9 Supply chain Page 26 Included Page 5 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Page 27 Included Annual Report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-12 External initiatives Page 7 Included 102-13 Membership of associations Page 7 Included Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page II Included Annual Report 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Included Corporate Governance Statement Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 20 Included 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 20 Included CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 74 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Statement Included 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Page 6 Included Critical concerns are communicated to the Board through: • Internal Audit reports as to the effectiveness of the Company’s management of its material business risks and internal controls; 102-33 Communicating critical concerns • the Corporate Risk Management Report; Included • the CEO’s monthly reports; and • other specialist reporting (e.g. in relation to health and safety, corporate responsibility and diversity and inclusion). 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Corporate Governance Statement Partially included 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report Included 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report Included 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Annual Report Included 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio WGEA Report Partially included 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Information unavailable CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 75 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 10 Included 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Information unavailable 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 10 Included 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 10 Included Page 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Included Page 12 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report Included 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 10 Included 102-47 List of material topics Page 10 Included 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting Page 10 Included 102-50 Reporting period Page 6 Included 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 6 Included 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 6 Included 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Page 84 Included 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards Page 6 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index Tables Included 102-56 External assurance Page 6 Included GRI103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and their boundaries Page 10 Included Grievances about labor practices, impacts on society, environment and human Page 20 103-2 Partially included rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Page 26 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 76 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level Page 20 Page 26 Page 32 Page 38 Page 45 Our People Policy outlines commitments to the development, safety and support of our people. Some of our commitments are to: 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • promote a safe and healthy working environment for our people. We provide our people Included with access to protective equipment and training to perform their tasks safely; • support our people to achieve their choices in work and life balance; • provide a work environment that is free of any form of harassment or discrimination, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats; and • maintaining an open channel for communication where we provide a mechanism for hearing, processing and settling grievances for our people. In many locations, our people are provided access to an employee assistance program. Corporate Governance Statement GRI200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS GRI201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Page 32 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Included Annual Report Page 32 Page 44 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Included Page 45 Annual Report CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 77 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level Each location within WorleyParsons has its own locally defined employee benefit schemes. Full benefits are provided to full-time and part-time employees. Support from the Employee Assistance Program and ongoing contributions to retirement funds are provided to our casual employees depending on national regulations. The organization benefits for full-time and part-time employees can vary by location, and include: 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans • insurance (e.g. life, long term disability, accidental death and dismemberment); Included • salary continuance insurance; • contributions to retirement fund; • health and dental coverage; • parental leave; and • paid time off for illness. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report Included GRI202 MARKET PRESENCE Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum 202-1 Information unavailable wage Page 53 The diversity flag method of measuring diversity in our leadership teams means a diverse leader will have at least one diversity flag that we have defined as: • a gender flag; where diverse is female (or self-identified as female); • an age flag; below 40 or above 60 where it is desired to have a mix of ages in our 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Partially included leadership teams; and • a cultural flag; where we use a proxy measure of more than one language spoken fluently to represent those who come from culturally diverse backgrounds or have lived and worked across cultures. We also track the number of nationalities and in-country leaders as part of our Diversity Scorecard. CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 78 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level GRI203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Page 66 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 69 Partially included Page 70 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Page 33 Included GRI204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Page 28 Partially included GRI205 ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Corporate Governance Statement Included 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Page 21 Included 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Page 21 Included GRI206 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR No legal action has been taken against WorleyParsons for anti-competitive behavior or anti206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Included trust or monopolistic practices. GRI300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS GRI301 MATERIALS 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Not applicable 301-2 Recycled input materials used Page 50 Partially included 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Not applicable GRI302 ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Page 48 Included 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Page 48 Included 302-3 Energy intensity CDP Submission Included 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 48 Included 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Page 48 Included GRI303 WATER 303-1 Water withdrawal by source CDP Submission Partially included CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 79 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable 303-3 Water recycled and reused CDP Submission Partially included GRI304 BIODIVERSITY Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 304-1 Not applicable and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Not applicable 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in 304-4 Not applicable areas affected by operations GRI305 EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 49 Included 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 49 Included 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Information unavailable 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 49 Included 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 48 Included 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Not applicable GRI306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Information unavailable 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Information unavailable 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Information unavailable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Information unavailable GRI307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 48 Included GRI308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Page 26 Included 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Page 26 Included CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 80 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level GRI400 SOCIAL STANDARDS GRI401 EMPLOYMENT Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age During the reporting period, our workforce increased by 3,480 people to 26,050 people, as of 401-1 Partially included group, gender, and region 30 June 2018 Each location within WorleyParsons has its own locally defined employee benefit schemes. Full benefits are provided to full-time and part-time employees. Support from the Employee Assistance Program and ongoing contributions to retirement funds are provided to our casual employees depending on national regulations. The organization benefits for full-time and part-time employees can vary by location, and include: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 401-2 • insurance (e.g. life, long term disability, accidental death and dismemberment); Included part-time employees, by significant locations of operation • salary continuance insurance; • contributions to retirement fund; • health and dental coverage; • parental leave; and • paid time off for illness. 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender WGEA Report Partially available GRI402 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS WorleyParsons’ locations comply with local employment laws with regards to minimum 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Partially included notice periods. GRI403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety Page 60 403-1 Included committees Page 61 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 Page 60 Partially included absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Information unavailable 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Information unavailable GRI404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 59 Partially included 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 59 Partially included CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 81 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 404-3 Page 59 Partially included development reviews GRI405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 53 Partially included 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Page 54 Partially included GRI406 NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Page 38 Included GRI407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 407-1 Page 38 Included collective bargaining may be at risk GRI408 CHILD LABOR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Page 38 Included GRI409 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 409-1 Page 38 Included labor GRI410 SECURITY PRACTICES 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Page 38 Included GRI411 RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Page 38 Included GRI412 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 412-1 Page 38 Included assessments Page 20 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Partially included Page 38 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights Page 38 412-3 Partially included clauses or that underwent human rights screening Page 39 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 82 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com GRI content index GRI Indicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable GRI No Description Location Reporting Level GRI413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 413-1 Page 66 Included development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 413-2 Page 66 Included communities GRI414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT Page 26 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Included Page 39 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Page 26 Included GRI415 PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions Page 20 Included GRI416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Page 60 Partially included Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 416-2 Page 60 Partially included products and services GRI417 MARKETING AND LABELING 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Not applicable Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 417-2 Not applicable labeling Confidentiality 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications constraints GRI418 CUSTOMER PRIVACY Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses Confidentiality 418-1 of customer data constraints GRI419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Page 20 Partially included CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 83 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com Visit us online annualreport2018.worleyparsons.com to view our 2018 results documents and information on our business operations. Stay up to date www.worleyparsons.com Our corporate website has key information about our business, operations, investors, media, sustainability, careers and suppliers. Keep in touch We welcome your feedback and suggestions. Please email Marni Oaten, Corporate Responsibility Director: corporate.responsibility@worleyparsons.com WorleyParsons Limited Level 12 333 Collins Street Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain 84 Economic Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI Content Index Tables worleyparsons.com
