Sustainability Report 2017 M AÎTRE CHOCOL ATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 18 45 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Lindt & Sprüngli portrait As a global leader in the premium chocolate segment, Lindt & Sprüngli looks back on a long-standing tradition of over 170 years which takes its origins in Zurich. Production, Marketing, and Sales 8 1 Kilchberg, CH 2 Aachen, DE 3 Paris, FR 25 9 4 Induna Olona, IT 6 2 5 Vienna, AT 10 6 London, GB 3 1 5 7 Barcelona, ES 4 8 Stockholm, SE 12 9 Warsaw, PL 7 10 Prague, CZ 11 11 Moscow, RU 12 Luserna S. Giovanni, IT 15 13 Kansas City, USA 17 13 14 14 Stratham, USA 16 22 15 Toronto, CA 21 16 Kansas City, USA 24 20 17 San Leandro, USA 18 São Paulo, BR 19 Cape Town, ZA 20 Hong Kong, CN 21 Shanghai, CN 22 Tokyo, JP 23 Sydney, AU 18 Regional offices 19 23 24 Dubai, UAE 25 Dublin, IRL . Today, quality chocolate products by Lindt & Sprüngli are made at 12 own production site in Europe and the USA. They are distributed by 25 subsidiary companies and branch offices, in more than 410 own stores, and also via a comprehensive network of more than 100 independent distributors around the globe. With over 14,000 employees, the Lindt & Sprüngli Group reported sales worth CHF 4.1 billion in 2017. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Content –4– Foreword of ou r CEO –5– M i lestones 2 017 –6– Inter v iew w it h ou r CFO –9 – Susta i nabi l it y approach – 14 – Susta i nably sou rced – 28 – Susta i nably produced – 38 – Susta i nably consu med – 43 – Out look – 45 – Susta i nabi l it y G over na nce – 46 – About t h is repor t L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Foreword of our CEO Dear Sir, dear Madam, Our company is more than 170 years old, and this long history cocoa bean supply chain fully traceable and verified. So it makes speaks volumes for our ability to focus on and commit ourselves to perfect sense for us to continue with our engagement in this area. a long-term development. We intend to carry on this sustainable Our company aims to deliver continuous improvement across and profit-oriented way of doing business for the next 170 years too. all aspects of sustainability. The next pages (p. 6ff.) contain an inAs part of this commitment, we have broken down our sustainterview with our CFO Martin Hug and provide a summary of what ability strategy into three core areas: sourcing, to ensure we have a we managed to achieve in 2017. Within the Group management sustainable supply of key resources; production, where we face team, Martin is responsible for the issue of sustainability and cocertain demands as an employer and in terms of our approach to ordinates and monitors the measures we pursue in his role as Head Dr Dieter Weisskopf, CEO Lindt & Sprüngli Group both renewable and non-renewable resources; and consumption, of the Sustainability Executive Team. The extensive Sustainability as regards our responsibility towards clients and consumers. Report 2017, which follows, provides detailed insights into all the Across all three areas, we have defined priorities with goals and material issues. measures and set out a medium-term framework for sustainable Without the many small steps taken by all our employees in the commercial operations. We are concentrating on sustainability ascourse of their day-to-day work, the company as a whole would pects of particular importance to our stakeholders and to us as a barely make any progress at all. I extend my thanks to all employcompany. Our sustainability strategy also reflects the ten principles ees and ask them to continue their step-by-step journey towards of the UN Global Compact. We have been committed to this inicontinuous improvement in the coming years too. tiative since 2009 and provide an update on the progress we have made in our annual Sustainability Report. Our sustainable corporate management takes the entire value chain into account, which means we think of everything from the cocoa bean to the finished product and set priorities accordingly as part of our “bean to bar” strategy. For Lindt & Sprüngli as a comDr Dieter Weisskopf pany and for me personally, sustainable cocoa sourcing has been a CEO Lindt & Sprüngli Group core issue for over ten years. 2020 will soon be upon us, and this marks an important milestone as the year our goal of making our L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Milestones 2017 Lindt & Sprüngli Promise: “All products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain.” Sustainably sourced 60 448 cocoa farmers participating in our Lindt & Sprüngli 79% of our cocoa beans sourced 86% of our whole unprocessed hazelnuts are sourced Framing Program in Ghana, Ecuador, Madagascar, in 2017 were traceable and from Italy, Oregon (USA) or a pro­g ram for and Papua New Guinea. externally verified. sustainably hazelnuts in Turkey. Sustainably produced –36% –54% –18% –87% CO2 emissions per ton produced water consumption per ton energy consumption per ton lost-time accidents rate per since 2008 excl. Russell Stover. produced since 2008 produced since 2008 100,000 working hours since excl. Russell Stover. excl. Russell Stover. 2008 excl. Russell Stover. Sustainably consumed >106 800 consumer contacts recorded and handled. 1% of consumer inquires were critical questions or remarks on various sustainability issues. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Interview with our CFO Martin Hug has been CFO of the Lindt & Sprüngli Group since the start of 2017 – as well as Head of the Sustainability Executive Team, by virtue of this position. This team ensures that sustainability initiatives are implemented across the entire Group. In this interview, Martin Hug explains what he understands by sustainability, outlines the current priorities in terms of sustainability management, and provides an overview of the progress made during 2017. Mr. Hug, why is sustainability important to you? of our raw ingredients, particularly cocoa beans. This is why For me personally, it’s important because I’d like to leave my chilwe have developed our own procurement system with the dren and grandchildren with a world whose fabric remains intact Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, which we have now imple– from an environmental, social, and economic perspective. These mented in four countries. three aspects are closely interlinked in business terms, inasmuch as a company’s financial success is at risk if no attention is paid to Why is the Farming Program the right approach for social or environmental sustainability. This is why sustainability is Lindt & Sprüngli and what makes the program successful? so important to me as CFO of the Lindt & Sprüngli Group. Our As a premium chocolate manufacturer, we direct our sustainabilisustainability strategy covers the material issues associated with ty efforts towards both the entire supply chain for cocoa and the these three aspects and gives them some structure along the value demand for cocoa for all the products made by the Lindt & Sprüngchain – covering the three areas of sourcing, production, and conli Group. By 2020, our entire cocoa bean supply chain should be Martin Hug, CFO Lindt & Sprüngli Group and Head sumption. fully traceable and verified by external parties, so this applies to all of the Sustainability Executive Team regions of origin. The way we can achieve this is through our Within these three areas of sourcing, production, and conLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. This gives us control over every sumption: are there individual aspects you feel are of central step of the production chain and allows us to integrate our own importance to Lindt & Sprüngli? systems and processes in terms of sustainability. Basically, all the issues we have considered in our sustainability It also means we are responsible for everything we do, rather strategy are very important, and we are keen to improve continuthan delegating responsibility to others. We mainly focus our efforts ously across all these areas. Two issues of particular importance I on farmers and their families, on employees, and on the commuwould like to pick out are climate change, including its impact on nities concerned. This helps us ensure that investments really do producers of our agricultural commodities, and the sustainability reach farmers and their communities, and we have direct control L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 of where the money goes and what it is used for. Long-term gram. Our program undergoes an annual review by a third We feel this is part of a first-class quality assurance policy and stable partnerships with suppliers are a central factor party (a so-called external verification). For this reason, that befits a manufacturer of premium chocolate. in the success of our premium products. we have enjoyed having The Forest Trust (TFT) as a partner since 2015. The summaries of the TFT assessment reWhat were the priorities of Lindt & Sprüngli in 2017? Partnership is definitely a key word: sustainability ports are made publicly available. Among other things, And what specifically has been achieved? only works through collaboration and when everyone they contain specific suggestions for how to improve each By 2017, as much as 79% of cocoa beans were traceable pulls together. How does this actually work with program. The work done by TFT is of great value to us and and externally verified. We have managed this by increasLindt & Sprüngli’s internal and external partners, and represents a great alternative to certifications. TFT’s recing the number of farmers taking part in the program in where do the challenges lie? ommendations tend to be holistic and emphasize the imthe respective countries. We will continue to follow this The Lindt & Sprüngli Group is highly decentralized, and portance of continuous progress. And this is completely approach in the coming years as well. At the same time, subsidiaries enjoy considerable independence and autonconsistent with our own philosophy. A second example we are continuously enhancing the quality of the omy. This offers some important advantages. For example, would be the collaborations within our industry, e.g. with Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program and adapting it to it favors dynamism, proximity to the market, innovation, the World Cocoa Foundation or the Swiss Platform for farmers’ needs. This in turn enables us to keep delivering and competition within the business. At the same time, a Sustainable Cocoa. We are convinced that various sustainnew improvements. I’d like to mention in particular three decentralized structure presents us with certain challengability challenges can be managed more efficiently and in examples associated with our program in Ghana. We are es, particularly when global directives and programs need a more targeted manner by the sector as whole, without implementing our action plan against child labor across to be implemented at a local level. It is a case here of workundermining the healthy competition between players in all districts, and part of a project is aimed at diversifying ing together to come up with a suitable compromise. We the market. and increasing farmers’ incomes to make them less depenshould not undermine the autonomy and independence dent on farming and selling cacao. We have also introduced of Group companies, but we also need to ensure certain In spite of your best efforts, the progress being made is the first farmers’ savings groups in Ghana, which will give standards in terms of sustainability are complied with considered as too slow by certain NGOs and consumer them more opportunities to save money and fund things. across the board. So far, we have managed to pull of this protection organizations. How does Lindt & Sprüngli balancing act within the Sustainability Executive Team. react to this kind of criticism? Collaboration with external partners covers a wide vaWe value constructive criticism, whether from NGOs, anriety of aspects. I would like to pick up on just two examalysts, investors, or consumers. We take all feedback seriples associated with the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Proously, analyze it, and implement any measures required. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 What are the goals in terms of production So what happens now? What is the next milestone and consumption and what have you achieved for you? in these areas? We focus firmly on sourcing and are well on the way to In terms of sustainable production, Lindt & Sprüngli has achieving our goal, by 2020, of ensuring 100% of cocoa set itself a goal of reducing energy and water consumption beans are traceable and verified. Having said that, we need and also CO2 emissions by an average of 2% a year. These to make sure we stick firmly to the path we have chosen. are not absolute objectives, but apply to each ton produced. Based on our successful pilot projects, we aim to increase It’s all about becoming more efficient. By 2017 we have the cocoa butter volume with beans from sustainability archieved our goals across the whole Lindt & Sprüngli programs to 20% in 2018. There are also plans to source Group. Compared to 2015, we have reduced energy con100% of whole unprocessed hazelnuts, which we purchase sumption by a total of 6%. The same goes for water conin Turkey, from sustainability programs by 2020. This will sumption with a reduction of 10%. The decrease in CO2 see us achieve further important milestones in the sustainemission was 7%. able procurement of raw materials. We also, however, want Another area which has top priority at Lindt & Sprüngto make progress with resource efficiency. So it looks like li is workplace safety. We have a vision of eliminating all our priorities for the coming years are pretty clear. At the accidents resulting in time off work. And while 2017 we same time, the dialogue we maintain with our stakeholders took further actions in this area, we have yet to achieve will help to identify additional issues which could become our vision. important in the future. In terms of consumption, we are working on various issues. We are always looking to improve the way we communicate with our consumers. This is why we launched the new microsite on the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program during 2017. We will further develop this interactive and consumer-friendly site during 2018 with a view to informing relevant stakeholders about the progress we have made with the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Sustainability approach All products leaving our production facilities live up to our commitment to sustainability along the entire value chain. With the Lindt & Sprüngli promise, we declare that all Sourced The pillars of our business model products leaving our production facilities live up to our commitment to sustainability along the entire value chain. To ensure a sustainable supply of key resources, Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to managing the impact Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to long-term partnerships on sustainability of its operations along the entire value with suppliers and to traceability of raw materials. TraceGlobal Presence chain. We adopt an approach of continuous progress based ability of raw materials is the key to sustainable sourcing Marketing Excellence on improving our performance step by step. With this in and an important step toward improving the working and Trade Relationship mind, we are always striving to advance our contribution environmental conditions of suppliers. Technology to a sustainable future, with a focus on the material issues along our value chain. We monitor progress constantly Produced with a series of key performance indicators. 28 issues of Quality Innovation Sustainability particular relevance were identified along the Lindt Lindt & Sprüngli premium products require high-quality & Sprüngli value chain – based on a materiality test – withraw and packaging materials, dedicated employees, and Sustainability is one of the main pillars of our business in the areas of sourcing, production, and consumption. respect for the environment. Therefore, we strive, not only model. Our vision goes beyond making the finest premium These material issues provide a priority for Lindt & Sprüngas an employer but also as a member of society, to ensure chocolate, because our high production standards ought li’s efforts and activities. our operations as a business are environmentally sustainto be matched by equally high standards of ethics and susable and both ethically and socially responsible. tainability. This is why we promise that all products leaving our production facilities will live up to our commitment Consumed to sustainability along the entire value chain. The significance Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to responsible Lindt & Sprüngli has a responsibility to customers and conbehavior is reflected in various policies and in our sustainsumers. Strict quality controls ensure that our products ability strategy, which defines the way Lindt & Sprüngli goes meet our high standards – from the raw materials right about its business. through to customers and consumers. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Taking into account the stakeholders’ concerns and interests We want our sustainability approach to be relevant and credible. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to providing the various stakeholders with a transparent and detailed overview of the company. Our stakeholders should be confident that due account is being taken of their interests. Stakeholder Lindt & Sprüngli engagement Stakeholder Lindt & Sprüngli engagement Consumers Consumer satisfaction is given top priority at Lindt & Sprüngli. Consumer service specialists Universities/Research Lindt & Sprüngli works with various universities and research institutions along the entire at the Lindt & Sprüngli Group record each inquiry, compliment, and complaint and institutions value chain. We support existing research facilities and projects, help develop new deal with these thoroughly. Consumers also have the opportunity to get in touch with our applied science projects, and support students with academic assignments involving employees directly in the growing number of Lindt and Ghirardelli Retail Shops. They research topics of relevance to us. can also meet Lindt Master Chocolatiers at numerous marketing and sponsorship events. Retail/Distributors/ Customers for semi-finished Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate products, as well as retailers, Lindt & Sprüngli has a presence on various social media platforms such as Facebook Customers distributors, and other corporate customers for finished products, ensure our products and Twitter too. These new communication platforms allow direct interaction and give us are available to consumers all year round. They have their channel-specific customer a chance to pick up on our consumers’ needs, questions, and comments in real time. service representatives at their respective subsidiaries, who take care of their needs in Employees Employees are our biggest asset. We promote a feedback culture where open and honest a professional manner. Lindt & Sprüngli brands are also represented at trade fairs and dialogue is welcome and all employees are made aware of the career opportunities other events so partners can discover our latest creations for themselves. available to them. Our annual Talent Management dialogue helps to identify, assess, Governments Lindt & Sprüngli does not conduct active lobbying at government level. However, Group and develop the professional competencies and performance of our employees. We companies are members of several local industry associations. Government institutions conduct an employee survey every three years across the Group. are becoming increasingly important in terms of providing advice and support for Investors We inform investors, analysts, and proxy advisors about our half-year and annual results sustainability projects. and other relevant company news. The annual general meeting provides a forum to Media We proactively inform the media about relevant issues to ensure the public image exchange information and opinions, as do smaller conferences and telephone conversaof Lindt & Sprüngli is both exemplary and accurate. Our communication with the media tions and both roadshows and individual meetings. is honest, fact-based, and transparent – while respecting any business secrets. We Civil society The Sustainability Manager is the main contact point for civil society organizations and publish reports and press releases regarding the half-year and annual results, as well organizations NGOs. This person maintains ongoing one-to-one dialogues with a view to showcasing as press releases on any other business-related matters such as media events, annual and NGOs Lindt & Sprüngli’s sustainability work, asking for feedback, taking on board suggestions general meetings, and field trips, and answer questions from the media. and reservations, and assessing the potential for partnerships. Farmers and suppliers Constant high quality in terms of raw materials and packaging, reliable partners for both transport and logistics and the development, supply, and maintenance of machinery, not to mention providers of a whole host of support services – these are all things our business simply cannot do without. Lindt & Sprüngli procurement staff primarily, as well as other employees, are in regular touch with our supply chain partners so both parties can optimize further developments. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy is based on the material issues and includes commitments and strategic goals, main activities, indicators for measuring progress, and clear responsibilities for each issue. This Sustainability Report provides an overview of our measures and achievements in 2017 with regard to our goals and commitments. Sustainably sourced Sustainably produced Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Secured supply We develop and maintain long-term contractual relationships pp. 14–25 Climate change and We reduce our CO2 emissions by reducing our energy use, pp. 29–30, 36 of raw materials with suppliers for all critical raw materials in order to secure a greenhouse gas emissions increasing our share of renewable energies, and optimizing long-term supply of high-quality products. transport and logistics. Farmer education Farmers who supply us are capable of applying good pp. 14–25 Water and waste water We reduce fresh water use within our operations and the p. 30 and capacity building agricultural, social, environmental, and business practices in the amount of waste water generated. management of their farm. Environmental impact of We reduce packaging sizes and use recyclable materials where p. 25 Agricultural development Our supply of raw materials promotes agricultural development pp. 14–25 packaging material possible. At the same time, we try and strike a balance between in countries of origin. visually appealing packaging and quality aspects associated with product protection. Biodiversity and The cultivation of the raw materials we source does not pp. 14–25 soil fertility jeopardize the long-term suitability of land for agricultural use. Waste and recycling We reduce waste and increase the recycling rate within our pp. 30–31 operations. Investments in We know about specific infrastructure needs in the countries of pp. 14–25 rural infrastructure origins of our raw materials and create networks of target Work culture We maintain an open work culture characterized by respect, pp. 31–33 groups so they can enjoy or improve access to rural infrastructrust, and fairness. ture. We promote teamwork and facilitate communication and pp. 31–33 Diversity of cocoa We contribute to the diversity of cocoa varieties. p. 23 understanding across all areas, business segments, and regions varieties to create a company of people who support each other for mutual success. Core labor standards Core labor standards are respected along our entire supply pp. 14–25 chain. We encourage, recognize, and reward individual innovation, pp. 31–33 personal initiative, and people’s leadership skills throughout the Climate change and We reduce CO2 emissions along our supply chain. pp. 29–30, 36 organization. greenhouse gas emissions L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Sustainably produced Sustainably consumed Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Employee satisfaction We offer an attractive working environment and maintain or p. 32 Product quality We abide by high standards to ensure product quality. pp. 38–39 and retention increase employee engagement, satisfaction, and retention. Product safety We abide by the highest standards to ensure product safety. pp. 38–39 Employee development We ensure that all key positions are staffed with qualified and pp. 32–33 Consumer and Customer and consumer satisfaction is the main goal of p. 40 and training motivated employees and that talented candidates are customer satisfaction everything we do. developed internally to fill these positions. We answer to consumer complaints, inquiries, and compliments p. 40 Work-life balance We support our employees in finding and maintaining a healthy p. 31 promptly and individually. work-life balance. We therefore strive to find the right balance Genetically modified Lindt, Caffarel, Küfferle, and Hofbauer branded products are p. 41 between efficiency and productivity on the one hand and organisms (GMO) non-GMO. offering employees support to cope with increasing workloads. At the same time, we help employees whenever possible to Product information Consumers can rely on us to provide information of a high pp. 40–41 find the right work-life balance for them. and labeling standard. Occupational health We offer a healthy and safe workplace. Our vision is to p. 34 We apply correct labeling to all our products. pp. 40–41 and safety eliminate all accidents resulting in time off work. Marketing and Children are not the main target group for our marketing and p. 40 Social security Our compensation/remuneration, social security benefits, and p. 34 advertising practices advertising campaigns. and compensation other schemes meet or exceed statutory requirements. Diversity and We offer equal opportunities and promote diversity in terms of p. 33 equal opportunity employment, development, and promotion for all who meet the relevant requirements. When hiring, we do not discriminate against anyone on the grounds of gender, age, religion, political opinion, union affiliation, disability, national or social origin, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or color, nor any other relevant characteristic protected under the law. Local development We promote local development in the areas where our p. 36 production, marketing, and distribution sites are based. Corruption and We do not engage in any corrupt or anti-competitive behavior. p. 34 anti-competitive behavior Philanthropy We want others to benefit from our successful business p. 35 and contribute to good causes with material assets, money, and time. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 What our partners say In the area of sustainability, Lindt & Sprüngli relies on various partners and long-term, professional cooperation with them. Here as well as on pages 37 and 44, nine of our partners appreciate our sustainable activities. Christian Steiner Country Director Madagascar Helvetas Swiss Intercooperation “We are proud to be working with Lindt & Sprüngli and the Lindt Cocoa Foundation on this innovative cocoa project in Madagascar. This ­successful collaboration between the private sector and a development agency creates many synergies. The project encompasses all aspects of sustainability: organic farming, afforestation, climate protection, and fair trade. Through its involvement, Lindt & Sprüngli is making a mark in terms of social and environmental sustainability – besides the quality of its chocolate.” Christine Müller Coordinator Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa “Lindt & Sprüngli played an active role in the formation of Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa. It is very important to have the strong commitment of the big chocolate companies. Lindt & Sprüngli’s engagement in the platform’s working groups is highly appreciated.” Tombozara Tombo C o c o a Fa r m e r o f t h e L i n d t & S p r ü n g l i Fa r m i n g P r o g r a m i n M a d a g a s c a r “I cultivate one hectare of cocoa cultivation area. I have already attended many training modules of the Program and learned a lot about the treatment of pests. All pests can be treated in a biological way, for example with tobacco, neem, papaya leaves, chili peppers or cow dung. I also learned that we have to construct toilets and avoid open defecation next to the river or in the fields.” L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Sustainably sourced Sustainability starts for Lindt & Sprüngli with the procurement of raw and packaging material. In order to guarantee the future supply of important raw material, we are committed to building long-term partnerships with suppliers, working towards full traceability of raw materials, and improving farming conditions. In 2017, we have made the following progress with our activities, among other things: — We continued to develop and expand our existing program for sustainable sourcing of cocoa. We expanded the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program for fine-flavor cocoa beans in Ecuador and Madagascar, and launched the Program also in Papua New Guinea. — During the 2016/2017 cocoa season, we conducted three successful pilot projects on the subject of sustainable cocoa butter. The experience acquired will make us even better equipped to tailor future projects to farmers’ needs. BuildL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D ing on the successful pilot phase, we will be starting an at the heart of things and aims to make us their preferred additional project in 2018 and increasing the proportion buyer. The Program is currently focusing on cocoa beans of cocoa butter made with beans from sustainability profrom Ghana, Ecuador, Madagascar, and Papua New Guingrams to 20% (no so-called mass balance*). ea. Other activities to promote sustainable sourcing of raw — 86% of the whole raw hazelnuts we sourced during 2017 material are based either on the structure of the were from Italy, the USA, or a sustainability program Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program (such as hazelnuts from from Turkey. We have thus exceeded the 75% target. By The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program comprises four steps: Turkey > see p. 24) or on global certification systems (such 2020, we will be sourcing 100% of the whole unprocessed Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization as RSPO for palm oil > see p. 24). We are continuously hazelnuts from Turkey from sustainability programs. – Register farmers and group them for trainings evaluating opportunities for implementing the Program This will mark another milestone in sustainable sourcing – Gather baseline data about farms, farmers, and communities for other countries of origin and raw materials. of raw materials. to assess their needs — As part of the integration of Russell Stover, its purchase – Establish traceability systems of cocoa beans from the farmers up to our factory doors of palmoil-containing products was converted to RSPO Traceability in 2017. Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer For Lindt & Sprüngli, traceability means knowing the origin – Train farmers in professional business, agriculture, social and ecological of a raw material and being able to establish where, how * In this context, mass balance means that beans from sustainability programs are mixed farming practices and by whom the raw material was grown. Traceability with conventional beans and processed into cocoa butter. In our projects, however, all beans from sustainability programs are processed separately from the conventional – Improve farmers’ harvests and consequently their income provides the basis for all other activities aimed at improvbeans (segregation). – Train local field staff who implement the Program on the ground ing the basic existence of farmers and villagers. Step 3: Farmer investments and community development Verification Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program – Support farmers, e.g. provide access to cocoa seedlings, shade trees, Lindt & Sprüngli tracks the ongoing progress achieved in For the procurement of cocoa beans, our most important raw and farming equipment terms of social, ecological, agricultural, and economic practices as part of its internal monitoring policy. The extermaterial, we have made a commitment to developing and – Support communities, e.g. provide access to clean drinking water or school refurbishment nal review evaluates the entire Lindt & Sprüngli Farming maintaining long-term relationships with our suppliers. The Program, including the internal performance monitoring cornerstone of our sustainable raw material sourcing strategy Step 4: Verification and continuous progress system, and makes it possible to come up with recommenis the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. The Program en– Monitor performance with internal monitoring and continuously dations for measures to improve the Program and develop monitor progress ables us to trace raw materials back to their place of origin it further. Internal monitoring of farmers’ practices com– Evaluation of the Program with independent external organizations bined with the external review of the Program provide and support farmers according to their specific needs. At the – Implement corrective actions and recommendations a kind of joint verification. This in turn makes it possible same time, we support the communities. It empowers farmers to assess the extent to which the improved agricultural, – Ensure effectiveness of the Program to manage their farms in accordance with sound agricultural, social, ecological, and economic practices adopted by social, ecological, and economic practice. These measures farmers have an impact on sustainable agricultural promote the development of agriculture in the countries of By developing long-term partnerships with our cocoa supdevelopment, particularly in terms of the livelihood of origin. They help safeguard the long-term use of land for agpliers, we are pursuing the overall goal of growing our farmers and their families. riculture and foster access to rural infrastructure. supply chain as a business in collaboration with our farmers. The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program places farmers L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D A third party reviews the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Proportation costs can limit the incomes of cocoa farmers. And Traceability and verification of all cocoa beans gram at least once a year in each country where it is imthere are ecological challenges such as climate change and % of cocoa beans sourced % of cocoa beans sourced traceable plemented (external verification). For this purpose, we declining soil fertility and biodiversity due to overuse of the traceable* and verified (under the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program) have been working together with ▶ The Forest Trust (TFT) land, excessive use of chemicals, and deforestation. To tack97 92 91 89 since 2015. We have been a member of TFT since 2016, le these challenges, Lindt & Sprüngli, together with various 82 and any progress made with the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming partners, is running the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. 79 Program is published on the ▶ TFT Transparency Hub plat57 form. The publicly available summary of the assessment Non-fine-flavor and fine-flavor cocoa 32 reports contains specific suggestions on how the Program A distinction is made between non-fine-flavor and fine-­ 13 might be improved. Lindt & Sprüngli believes the work of flavor cocoa. Non-fine-flavor cocoa is a lower-quality cocoa 0 associated with robust and often one-dimensional flavors TFT offers a great alternative to the certification/compli2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (generally of the Forastero variety). Non-fine-flavor cocoa ance audits. TFT recommendations are meaningful and accounts for the largest share (90-95%) of total cocoa * In 2017, the Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system was used in Ghana holistic and aimed at continuous progress. We are conproduction worldwide and is mainly farmed in West Africa. and also to some extent in Ecuador and Madagascar. Cocoa beans from other countries of origin are associated with certificates of origin vinced this partnership is doing a lot to ensure any chang5-10% of worldwide cocoa harvests relate to fine-flavor which confirm the origin of the cocoa beans. Nevertheless, these es in our cocoa bean supply chain will help promote suscocoa (mostly of the Criollo and Trintario varieties). cocoa beans are not subject to any Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system. Fine-flavor cocoa is a high-quality cocoa associated with tainable development. nuanced, fine flavors. It is mainly farmed in Latin America and the Caribbean. Around 40% of all cocoa beans Cocoa processed at Lindt & Sprüngli is fine-flavor cocoa. by a third party. Combined with the extension of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ecuador and the Our goal is to ensure our supply chain establishment of the Program in Madagascar, we have for cocoa beans is fully traceable and verified ­succeeded in increasing the proportion of traceable and by 2020. externally verified cocoa beans by 22 percentage points to an overall proportion of 79% of all cocoa beans sourced. Lindt & Sprüngli sources consumer cocoa beans from Ghana. Since 2008, we have invested more than USD 22 million The largest share of fine-flavor cocoa beans comes from Latin the traceability and verification of the supply chain for in America (mainly Ecuador) as well as from Madagascar, cocoa beans and in support for farmers, their livelihood, Papua New Guinea, and the Caribbean. All beans are proand their communities through the Program. cessed in-house into cocoa liquor. Lindt & Sprüngli also sources cocoa butter and cocoa powder – as well as chocolate in the case of Russell Stover – from third-party suppliers. Our chocolate is all about high-quality cocoa beans. We like to know where these beans come from and what conditions are like on the ground. Cocoa is often farmed in counSince the start of the 2016/2017 cocoa season, all our cocoa tries where living conditions are hard. Small cultivation areas, beans from Ghana have come via the Lindt & Sprüngli low productivity, a lack of rural infrastructure, institutional Farming Program, which means our entire supply chain and governmental challenges as well as high input and transfor cocoa beans in Ghana is traceable and fully verified L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Action plan against child labor in Ghana Based on new knowledge gained from the latest ▶Tulane report on child labor in West African cocoa growing areas as well as the ▶Labour Market Research Study prepared by the International Cocoa Initiative, we have stepped up our activities in the fight against child labor. Our main measures included: — Training the entire 392 staff in how to avoid child labor and especially with reference to the ▶Ghana Hazardous Child Labour Activity Framework for the cocoa sector. — Raising awareness among communities and making people more conscious of situations which might favor child labor (e.g. via training courses for farmers and by raising the profile of the topic in communities). — Creating local child labor committees. Their members discuss cases of child labor and solution measures. — Requiring all coaches to visit at least five farms a week unannounced, with the focus on communities and farms/ farmers with a higher prevalence of child labor risks (e.g. larger distances to primary schools, larger farm sizes). — Remedying cases of child labor identified and conducting follow-up visits. These measures are also adopted with farmers from communities which are not part of our Program or when child labor is discovered beyond the cocoa farm. Remedial measures may include the following: discussions The farmers are regularly visited on their fields by local staff members. The exchange and continuous transfer of knowledge helps farmers to better manage their fields. The with and raising awareness among parents, access to labor Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program places particular value on individual coaching for farmers. services, support for the refurbishment of primary schools, activities for generating additional income, training in how to manage inputs and labor more efficiently. Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana diversification, and farm development plans). 2017 also — As a last resort, farmers not willing to follow the Ghana In 2008, we launched the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Prosaw the launch of a new sub-project in collaboration with Hazardous Child Labour Activity Framework are excluded gram in Ghana with a focus on traceability and support for the ▶Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition GAIN. The from our Program. communities. Over the years, the Program has evolved intention is to improve the nutritional situation of cocoa In addition to the work conducted in the field, the ▶Lindt Cocoa Foundation also co-funds a second research project of the substantially. Since the start of the 2016/2017 cocoa season, farmers and their families. All measures are targeted at ▶International Cocoa Initiative (ICI). The objective of this project is all Ghanaian farmers who supply us with cocoa beans have sustainable and inclusive growth. to develop further the ▶ICI's Protective Cocoa Community benefited from the four steps of the Lindt & Sprüngli FarmBelow is an outline of the main projects and successes Framework with a view to discovering which risk factors are ing Program. associated with the four steps of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farmstrongly associated with child labor and developing a scoring system for these factors. This will enable stakeholders to adopt a Again in 2017, the ▶IDH Sustainable Trade Initiative ing Program during 2016/2017 season: targeted approach to reducing the risk factors which can lead to co-funded our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghachild labor. na and supported it with expertise. This has meant jointly Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization expanding core measures (farmer organization, training More farmers joined the Program to keep up with our inservices, seedling nurseries, and demonstration plots) and creasing demand for cocoa beans. 52,833 farmers from 43 trialing new innovations (shops for agricultural needs, districts (cocoa regions) have now joined the Program and farmers’ business schools and coaching, nutrition and crop are organized into a total of 1,421 farmers’ groups (at least L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D one group per village/community). We are able to trace ily’s nutrition as well as how to take decisions on diverIncome diversification makes farmers more resilient supply volumes right back to the farmers who produced sifying their production. This also included activities Cocoa farming is a seasonal business. This means income them. for generating additional income, which is very importstreams are not evenly distributed throughout the year. The ant when cocoa harvests are poor or prices are low. volume of the harvest also depends on the climate, the age Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer Since the start of the Farmer Business School 11,109 and health of trees, and other aspects too. This is why income diversification – besides other measures such as All farmers in the Program received training in good agfarmers benefited from the training. saving – is important to farmers’ resilience and helps spread ricultural, social, and ecological practice in accordance cash flows more evenly throughout the year. In Ecuador, for with the ▶Certification Capacity Enhancement Curriculum. In keeping with our strategy of continuous improvement, example, farmers were trained how to make their own This is a uniform training curriculum developed by the we will be expanding and improving the transfer of knowlorganic liquid fertilizer. They use the fertilizer on their farms, thereby reducing costs and selling it on the local market. private sector, standard initiatives, and development orgaedge and skills to farmers and 392 local staff. The focus in Also, the Program in Ghana is increasingly favoring an nizations. The training contents, topics, and methods are future will increasingly be on individual coaching of farmapproach based on income diversification. At the Farmer constantly improved to keep farmers interested in the ers on their farm. We will also look at environmental issues Business School, farmers are shown how they can generate courses and ensure the quality of training remains high. in greater depth. additional income. They are supported with seed capital where necessary. Secondary activities in Ghana include snail Here is a selection of developments and successes during farming, fish farming, pig rearing, or diversifying what is 2016/2017 season: Step 3: Farmer investments and community development harvested on the farms with corn, cassava, cocoyam, chili, or — Our Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation System To give farmers better access to products and services they cabbage. Farmers often start with small volumes and invest (CLMRS), introduced in 2016, covers all farmers. This need for their farms, we continued with the following acthe first profits into expanding secondary activities, such as purchasing the materials for a bigger pond. And farmers are system is defined in the action plan against child labor tivities in 2017: already reporting back with initial success stories and how (> see the text box on the action plan against child labor — In addition to the free distribution by the Ghanaian they managed to diversify and increase their income. in Ghana, p. 17). Farmers are regularly made aware of government of improved cocoa seedlings, the 2016/2017 the issue, and visits are made to their farms accordingcocoa season also saw 113 seedling nurseries set up as ly. Unannounced inspections are conducted at farms part of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. The where child labor is seen as a risk. If a case is discovered, participating farmers manage these nurseries. In the measures are introduced to rectify the problems. This 2016/2017 cocoa season 466,923 seedlings germinated also applies to cases discovered beyond the actual farm (survival rate of 83%), enabling 420 hectares of new, or among farmers who are not participating in the Prohybrid seedling types to be planted or replanted. We gram. distributed some 354,000 shade trees to help farmers — In the 2016/2017 cocoa season as many as 6,405 farmers ensure the recommended shade level on their farms. (whereof 40% women) attended a one-week Farmer In addition, there were 297 plantain sucker propagation Business School launched in collaboration with the sites, which produced 29,783 shoots in the 2016/2017 ▶Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarcocoa season and can also be used as shade trees to beit (German Agency for International Cooperation – protect young cocoa plants. GIZ). Here they learned how to calculate costs, sales, — As additional incentives in the form of benefits in kind, or return on investments, the benefits of a professional farmers received (depending on the volume delivered) organization, and how to access financial services. the kind of farming equipment they need, such as WelFarmers were also trained in how to improve their famlington boots, machetes, fertilizers, and overalls. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D — In 2017, the pilot phase for the inclusive business modassessment showed where additional boreholes are reThe external verification was conducted by ▶The Forest el with the ten community-based stores continued, and quired, and Lindt & Sprüngli released the funds for 60 furTrust. The recommendations for improvement from last they expanded once more their offer. The stores sell not ther boreholes. The boreholes will be finished during the year’s assessment were taken into account. These help us only products and services for cocoa farms, but also for 2017/2018 cocoa season and handed over to train Water to keep developing the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program other agricultural activities within communities. They Management Committees, who will be responsible for their in Ghana and innovate further. also meet other household needs with things like solar upkeep. lamps. If these products are available locally, farmers Improved infrastructure within primary schools is anLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ecuador can save both travelling time and money. other key to improving the general welfare in rural areas. In 2014, we launched our ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Pro— As farmers diversify their income sources, they become The idea is to increase both the number of school places gram in Ecuador – our most important country of origin more independent and create the conditions for a betand attendance rates, which will also minimize the risk of for fine-flavor cocoa beans. Since 2015, we have been conter quality of life. The ▶Farmer Business School is the child labor at the same time. During implementation of tinuously scaling the Program up. The overall goal is to foundations for this. In addition, farming communities the Action plan against child Labor (see the text box on develop a traceable cocoa bean supply chain with a stable or individual farms were supported with seed capital the Action plan, p. 17), our local implementation partner pool of producers of fine-flavor cocoa beans. Below is an with a view to, say, developing a small fish farm in the in Ghana conducted an analysis of primary schools in viloutline of the main projects and successes associated with village, a snail farm (a delicacy in Ghana), or a pig farm lages with farmers from the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming the four steps of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program or diversifying the cultures on their farm (> see the text Program (“Community Assessment”). The assessment during the 2016/2017 cocoa season 2017: box on diversification of income to make farmers more found that 29 out of 38 assessed schools require improveresilient, p. 18). ment. Lindt & Sprüngli will fund the renovation of these Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization — Another important aspect of cocoa farmers’ resilience schools. The work is due to take place during the 2017/2018 There is still a growing interest among farmers in joining is their ability to save and get access to money when cocoa season. Considerable emphasis is being placed on the Program. The Program now covers 5,427 farmers. cash flow is tight. As it is often impossible to open a community involvement with a view to improving the sitThanks to the traceability system now implemented, we savings account with a bank, the Lindt & Sprüngli Farmuation over the long term. We also hope the village comknow how much each individual farmer has contributed to ing Program helps farmers set up Village Saving and munities will be able to generate additional income through a delivery of cocoa beans. We have scaled up the associated Loan Groups or Village Saving Clubs. This enables them the various elements of the Program or even save money data on farmers, their farms, and communities. It provides to put some savings aside and access smaller loans when so that they can play a greater part in funding future inus with a coherent picture of the present status of farms as cash flow is tight. These savings groups also co-fund vestments. well as the standard of living and needs of farmers. investments in communities (e.g. the purchase of new mattresses for a hospital). Various models are currentStep 4: Verification and continuous progress Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer ly being tested and assessed, with the emphasis always The questionnaires on internal monitoring were developed Additional efforts to strengthen the farmers’ groups are bearon transparent and clearly defined rules for the deciin 2015 together with the ▶Committee on Sustainability ing fruit. As a result, we are able to offer more group-based sions made by and the management of savings groups. Assessments (COSA). And in 2017 as well, all farmers covtraining courses in classrooms and also do so as part of trainered by the Program were questioned by an employee of ing courses held on farms. The courses communicate the In terms of community development, the Program continthe Program during an internal monitoring visit. The relatest knowledge regarding good practice – in agricultural, ued to focus heavily on access to clean drinking water as sults are now being thoroughly analyzed and any amendsocial, ecological, and business terms. We offer shorter rethe essential basis for a healthy life. 151 boreholes have ments made, with the results being used for the continuous fresher courses to farmers who are not able to attend training been built so far. In the 2016/2017 cocoa season, a needs improvement of our Program. courses. Individual coaching continues to take place too. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Farmers particularly enjoy the practical training courses on demonstration plots. These give them access to expert knowledge regarding things like composting or farm rehabilitation, including grafting. Now, more practical workshops are also being offered on organic fertilizer production, which enable farmers to make, use, and even sell on their own cheap and environmentally friendly fertilizers. In the training courses, we place special emphasis on the importance and future of fine-flavor cocoa as well as on the clear distinction between fine-flavor and non-fine-flavor cocoa beans. Farmers also appreciate business training courses, where they learn how to track costs, revenues, and profits. Step 3: Farmer investments and community development Many fine-flavor cocoa trees in Ecuador are very old (40– 50 years) and produce low yields. New investments usually go into non-fine-flavor cocoa trees of the CCN-51 variety, which tend to be more professionally managed and Farmers appreciate the practical training on demonstration areas offered in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. Here they have access to expertise such as composting or seeding. therefore yield more than the old fine-flavor varieties. To In workshops they also learn how to produce organic fertilizers to protect the environment. ensure the future availability of fine-flavor cocoa, we need to motivate farmers to professionalize the farming of — monitor the development of newly planted trees and Step 4: Verification and continuous progress fine-flavor cocoa on their farms. We do this by supporting provide farmers with support and advice. This is crucial Our internal monitoring system gathers performance-reresearch into improving yields and into disease-resistant to ensuring a high survival rate for the trees. lated progress data on the objectives of the Program as fine-flavor cocoa trees (> see the chapter on cocoa diverenvisaged in the ▶Verification Guidance Document. All sity, p. 23) and by offering a comprehensive support packIn order to receive new seedlings, farmers need to prepare farmers are visited at least once a year during a monitoring age to the farmers in our Program. In addition to training at least one hectare of land to be planted with the new seedexercise. Together with the recommendations from the courses, this also means that we: lings. In 2017, over 155,250 new seedlings were planted, external assessments by ▶The Forest Trust, our data enables — distribute high-yielding and disease-resistant fine-flawhich equates to 141 hectares. Increasingly, farmers in the us to ensure the Program is continuously improved. vor cocoa seedlings from the ▶Ecuadorian National Program are also being trained in how to replace old cocoa Institute for Agricultural Research (INIAP) or INIAP-certrees via grafting with high-yielding varieties and supportLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Madagascar tified nurseries to farmers, ed with the relevant materials. This represents a cheaper and Madagascar is home to some of the finest cocoa beans and — teach groups of farmers how to establish their own nursefficient alternative. Farmers and communities were also another important country of origin of fine-flavor cocoa eries and provide them with the necessary construction given incentives in kind (depending on the volume delivfor Lindt & Sprüngli. In the Sambirano Valley in the northmaterials, and ered) for management purposes, such as chain saws for west of the country, we launched the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli pruning trees, organic fertilizers, weeding machines, etc. Farming Program during the 2015/2016 cocoa season. GivL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D en the relative scarcity (up to that point) of projects for sustainable cocoa in Madagascar, we redeveloped numerous areas of the Program with the local context in Madagascar specifically in mind in collaboration with the non-profit organization ▶Helvetas Swiss Intercooperation and other local organizations. Below is an outline of the main project elements and successes associated with the four steps of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program during the 2016/2017 cocoa season: Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization During the 2016/2017 season, the number of farmers registered for the Program increased by 56% to 1,088. The farmers are organized into groups around so-called “collecteurs” (small, community-based suppliers). Basic data was gathered about the farmers and their farms. With the traceability system implemented, we now also know in Madagascar how much each individual farmer has contributed to a delivery of cocoa beans. The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program provides free cocoa seedlings and agricultural equipment. Many cocoa trees in Papua New Guinea, for example, are old and unproductive. A “farmer pass book” (or “carnet du producteur”) has For this reason, it is very important for farmers to maintain high-yielding and disease-resistant cocoa seedlings. This creates a future perspective for the farmers. now been introduced so farmers can make a note of both training courses attended and other information such as — Food security hensive assessment of needs, which was done in 2015. As cocoa supplied. This support facilitates farmers’ ongoing — Good social practices a first priority, a drinking water system is being built and participation in the Program. — Special workshops (e.g. gender and youth aspects) should be up and running by the middle of 2018 and pro— Nursery management vide clean drinking water to 5,000-6,000 people in the Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer community. Two more drinking water systems are planned Training material was adapted and improved to reflect the Now, all the farmers participating in the Lindt & Sprüngli which will reach another 10,000 people. By the end of the specific situation and context of the cocoa farmers in MadFarming Program receive tuition in the villages from some 2016/2017 cocoa season, 12 seedling nurseries were in agascar. The modules cover the following topics, among 10 employees. Attendance rates improved greatly last year, place and 2,239 high-yielding and disease-resistant fine-flaothers: partly because alternative dates were offered for training vor cocoa seedlings were distributed to the farmers. In — Introduction to the Program courses in each case. As with other countries, the practical order to improve the quality of the post-harvesting tech— Sourcing process and supply chain training courses are particularly popular among farmers. niques, three dryers and 146 fermentation boxes were dis— Harvesting and bean quality tributed to the farming communities. As an additional — Fermentation and warehousing Step 3: Farmer investments and community development incentive and benefit farmers received – based on the vol— Farm management The focus of the farmer investments and community deume delivered – in-kind premiums in the form of import— Good environmental practices velopment in Madagascar was defined based on a compreant farming tools such as machetes, boots, or baskets. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Step 4: Verification and continuous progress In Madagascar too, all 1,088 farmers are surveyed once a year on their farms – as part of the Program by a Program employee – using a questionnaire drafted by Lindt & Sprüngli on the basis of the ▶Verification Guidance Document. This internal monitoring allows us to track the progress made by farmers in terms of applying the content they learned during training courses. ▶The Forest Trust provided an external assessment of the Program and came up with recommendations for improvement. These included adjusting the content of training courses, for example, so it is even better suited to the abilities and expertise of farmers in Madagascar. Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Papua New Guinea Another important country of origin for fine-flavor cocoa for Lindt & Sprüngli is Papua New Guinea. This is why the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program was extended to two regions of Papua New Guinea for the 2017/2018 cocoa Attending training modules is compulsory for the farmers who participate in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. Attendance is monitored accordingly by local staff members. season. With a view to achieving the overall goal of a traceable cocoa bean supply chain with a stable pool of producers, we launched the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program practice. The training includes both theory-based lessons as part of the monitoring process. The Program is continwith the following activities in the first year: in classrooms and practical courses on farms and demonuously improved and adapted to the specific national constration plots. text based on this data and recommendations from exterStep 1: Traceability and farmer organization nal assessments conducted by ▶The Forest Trust. During the first year, we gathered basic data from all farmStep 3: Farmer investments and community development ers and their farms while registering them from the ProThe farmers in the Program are offered disease-resistant Other countries of origin for cocoa beans and cocoa gram. The 1,100 or so farmers are organized around sofine-flavor cocoa seedlings as many of their cocoa plants are products called “fermentry owners” (farmers who own fermentation very old and therefore unproductive. Each group of farmers In line with our goal of having a fully traceable and exterboxes). We also set up a traceability system which tells us has access to utensils such as shears for pruning trees or nally verified cocoa bean supply chain by 2020, we will how much each farmer has contributed to cocoa bean decoping saws. Since the collaboration with the farmers is new, extend the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in future to liveries. an analysis of needs will be conducted in the first year with the remaining countries from which we source smaller a view to coming up with further supportive measures. volumes of cocoa beans. Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer We also work on developing further strategies, based The farmers are trained in groups of 25 or so at a time in Step 4: Verification and continuous progress on the principles of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, issues relating to good agricultural, social, and ecological A Program employee visits the farmers at least once a year L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D for traceable/segregated and externally verified cocoa butDiversity of cocoa varieties Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa ter, cocoa powder, and chocolate. We contribute to the diversity of cocoa With the launch of the ▶Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa It is our goal to source cocoa butter made with beans from in June 2017, the Swiss chocolate industry aims to pool sustainability programs (no mass balance). We enjoyed varieties. the efforts of various parties and promote sustainability in success with the three pilot projects we ran in 2017. We terms of cocoa. Ten strategic goals have been formulated will further scale up the number of projects in 2018 and It means a lot to Lindt & Sprüngli to have a broad diversity of accordingly. CHOCOSUISSE, SECO, and numerous businesses as well as NGOs and research institutes have signed double the volume involved from 10% to 20% of our cocoa cocoa beans and for fine-flavor beans to be widely available. a declaration of intent and thereby announced their desire butter demand. The idea is also to review and devise inLindt & Sprüngli therefore supports efforts to preserve the to make a joint and active contribution towards achieving dustry-wide solutions to the issue of cocoa butter tracediversity of cocoa varieties. This involves promoting research these goals. Both Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland and the ability as part of an expert group associated with the Swiss and development in relation to new high-yielding and disLindt Cocoa Foundation have also signed and will play Platform for Sustainable Cocoa (> see the text box on the ease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa varieties. an active role in the project groups – particularly the one Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa on this page). In 2016, we continued our partnership with the ▶Tropconcerned with the traceability of cocoa butter. The cocoa platform aims to improve substantially the living conditions Together with our suppliers, we are continuously workical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center of cocoa producers and create an attractive cocoa sector ing towards solutions which allow us to increase volumes (CATIE). Lindt & Sprüngli’s financial support helps ▶CATfor both the current and future generations. Its activity is consistently and pursue our goal of sourcing all cocoa IE’s Cacao Genetic Improvement Program run an in-house focused on developing and implementing joint initiatives, products sustainably. quality laboratory, making sure newly developed high-yieldencouraging dialogue at an international level, and both ing and disease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa varieties meet monitoring and reporting. the quality requirements of the chocolate industry. Lindt & Sprüngli is a partner of the ▶Cocoa Research Centre of the University of the West Indies in Trinidad, which owns the largest cocoa collection in the world. The funds provided by Lindt & Sprüngli cover the costs for the establishment and maintenance of a model cocoa farm, which uses the best manufacturing methods in the world and passes on additional knowledge. The goal is to support efforts to propagate high-yielding and disease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa trees. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D checked whether the knowledge acquired during training Palm oil World Cocoa Foundation Initiative – Cocoa & Forests courses is being applied and the relevant standards comInitiative plied with. We aim to purchase 100% certified sustainable By signing the Joint Frameworks of Action as part of the The target for the 2017 was for at least 75% of whole palm oil according to the RSPO certification ▶Cocoa & Forests Initiative, the Lindt & Sprüngli Group has committed itself – together with major cocoa-producing unprocessed hazelnuts to be sourced from Italy, the state models. countries Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire and other leading of Oregon (USA), or a program for sustainable hazelnuts chocolate and cocoa companies – to end deforestation in Turkey. The figure achieved (86%) actually exceeded the For our chocolate mass, we use only cocoa butter as vegecaused by cocoa farming and promote forest protection target. The goal is to ensure that all whole unprocessed table fat. Palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their fractions as and restoration in the cocoa supply chains. We see our hazelnuts from Turkey are sourced from a sustainability well as other vegetable fats are only used in certain fillings. traceable supply chains and the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program as a very good base to further develop activities program by 2020. Again in 2018, we will therefore continWe are committed to purchasing sustainable palm oil supporting the goals of the Initiative. As a next step, we ue to work closely with our Turkish hazelnut suppliers and according to the RSPO certification models. will work on the development of concrete action plans, in help them expand and improve their programs. As a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil close collaboration with World Cocoa Foundation, our (RSPO), we have been purchasing exclusively crude palm suppliers, and The Forest Trust. oil and palm kernel oil – according to the RSPO Book and Sustainable hazelnuts Claim Trading System (new: RSPO PalmTrace) – since as % of whole unprocessed hazelnuts % of Turkish whole long ago as 2011. In 2015, we achieved certification of all Hazelnuts sourced from Italy, Oregon (USA), or unprocessed hazelnuts production plants according to the RSPO segregation moda sustainable hazelnut program in sourced from sustainability el, except for Russell Stover. Ghirardelli has already Our commitment: core labor standards are Turkey programs switched some products to the segregation model and 86 respected within our supply chain. 71 achieved RSPO mass balance certification for the remain61 74 60 ing products. Russell Stover started using RSPO mass balTurkey’s Black Sea region produces up to 80% of the glob44 ance palm kernel oil during 2017. al hazelnut harvest. Problems such as child labor on hazel14 13 Lindt, Caffarel, Hofbauer and Küfferle use palm oil nut farms and poor working conditions for migrant workaccording to the RSPO segregation model for fillings ers need to be remedied. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 containing palm oil. As this standard was not sufficiently Lindt & Sprüngli has been working with its Turkish haavailable to suppliers in the USA in 2017, a small part of zelnut suppliers towards implementation of sustainable Lindt USA’s demand (0.5% of the total requirements for hazelnut programs since 2014. As with the structure assoall Lindt products) had to be covered according to other ciated with the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, our RSPO certification models (Book & Claim and mass balsuppliers first guaranteed traceability, trained farmers, and ance). Our efforts in this area paid off when we achieved supported them with specific measures for improvement the highest possible score according to the ▶WWF’s Palm as well as measuring progress. In addition, farm visits by Oil Buyers Scorecard 2016. independent experts like the ▶Fair Labor Association L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Packaging material Four steps in the Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier Our commitment is that core labor standards Sustainable Practice Program are respected within our supply chain. 1 2 3 4 Sign Lindt & Sprüngli Conduct external Develop If necessary, Packaging is a very important and sensitive part of the Supplier Code of on-site corrective Action supplier support Conduct assessment plan production chain at Lindt & Sprüngli. Apart from being appealing to the consumer and detailing the contents, packaging needs to fulfill its essential function of protecting the delicate chocolate. Supplier Sustainable Practice Program Lindt & Sprüngli works with leading packaging manuNumber of external on-site Number of suppliers supported in facturers in the respective sectors who are very keen to assessments (initial and implementing corrective actions ensure sustainability right along the supply chain. When follow-up) making procurement decisions, we consider our suppliers’ 23 performance in terms of sustainability. This allows us to 20 18 17 5 integrate supplier compliance into our supply chain man0 1 3 agement for packaging materials and improve the perfor2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 mance of our supplier portfolio over time. One important selection criterion, for example, is the condition of proHowever, many of our more decorative seasonal and production facilities as well as any programs in place for their motional packaging items, such as tin boxes or plush toys, continuous improvement. This is why manufacturers reare sourced from manufacturers in Asia, where we can ceive regular visits from our trained internal auditors. access a highly specialized market for such products. To Most of our packaging manufacturers use modern promake sure our Asian suppliers comply with the duction technologies which reduce the use of paints in ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier Code of Conduct regarding isparticular and the amount of raw materials needed. When sues such as the prohibition of forced labor and child labor buying our packaging materials, we often source these from or guarantee freedom of association, Lindt & Sprüngli suppliers located close to our production sites in Switzermonitors and improves responsible production practices land, the EU, and the USA. This means we can avoid long through the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program (SSPP) transportation routes and high emission levels. (> see succsses story, p. 27). This program is based on a progress-oriented approach, with assessment visits combined with offers of support. In some cases, subcontractors have also been integrated into the program. The program currently covers more than 80% of our purchasing expenditure on decorative packaging from Asia and is being rolled out to new suppliers on an ongoing basis. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 26 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D New website on sustainability www.farming-program.com In 2017, Lindt & Sprüngli expanded its existing Informative texts, quotes of farmers and partsustainability reporting with the addition of ners, illustrations, and descriptive film material the new microsite about the Lindt & Sprüngli show how the independent sourcing model Farming Program (www.farming-program. works that Lindt & Sprüngli has built up with the com). The website informs in English and GerLindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in 2008. Unman interactively and in an easily understandder “Grow your own cocoa tree” you will also able language about the complex issue of susfind out what it takes to make a cocoa tree grow tainable cocoa sourcing and the associated and when and how cocoa beans are harvested goal to ensure traceability of the cocoa bean by the farmers. Lindt & Sprüngli will continue to supply chain. It is aimed at all relevant stakeexpand the microsite in 2018 and will provide holder groups who can also monitor the progthe users with more information and image and ress we have made. further film material about the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. Visit our website: www.farming-program.com L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Our success stories 2017 Lindt & Sprüngli Group Lindt & Sprüngli Group Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland Bildnachweis: World Cocoa Foundation Supplier Sustainable Practice Program (SSPP) School project in Turkey Help with rebuilding after cyclone in Madagascar The Supplier Sustainable Practice Program (SSPP) monitors and looks As part of the sustainable hazelnut programs in Turkey, our supplier Cyclone Enawo hit Madagascar in March 2017, bringing high winds to improve Lindt & Sprüngli’s responsible production practices among Yavuz Hazelnut Production set up a free summer school for children and extreme rainfall. The consequences were severe, with floods providers of decorative articles from the Asia region. The market is in 2017 in Aşağıdağ Village (near Alaplı on the Black Sea). The project ­damaging infrastructure and rice farms. Also affected was the ­Ambanja highly specialized, but production standards and sustainability awareis supported by Lindt & Sprüngli and other chocolate manufacturers. region, which is known for cocoa farming. To help the reconstruction ness levels vary considerably. This is why specialist sustainability exDuring harvest time, the summer school gave around 100 children of this region, the Lindt Cocoa Foundation and Chocoladefabriken perts regularly visit our suppliers’ premises, identify any infringements aged 7 to 15 a place to play and learn. 15 teaching staff looked after Lindt & Sprüngli (Schweiz) AG donated together more than of social and environmental standards, and come up with improvethe children and taught them social skills, reading, writing, music, CHF 50,000 directly to Helvetas. They focused their aid on three areas. ment plans for suppliers. Factories which engage with the program drawing, IT, and creative design. Besides meals, the children were also The first measure was to commission a local business to repair the value its cooperative approach, which offers practical assistance and given clothes and offered medical examinations by the health authorroads, which were barely passable in places. The second was to clean helps with implementation. For example, one long-standing supplier ity as further incentives to stay away from the fields. Over a thousand up the drinking fountains in the villages. The third was to support the saw the visits as an opportunity to introduce various improvements traveling agricultural workers come to Aşağıdağ Village each year, and restoration of numerous rice fields, with some 300 households given such as electronic time recording for better monitoring of working the summer school plays an important part in eliminating child labor. seeds for replanting. hours and the construction of a new storage facility for hazardous Following the success of the school set up in Aşağıdağ Village, the goods. long-term plan is to open more of these schools in other farming regions. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 28 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Sustainably produced The most important assets we have to help us produce our premium chocolate products are our employees. So showing responsibility toward our employees, as well as toward the environment and local community is part of our corporate culture. We value committed employees and promote respect for the environment. In order to protect the environment, we are constantly looking to reduce our use of water and energy. It is particularly important to us to keep reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We do this by running local programs at production facilities and optimizing transport routes for ingredients and end products. We want to guarantee our employees a safe working environment and ensure they are satisfied with their jobs. Global programs for health and safety, for personal development, and regular global employee surveys provide a basis for continuous improvement. Our ▶Group Policies define our global reL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D quirements. The various subsidiaries are responsible for average of 2% a year over the coming years. In addition, Energy use the implementation of environmental measures or employwe are committed to increasing the share of renewable Our goal: –2% average annual rate of reduction per ton produced ee activities. energies in our overall energy use. Absolute energy us Energy use per ton of We have an ongoing policy of subjecting all existing in 1,000 MWh chocolate produced 2008 = 100% In 2017, the main highlights in terms of sustainable proplant and future investments to detailed analysis with a duction were as follows: view to identifying potential for energy savings. For exam4942 4862 4942 1001 1002 992 942 861 — We had a 21% reduction of lost time accidents (incl. ple, we were able to reduce energy consumption per ton 861 Russell Stover), compared with the previous year. This produced by 18% between 2008 and 2017 thanks to better 3291 3601 841 821 272 1 344 1 344 1 means the severity of accidents, due to the robust risk thermal insulation and energy recovery. Our subsidiary reduction processes put in place, has significantly been Russell Stover acquired at the end of 2014 is not included reduced. We continue to pursue a vision of eliminating in the calculation. The inclusion of Russell Stover increased all accidents resulting in time off work. the Group’s overall energy consumption and the energy — Due to its success in the previous years, the leadership intensity, particularly due to the nature of certain process2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 program known as the International Lindt & Sprüngli es. We started a detailed review of Russell Stover’s environ1 excluding Russell Stover 2 including Russell Stover, Index adjusted to 2015 = 100% Academy was held for the third time. The program fomental performance in 2016, and have identified some Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. cuses on strengthening management, strategy, and leadpotential for improvement. For example, we are gradually ership skills. replacing the old lighting with LEDs at the various facili— We added to our international trainee programs with a ties, and we are replacing the condensers in the cooling program in the financial sector for controllers and in the towers too. Although energy intensity did decline by a to reduce their energy use by almost a quarter. Against this marketing area for product managers. total of 6% from 2015 to 2017. backdrop, Chocoladefabriken Lindt & Sprüngli (Schweiz) — Lindt & Sprüngli in Kilchberg managed to reduce its Greenhouse gases have fallen by 36% since 2008, exAG has signed an agreement with local authorities with a waste by 70 tons and the amount of material requiring cluding Russell Stover. Consolidated emissions including view to satisfying the Kyoto Protocol. The Swiss governpost-processing by 150 tons. Russell Stover are in absolut terms higher, but are reduced ment and independent engineers have audited and certified by 7% compared to 2015. This means that we have achieved the sites of the Swiss subsidiary accordingly. We also imEnergy use and greenhouse gas emissions our average energy and emission reduction goal of 2% in plement significant energy saving projects at sites beyond the Lindt & Sprüngli production. Switzerland too. We are committed to reduce our CO2 emissions Including Russell Stover, the consolidated share of reSome of our companies use certifications to improve by reducing our energy use, increasing our newable electricity was 33% in 2017. Lindt & Sprüngli Gertheir environmental management and energy efficiency. share of renewable energies, and optimizing many and Caffarel are buying 100% from renewable sourcFor example, the production facilities in Italy and France transport and logistics. es (certified supplier mix). are certified to ISO 14001 (environmental management). The following examples illustrate our efforts to save Lindt & Sprüngli Germany is certified to ISO 51001 (enerChocolate manufacture requires energy at the various proenergy and reduce emissions: Since 1999, our subsidiary gy management). duction stages for things like heating, cooling, and transChocoladefabriken Lindt & Sprüngli (Schweiz) AG has In 2017, Caffarel continued its efforts in terms of renewable port. All these processes produce greenhouse gas emisbeen a member of ▶Zurich Energy Model. This organization energies, with 100% of power now being sourced from sions. We are committed to reducing energy consumption brings together companies interested in using energy effirenewable energy sources. The plant is also connected to and greenhouse gas emissions per ton produced by an ciently. Since it formed, it has enabled member companies a biomass plant, which enables it to save 4,200 MWh of L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D CO2 emissions — Two new projects were implemented at the production Water consumption Our goal: –2% average annual rate of reduction per ton produced Our goal: –2% average annual rate of reduction per ton produced facility of Lindt & Sprüngli France in Oloron during Absolute CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per ton of 2016 and 2017, which managed to deliver total savings Absolute water consumption in Water consumption per ton of in 1,000 tons chocolate produced 2008 = 100% of 750 MWh a year. The first project makes it possible 1,000m3 chocolate produced 2008 = 100% to reduce energy consumption by changing the settings 1302 1001 1002 1282 1162 992 932 on the cooling system. The second project involves a 7912 7862 7502 1001 1002 992 902 84 1 heat recovery unit (from waste water in washrooms) that 821 711 801 preheats water for sanitary facilities. 5061 611 641 4291 611 74 1 73 1 641 541 501 3761 3781 3751 461 Water and waste water 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 We are committed to reducing fresh water 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 excluding Russell Stover consumption within our operations and the 1 excluding Russell Stover 2 including Russell Stover, index adjusted to 2015 = 100%. 2 including Russell Stover, Index adjusted to 2015 = 100% Emission factors for Russell Stover are based on estimates amount of waste water generated. Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. of the US Energy Information Administration. Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. We use water as a heat exchange fluid throughout the production process, for cleaning molds, for hand washing, and natural gas a year. Currently, renewable energies account for sanitary facilities. We are committed to reducing water Waste and recycling for 80% of Caffarel’s total energy use. The idea is to increase consumption per ton produced by an average of 2% a year this to 100% during 2018 (> see success stories, p. 36). over the coming years. We are committed to reducing waste All production facilities are aiming to reduce energy In recent years, Lindt & Sprüngli production companies and increasing the recycling rate within use further still. All the experience gained from local projhave reduced their water consumption significantly. Since our operations. ects is collated and shared with a view to circulating ideas 2008, water consumption per ton produced has declined and processes which have been proven to work. Examples by 54% (excluding Russell Stover). We have achieved this We are constantly striving to reduce the amount of mateof successful projects include the following: by eliminating open systems, installing closed-loop sysrial lost and continue optimizing our production process— Replacing old lighting with LEDs at the production fatems, and optimizing cold and hot water circuits. We cones. Raw and packaging materials are crucially important cility of Lindt & Sprüngli France in Oloron has made it tinuously impove our environmental impact when parts to the quality of our products. Material waste and post-propossible to save 250 MWh a year, while the same meaof the production process are renewed. Throughout the cessing are significant factors in our impact on the envisure has enabled Lindt & Sprüngli US to save 340 MWh Lindt & Sprüngli Group, water consumption per ton proronment and also important elements in our cost structure. in Stratham. duced has fallen by 10% since 2015. Thus the set goal was Our operational optimization policy for our production — By replacing four old grinding machines with two largalso achieved in this aera. process is known as the “Lindt & Sprüngli Production Way” er, state-of-the-art units offering greater efficiency, (LPW), and this follows the principle of analyzing, elimiLindt & Sprüngli Switzerland in Kilchberg will be able nating, and avoiding losses. The first step in any robust loss to save 310 MWh a year in future. analysis – and for the purpose of defining priorities – is to classify waste by type and according to the process phase L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D involved. Based on this analysis, specialist teams look at Work culture Lindt & Sprüngli Group website for anyone who may be the causes of certain waste types and take measures to interested. ­reduce or eliminate waste in future. This calls for total We are committed to maintaining an open As early as the recruitment process, the core values of ­engagement from employees at production facilities. It also work culture characterized by respect, trust, the Credo and Business Code of Conduct feed into candirequires an undertaking from senior management to deand fairness. We promote teamwork and date assessment. The HR manager uses the Lindt & Sprüngploy the time and resources and instill a mindset geared facilitate communication and understanding li Competence Model during the process, which is based toward avoiding material losses right across the organizaon the ten criteria set out. These ten criteria are used to across all areas, business segments, and regions tion. measure candidates’ skills and abilities based on their proto create a company of people who support Special attention is paid to avoiding material losses. And fessional competencies, relevant experience, qualifications, this largely depends on improved process controls, visual each other for mutual success. We encourage, and the specific professional requirements of the job. A standardization of processes, and staff training at producrecognize, and reward individual innovation, standardized questionnaire is used to implement these tion plants. personal initiative, and people’s leadership criteria at all subsidiaries, with HR managers and line manLindt & Sprüngli’s Swiss production facility in Kilchberg skills throughout the organization. agers applying them accordingly during interviews. has so far been concentrating on reducing use of raw maIn addition to the two groupwide policies in the form terials. In 2017, waste was reduced by 70 tons and the of the Credo and the Business Code of Conduct, our subamount of material requiring post-processing (like shrink Our ▶CREDO and ▶Business Code of Conduct provide the sidiaries have additional local policies promoting things wrap, broken molds or aluminum etc.) by 150 tons. These basis for our work culture of respect, trust, and fairness. like equal opportunities or measures against sexual harasssuccessful measures will now be implemented at other We want to ensure that all members of the Board of Direcment. Moreover, online and in-house training courses are production facilities too. tors and management, as well as all line managers and offered on a regular basis. Our focus will extend to packaging material waste in employees, demonstrate an appropriate level of professionfuture. The first step here will involve a widespread data alism that reflects the company’s commitment to our core Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model gathering and analysis exercise. Based on the findings, we values as set out in the company’s Credo: premium qualiwill then be able to implement any waste reduction meaty, an engaged and qualified workforce, a focus on conLeads by sures during 2018/19. sumers and customers, environmental and social responexample Thinks and Delights In 2017, Ghirardelli’s production facility in San Leandro sibility, and long-term profitability. The principles outlined customers operates strategically (CA), USA, introduced recycling and waste avoidance in our Business Code of Conduct provide firm, uncompromeasures with a view to reducing the amount of its own mising standards that all employees are expected to implewaste sent to landfill. This made it possible to reduce plasment in their dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliFosters innovation Collaborates Shares effectively tic and metal waste by 15%, despite a 10% increase in proers, and the general public. passion duction in the year under review (compared with the preTo ensure coherent application, the Credo and the Busivious year). All companies in the USA belonging to ness Code of Conduct are explained to new employees Embraces Develops self and Ghirardelli, Lindt & Sprüngli USA, and Russell Stover work during onboarding days. Should they have any questions, change others closely together and exchange opinions on the best proall employees are also free to refer to them in local employComDrives for cesses for avoiding waste and recycling – in order to adopt ee handbooks or via the intranet. In a spirit of transparenresults municates effectively the most successful. cy and to reflect our obligations to the public, the Credo and the Business Code of Conduct are available on the L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Employee satisfaction and retention versely, psychological problems are one of the main causLindt & Sprüngli is the third most popular employer in es of illness and disability worldwide. With this pledge, We are committed to offering an attractive Switzerland Lindt & Sprüngli UK has committed itself to a culture of working environment and maintaining or openness, friendship, and support and to offering its emincreasing our already high levels of employee ployees certain training opportunities. For example, first engagement, satisfaction, and retention. aid courses are offered for mental health or courses for cognitive behavioral therapy, as well as practical assistance. Lindt & Sprüngli UK is also involved in World Mental In 2017, we comprehensively evaluated the results of the Health Week with a view to raising awareness of mental employee survey conducted in 2016, derived measures for health. improvement, and then started implementing these. ExLindt Australia devotes special attention to the issue of amples of follow-up initiatives included: flexible working hours arrangements. A culture of “give — Broadening and deepening of the Talent Management and take” ensures both employees’ and the employer's In 2017, Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland achieved third place in Program the ▶Randstad Employer Branding Award. The winners emerged needs are taken into account (▶ see success stories, p. 36). — Conversion of local office premises to reflect changing from the Randstad Employer Brand Research study, which work requirements is the world’s most comprehensive independent survey of its Employee development and training — Implementation of local training initiatives kind. Companies cannot apply to participate, but are — Improvement of the onboarding programs nominated by those surveyed. We want to ensure that all key positions are — Running global leadership training courses for senior staffed with qualified and motivated employees managers and that talented candidates are developed — Introduction of a reward and recognition program Work-life balance internally to fill these positions. — Hosting employee information events. We are committed to maintaining a healthy work-life balance and offering our employees In a rapidly changing world, we need the best-qualified support to cope with increasing work-related employees to ensure we are competitive. To attract and demands. retain high-performing employees, we place a lot of emphasis on further development and training. During 2017, important projects in this area included: The boundary between work and people’s free time is be— Talent management: We have introduced a global talent coming increasingly blurred, and finding the right work-life management process and are developing this on an onbalance is more and more important. Our local subsidiargoing basis. We have annual talent management diaies have addressed this issue with various initiatives. logues, performance appraisals, and a succession planLindt & Sprüngli UK, for example, has signed the “Time ning process. This is our way of enabling managers to to Change” employer pledge like other leading organizacoordinate a pool of talent and build appropriate detions. This pledge is concerned with mental health, which velopment plans that match employees’ needs with the plays an important part in employees’ well-being. Condemands of our business. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D — Employee development: We have focused on individual will also be used in 2018 when a learning management Free back training for employees during working hours development plans and applied our 70-20-10 model: 70% system is introduced. As part of the corporate health management strategy, practical experience, 20% feedback and team building, 10% Lindt & Sprüngli Germany launched pilot project of free back formal individual training programs. As regards individDiversity and equal opportunity training in 2017. Over four months, 100 employees had the opportunity to complete the free MedX training program during ual training programs, we offer, for example: working hours with the help of a special device. The comput— International trainee programs We are committed to offering equal opportunier-aided training program trains the back muscles without any — Support for continuous training and development ties, promoting diversity in terms of employstrain on joints or disks. Training is both efficient and easy. It — Life-long learning for continued employability can be done once a week for 10 minutes, and people can even ment, and supporting the development and wear their normal work clothes. The training also helps prevent — Increasing employee productivity promotion of all who meet the relevant requireproblems before they occur. Given the very positive verdict — Promoting individual skills ments. We do not tolerate any discrimination after the pilot phase, this free training will continue to be — Dual professional training offered. against employees or candidates on the grounds — Training for managers — International exchanges of gender, age, religion, political opinion, — Coaching and mentoring programs. union affiliation, disability, national or social origin, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or color, In 2017, Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland developed an internor any other relevant characteristic protected nal training catalog with special emphasis on developing under the law. personal competencies, working methods, health, and leadership qualities. Over 150 employees took advantage We are convinced that all people should be treated fairly of what was on offer. 90% of participants recommend the and do not tolerate discrimination. It is our policy and training courses to others. We also added to the internapractice therefore to ensure people enjoy equal employtional trainee programs in 2017 with a financial program ment opportunities (employees and candidates). We also for controllers and enhanced these in the international support and promote gender diversity. Around 60% of our marketing area. employees are women. We also aim for a diverse age split, The International Lindt & Sprüngli Academy, the prowhereby younger and older generations work well togethgram for our managers and talents, was further developed er and enrich each other. in collaboration with the ▶International Institute for Management Development (IMD) and run for the third time Age split already in June 2017. in % 2016 2017 In 2018, Lindt & Sprüngli will continue to invest in the <30 29.1 28.7 International Lindt & Sprüngli Academy and in local train30–39 21.6 21.7 ing programs. 40–49 21.5 20.9 During 2017, Lindt Australia introduced some short 50–59 21.1 21.7 60+ 6.7 7.0 educational videos on the subject of our newly implemented Talent Management Program system (TMP system). The videos have proved to be an efficient learning tool and L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 34 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Occpational health and safety ity standards for risk assessment higher than required by Corruption and anti-competitive behavior local laws and regulations. Homogeneous risk measureWe are committed to offering a healthy and ment enables us to identify common priorities at Group We are committed to not engaging in corrupsafe workplace. Our vision is to eliminate all level and multiply the impact on results by exchanging tion or anti-competitive behavior. accidents resulting in time off work. good practices. Lost-time accidents rate per 100,000 working hours We are committed to the principle of free competition and Our vision: zero lost-time accidents Freedom of association and collective bargaining at scrupulously comply with all applicable domestic and inLindt & Sprüngli Number of lost-time accidents/ 2008 = 100% Regular consultation and engagement with our employees and ternational antitrust and competition law. We condemn 100,000 working hours their representatives ensure due account is taken of both staff any form of bribery and corruption as well. 2.651 1001 and management expectations. This facilitates negotiations and We want to ensure that our employees demonstrate an implementation of operational changes. It goes without saying appropriate level of professionalism that reflects the comthat Lindt & Sprüngli respects employees’ rights and the freedom to form and join trade unions and conduct collective pany’s commitment to our core values as set out in the bargaining. company’s ▶CREDO and the ▶Business Code of Conduct, Lindt & Sprüngli organizes an annual two-day meeting – the which themselves set out what we expect from our employ0.2810.302 0.3110.232 131 111 131 European Works Council – where employees’ representatives ees. In 2016, an updated version of the Business Code of 0.301 from all Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries in the European Union N/A 2 N/A 2 N/A 2 N/A 2 and Switzerland are given the opportunity to exchange Conduct was adopted by the Board of Directors and im2008 2015 2016 2017 2008 2015 2016 2017 opinions with each other and with management. The agenda plemented locally across all subsidiaries in 2017. This fur1 excluding Russell Stover and the documents for consideration are agreed in advance ther emphasizes our commitment to complying with the 2 including Russell Stover between the chair of the European Works Council and the Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. core values of Lindt & Sprüngli and with international management. In 2017, the main focus, for information and consultation purposes, was on health and safety, training, standards. The new Business Code of Conduct incorpoeconomic and financial developments, investments, and rates various principles. These encapsulate what we underImproving safety in the workplace is a top priority for sustainability. stand by generally acceptable conduct – as applicable to all Lindt & Sprüngli. Our indicators reveal a positive trend in Currently, Lindt & Sprüngli employees are collectively jurisdictions. The main changes in the updated version organized in Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and this area. Nevertheless, we continue to work tirelessly tothe USA (Ghirardelli). included a tightening of provisions relating to insider tradward avoiding all accidents in the workplace. We follow a ing and competition law, a new provision on bribery and prevention-based safety model and build upon a safety corruption, and practical guidance for employees in each culture that encompasses the following core concepts: zero section. The Business Code of Conduct is available in elevtolerance of unsafe behavior and critical risks, open comen languages. munication, and elimination of unsafe situations and “near In 2018, training courses in competition law will again accident”. be run by the Group Legal & IP Department and by exterSince 2008, Lindt & Sprüngli production companies nal legal experts to consolidate our employees’ awareness reduced the number of lost-time accidents rate per 100,000 and understanding of our zero tolerance policy toward working hours by 87%. anti-competitive behavior. The Lindt & Sprüngli risk assessment protocol has been adopted in all production companies. We have set the qualL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Philanthropy We want others to benefit from our successful business and contribute to good causes with material assets, money, and time. We see our company as a “corporate citizen” and want to play our part in overcoming the problems society is currently facing. What we donate to the community in terms of money, material assets, and time is intended to promote development in the localities around the Group’s sites. Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries make numerous donations to organizations, associations, and social programs. Ghirardelli, for example, has been supporting the San Leandro Education Foundation since 2003 and has collected more than USD 945,000 over this period. An example of donations in the form of material assets is the long-standing collaboration with local organizations that provide poorer people with life’s essentials (e.g. Tischlein deck dich, Banco Alimentare, Feed the Children, Open Hand). Lindt & Sprüngli has also established the two charitable foundations known as the ▶Lindt Cocoa Foundation and the ▶Lindt Chocolate Competence Foundation. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 36 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Our success stories 2017 Lindt & Sprüngli USA Caffarel Lindt & Sprüngli Australia Lindt & Sprungli (Australia) Pty Ltd Human Resources – Sustainability November 2017 Formation of a “Green Team” to reduce Caffarel on the road to emission-free production “The Gift of Time” – inspirational HR policies environmental impact Since the start of 2017, Caffarel in Italy has been sourcing all its hot at Lindt & Sprüngli Australia Lindt & Sprüngli USA founded a “Green Team” in 2017 with a view to water requirements (4,000 MWh) from a biomass plant of Pralafera Inspiration through innovation and passion is an integral part of the promoting environmental awareness and recycling activities at the Energia only 500 m from the production site in Luserna San Giovanni. HR vision at Lindt & Sprüngli Australia. There is a program for concompany’s own site. The team, which includes people from various This was made possible by connecting up to the local district heating tinuous learning, and a lot of emphasis is placed on flexible working roles, has launched various recycling initiatives. The waste reduction network via a water/water substation. Since biomass is climate-neutral, hours. Besides part-time models, teleworking, job sharing, and many achieved in the fourth quarter of 2017 was 34% per ton of molded Caffarel now avoids over 800 tons of CO2 a year thanks to this investother employment models, Lindt & Sprüngli Australia has developed chocolate compared to 2016. The volume saved is an impressive 300 ment. In addition to the purchase of electricity from renewable sourca culture of “give and take” that addresses the different needs of emtons. During a collection campaign, the team also collected 160 kg of es district heating also enables Caffarel to cover 80% of its overall ployees and employer. Time is a valuable commodity, and employees recycling waste. This equates to 13,300 Lindor truffles or 1,600 Lindt energy needs with renewable energies. The goal of 100% should be at Lindt & Sprüngli Australia are only too aware of this. Inspired by Excellence bars. Lindt USA also participates in the recycling program achieved during 2018 by sourcing biogas as well. the motto “The Gift of Time”, various initiatives were launched with a of “Save that Staff ”. The material collected and recycled in 2017 view to giving employees more time. These include for example laun­(paper, cardboard and plastic waste) is equivalent to 14,300,000 kWh dry discounts and an extra day off for full-time employees’ birthdays. of energy or 15,000 trees that can be saved respectively protected. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 37 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 What our partners say In the area of sustainability, Lindt & Sprüngli relies on various partners and long-term, professional cooperation with them. Here as well as on pages 13 and 44, nine of our partners appreciate our sustainable activities. Marianne Martinet Head of Rurality Initiative Th e Fo r e s t Tr u s t ( T F T ) “After 3 years of collaboration with Lindt & Sprüngli, we are seeing positive changes with small-scale farmers in the field where local partners take stronger ownership of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program and, more importantly, are driven by the shared vision to make an impact on their cocoa supply chain.” Andrea and Alberto Merlo Owners and Executive Directors Pralafera Energia Sarl “The trust that the management of Caffarel has given us with the participation in our project was a great support for us in realizing the biomass power plant. We and all of our employees at Pralafera Energia are proud to be actively involved with our power plant in the achievement of Caffarel’s environmental sustainability goals.” Thomas M. Auer Fo o d S a f e t y P r o f e s s i o n a l AIB International “With our experience in the food and confectionary industry we are able to give Lindt & Sprüngli the ability to benchmark all their factories worldwide. We have insight into trends in the food industry and can provide continuous improvement potential by showing them Best Practices in the industry. The commitment to have the same auditor for all facilities gives a good comparability and an excellent knowledge transfer.” L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Sustainably consumed Lindt & Sprüngli is recognized worldwide as a leader in the market for premium-quality chocolate. Strict quality controls ensure that Lindt & Sprüngli products meet high standards. Lindt & Sprüngli has a great responsibility to customers and consumers. We live up to this responsibility by setting ourselves high standards in terms of food safety, correct product labeling, and focusing on consumers. We apply our quality standards along the entire value chain – from raw materials to the finished product. So our chocolate specialities only leave our factories when we are convinced they meet our quality standards and are in perfect condition. In collaboration with our partners, we are continuously working on innovations in the areas of research and development and both packaging and logistics. This helps us ensure our products retain their high quality until they reach the end consumer. All measures are continuously reviewed and improved so our consumers can be confident of enjoying the products. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 39 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D And with a comprehensive approach to quality manageduction of a standardized food safety management system Enjoying chocolate with plant-based sweeteners ment, which comprises thorough internal and external with the aim of achieving FSSC-22000 certification by the There is a growing trend for sugar-free products. Our US subsidiary Russell Stover is already the biggest producer of checks, we ensure our products are of a high quality. The end of 2019. sugar-free chocolate in the USA. At the “Sweets & Snacks production process is divided into several stages for this We also focus on the transport and storage of our prodExpo 2017” in Chicago during the fall of 2017, Russell reason, each with quality standards which a product must ucts until they are delivered to our customers (represenStover unveiled a chocolate invention sweetened with a satisfy in order to move on to the next stage. The high tatives and dealers) to ensure our chocolate is in perfect plant-based sugar substitute (Stevia) as opposed to artificial quality requirements for our raw materials are set out in condition. We pay particular attention to the ambient temsweetener. The products hardly taste any different to traditional chocolate and meet the needs of consumers writing in our product specifications, and we review these. perature and moisture levels that need to be observed looking to avoid or reduce sugar in their diet (as an Our most important raw materials, i.e. our high-quality during transport and storage. These are specified in the ingredient or on its own). The new product innovations from cocoa beans, come from the world’s most renowned farm“Lindt Quality Guidelines”. Temperature is controlled by Russell Stover are available in US retail outlets from 2017. ing regions such as Ghana, Latin America (mainly Ecuaa strict monitoring process within our intercompany netdor), the Caribbean, Madagascar, and Papua New Guinea work – from our production facilities to the final distribu(> see the chapter Sustainably sourced, p. 14). By contrast, tion warehouse. Moisture levels are monitored at all wareLindt & Sprüngli sources raw materials such as milk or houses and selected sea freight companies who cross the In order to retain this trust in future, we concentrated on sugar locally wherever possible, i.e. from the areas around equator. These guidelines apply to all our own or rented the following issues during 2017: its production facilities. warehouses, as well as those of our representatives and — We further optimized our quality control processes in dealers for finished products. order to achieve our high goals though independent audits During processing, we ensure each production step is exof food safety and quality management. ecuted with precision. Before a product is dispatched, we — During 2017, we answered over 106,800 consumer incheck whether it satisfies our high standards and is in perCadmium levels in Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate All soil naturally contains cadmium. Cocoa trees take up quiries individually and ensured consumer feedback fect condition. Only then will the chocolate product leave cadmium from the soil accordingly – as do other plants continues to feed into our internal processes. This kind our production facility and enter the sales channels. such as cereals or vegetables. This is why our products of direct contact helps us keep product quality and cusThe Lindt & Sprüngli production facilities are crucial to may contain traces of cadmium. But eaten in such small tomer satisfaction levels high. our ability to manufacture first-class chocolate specialities. quantities, they present no harm at all to health. An This is why Lindt & Sprüngli implements strict standards analysis of the cadmium content of cocoa beans forms an Product quality and safety and conducts regular audits at these facilities in particular. integral part of the quality control for our sourcing process. And the cocoa mass produced from cocoa beans All factories are subject to unannounced annual audits by and used for our products is also regularly checked for We are committed to adopting first-class ▶AIB International. This independent organization has a traces of cadmium. The limit values for cadmium content measures to ensure product quality and safety. long-standing reputation for improving food safety in the are set out in our product specifications, and the strict industry through its standards and audits. observance of the limits is checked on a regular basis. In addition to AIB audits, both food safety and quality Lindt & Sprüngli complies with all applicable regulations and recommendations, such as those in the ▶Codex For Lindt & Sprüngli, high product quality and safety are management systems are deployed at our production faAlimentarius. a question of consistency and brand awareness. As the cilities. Russell Stover is currently working on the intromanufacturer of some of the most exquisite chocolates in the world, we accept no compromise when it comes to quality and safety. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D Customer and consumer satisfaction Additionally, we have set up an online forum to gather efficient consumer and customer service, we have introfeedback from the retail network. We use the collected duced a management process designed to further optimize Customer and consumer satisfaction is the findings from this central source to increase customer sataverage processing and response times. main goal of everything we do. Consumer isfaction even further. complaints, inquiries, and compliments are Consumer information answered promptly and individually. Consumers can also address any concerns they may have to our consumer service directly. During 2017, over We are committed to high standards in terms of 106,800 contacts/concerns were recorded in our system consumer information. The key to our success is customer and consumer satisfacacross the Group. These were processed or answered by tion, and this will always be the case. To meet our consumour consumer service specialists. Specific issues relating to Consumers purchase chocolate according to their individers’ expectations whenever possible, we continuously ansustainability, such as farming conditions for cocoa or ual desires and needs. And product choice is informed by alyze their needs and expectations. The resulting findings health-related questions, are picked up on separately and a number of things, including the cocoa percentage or the feed into our high-quality products and help us bring indiscussed internally on a regular basis. By 2017, the conlist of ingredients (which also contains information on novative new products to the market on a regular basis. sumer service had about 940 inquiries in the area of susallergens). Transparent communication and product labelAnd we make sure these deliver the high quality people tainability. This is less than 1% of all requests. All other ing are therefore very important to Lindt & Sprüngli. associate with Lindt & Sprüngli. Consumer tests in various inquiries concern individual products, the mix of ingrediWe are aware of our responsibility to inform consumers countries are a useful tool in this regard. General satisfacents, or the product quality. about even small concentrations of potential allergens such tion levels with our brands and products are measured each In order to find out how satisfied consumers are with as hazelnuts or almonds via the list of ingredients or the year – including 2017 – among over 17,400 consumers in the consumer service and what should be improved, Lindt allergen details we provide. Lindt & Sprüngli includes a 17 countries. The results in terms of chocolate quality and & Sprüngli France conducted its first satisfaction survey in clear warning on all products to inform its consumers the taste experience are consistently outstanding. 2017 (▶ see success stories, p. 42). Lindt & Sprüngli Interabout traces of certain allergens they may contain. We also In addition to consumer tests, we also continuously national also ran a smaller test survey among consumers follow strict process requirements in order to avoid unwelobserve and track global trends in terms of diet, chocolate who had got in touch with the consumer service departcome contamination of our products. consumption, and sustainability issues with a view to idenment about sustainability issues. Guidelines for future lotifying opportunities for our products, as well as possible cal surveys, which take due account of applicable data A balanced diet is crucial for consumer health. We recomproblems. We regularly exchange this information with protection provisions, were defined on the basis of this. mend eating small respectively reasonable amounts of our subsidiaries. All Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries monitor Various subsidiaries are interested in surveying how satischocolate as a treat. Nutritional values are displayed on the local developments and needs, in addition to these global fied consumers are with the service they receive over the packaging of all Lindt & Sprüngli products in accordance trends, when creating new products. course of the next year. with national and international legislation. We promote Consumers can also get in touch via the feedback form transparency with online information regarding contents Another source of valuable information is our own retail in our packaging. And we are in direct contact with our and nutritional values. network, which brings us into daily contact with our cusconsumers on a daily basis via over 60 social media chanLindt & Sprüngli realizes that consumers are paying tomers. Our sales people in more than 410 own shops nels, providing individual answers to the inquiries and more attention to sustainability information when chooscontinuously pick up on their needs and expectations. feedback we receive. In order to ensure a professional and L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 41 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D ing products. In order to inform them of our sustainabilLindt & Sprüngli position on GMO ity initiatives, our products show the logo for the Lindt & Sprüngli is not involved in any research or ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program on the back of the development associated with genetically modified food. packaging. We also integrated the Lindt & Sprüngli FarmWe do not use ingredients that have been genetically ing Program into our communication about Lindt Differmodified or are derived from genetically modified ence – which is our way of highlighting what makes Lindt organisms (GMO) if non-GMO raw materials are available. All Lindt, Caffarel, Küfferle, and Hofbauer branded chocolate so unique. In 2017, we incorporated communiproducts are non-GMO. Regular tests are performed to cation about Lindt Difference into a number of stores and monitor these products and ensure compliance with on certain packaging. Starting in Canada, the plan for 2018 relevant EU and Swiss regulations. Ghirardelli and Russell is to display consumer-oriented information about this on Stover have also introduced measures to ensure all their the lindt.com website too. This would then be extended products are free from genetically modified ingredients in future. Both brands already offer GMO-free products. internationally over the course of the year. Ghirardelli and Russell Stover aim to make their entire product range GMO-free and bring this to market by 2019. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 42 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Our success stories 2017 Lindt & Sprüngli France Lindt & Sprüngli Group Lindt & Sprüngli South Africa Satisfaction survey at the consumer service The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Raising the profile of animal protection department in France from a consumer perspective in South Africa with the Lindt RHINO To find out how satisfied our consumers are with our consumer service During 2016/2017, Martin Pömsl supported school projects in Ghana The leading tour company Rhino Africa and our South African suband identify potential areas for improvement, our Lindt & Sprüngli for twelve months as a volunteer with a non-governmental organizasidiary of Lindt & Sprüngli have formed a partnership to raise the subsidiary in France conducted a satisfaction survey. 400 consumers tion. Given the challenges associated with the cocoa supply chain, he profile of protection work involving endangered species of animals. were sent a questionnaire some three to four weeks after having some wondered whether Lindt chocolate could be eaten with a clear conThe southern part of Africa is home to over 90% of Africa’s rhinocerform of contact with consumer service. With a response rate of 40%, science. With him staying in Ghana, he had the opportunity to be the oses. These are threatened with extinction. With a view to raising the survey generated a lot of feedback. The consumers contacted anfirst consumer to visit the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. Togethawareness, Lindt Master Chocolatiers in Cape Town are making milk swered the questions asked and were particularly positive about qualer with other volunteers, he experienced the program on the ground chocolate rhinoceroses by hand and selling them as a limited edition ity and the image of the brand. We also found out where action needs during a two-day visit. They accompanied people from our local product at ten Lindt boutiques across South Africa. And those enjoyto be taken and where consumer service can be improved. It was made sourcing company in their activities to support cocoa farmers. These ing this chocolate will be pleased to know that ten South African rand clear that the survey was not for marketing purposes but could only included the Farmer Business School, the Village Resource Center, the are being donated to the Wildlife Act organization to promote protecbe used to improve consumer service. The same applies to all surveys Farm Shop, and the monthly Farmers Meeting. Following the extensive tion of endangered rhinoceroses in South Africa. of this type – including any future ones. tour and having had a chance to speak with people in the locality, Martin Pömsl feels the short answer to whether people can enjoy Lindt chocolate with a clear conscience is a definite “yes” ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program blog entry. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 43 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Outlook Sustainably sourced Sustainably produced Sustainably consumed Again in 2018, we want to further expand our Lindt We will continue with the integration of Russell Stover In 2018, we will continue to work toward ensuring the & Sprüngli Farming Program for the sourcing of raw maduring 2018. Our focus will remain on initiating new enremaining products of Ghirardelli and Russell Stover are terials. 2018 will see us further promote autonomy among ergy-saving and water-saving projects. We will also introalso GMO-free by 2019. farmers’ groups in Ghana. Together, we will work on soluduce a structured approach to sharing details of enerOur current quality assurance approach will continue tions to diversify farmers’ income and facilitate a more gy-saving and water-saving projects already delivery or to be applied consistently. This allows us to keep the numintensive form of agriculture. In Ecuador and Madagascar, planned via our engineering manager’s network. Our inber of consumer complaints low. Where necessary, howwe are looking to increase the number of farmers particitention here is to step up the exchange of experiences withever, we will extend specific quality and food safety propating and further expand the elements of the program in the Lindt & Sprüngli Group, to promote tried-and-testgrams across the whole supply chain. with a focus on environmental issues. Based on the suced practices, and assess the environmental impact of We are providing interactive and consumer-friendly cessful pilot projects for cocoa butter in 2017, we will be projects already delivered. access to information on the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming launching an additional project in 2018 and increasing the We are building upon an enhanced network of IndusProgram through the ▶www.farming-program.com microvolume of cocoa butter made with beans from sustainabiltrial Performance Managers, who are successfully driving site launched in 2017. This site will be further developed ity programs to 20%. By 2019, we want to source 100% of reductions in production losses with the Lindt & Sprüngli in 2018 and updated with new and relevant information. whole and unprocessed hazelnuts, which we purchase in Production Way Program (LPW). Our LPW tool kit – a The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program is also covered in Turkey, from sustainability programs and thereby achieve kind of software for exchanging knowledge – serves as a communication relating to Lindt Difference. In 2018, cona further milestone in the sustainable procurement of raw platform for exchanging tried-and-tested practices and sumer-oriented information relating to this will now be materials. helps accelerate implementation. The spread of knowledge included on the lindt.com website too – first in Canada Another aim is to keep increasing the use of palm oil is the catalyst for building an organization that keeps on and then in other national markets. certified according to the RSPO segregation model. learning. As regards our packaging materials, Lindt & Sprüngli We will further broaden the development opportunities will continue to work on various sustainability issues with available to our employees and be even more focused in suppliers. This will mean spending more time looking at promoting the development of up-and-coming talent. We the value chain – predominantly from a holistic perspective will also look to implement further suggestions from the – from the raw ingredients through to the finished packemployee survey. aging. The Supplier Sustainable Practice Program will continue in greater depth in 2018 and look at the procurement of decorative packaging from production facilities in Asia. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 44 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 What our partners say In the area of sustainability, Lindt & Sprüngli relies on various partners and long-term, professional cooperation with them. Here as well as on pages 13 and 37, nine of our partners appreciate our sustainable activities. Christian Florin CEO F l o r i n g AG “With the Lindt Cocoa Foundation and Lindt & Sprüngli, we have established a project for sustainable coconut oil from the Solomon Islands which is both unique and exemplary in its own way. With this project, Lindt & Sprüngli is clearly showing its desire to commit itself to sustainability at the very place where raw materials originate. And in doing so, it is sharing with us the responsibility for procuring traceable and fairly produced coconut oil. Ideally, we believe sustainability projects should practice what they preach and also reflect what is economically viable – from the farm through to the consumer.” Monique Becker Tr a i n e r MedX “It is great that Lindt & Sprüngli Germany is offering its employees the chance to take this free back training. Back problems are some of the most common complaints people suffer from. Those taking part in the training say they are able to perform better both at work and in their free time due to a significant improvement in their problems. The take-up rate is very high, given the noticeable changes and the fact the 10-minute therapy unit can be completed during working hours. The fluctuation rate after six months is below 5%, which is very pleasing.” Adriana Arciniegas Leal R e s e a r c h S p e c i a l i s t a t A g r i c u l t u r e , L i v e s t o c k a n d A g r o f o r e s t r y P r o g r a m ( P R AG A ) Tr o p i c a l A g r i c u l t u r a l R e s e a r c h a n d H i g h e r E d u c a t i o n C e n t e r ( C a t i e ) “The work developed with Lindt & Sprüngli will permit to acquire the knowledge of the cacao genetic diversity, which is the source of novel aromas and tastes. This can lead to benefits for the entire production chain, such as greater earnings for producing families and a more diverse and sustainable supply of cocoas for specialty quality markets.” L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 45 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Sustainability governance At Lindt & Sprüngli, all issues relating to sustainability are dealt with by the highest level of management, and a committee appointed by the Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring this area. This shows how seriously we take the importance of acting responsibly. The Sustainability Committee consists of three members Lindt & Sprüngli sustainability governance of the Board of Directors. It supports the Board of Directors in setting the strategic direction for company activities, while aiming for comprehensive sustainable management. Lindt & Sprüngli Group The Committee is responsible for developing and adapting all internationally applicable corporate policies in this area and for monitoring compliance with legal aspects. The Sustainability Committee of the Board Committee meets as often as required, but at least once a year. The Group Management makes sure the strategic decisions are implemented. Sustainability Management coordinates all sustainability activities at Lindt & Sprüngli and Sustainability Executive Team supports the Sustainability Executive Team (which has representatives from HR, Marketing, Legal, Research & DevelGroup Management opment/Quality Assurance, and Corporate Communications) with delivery of sustainability goals. The Sustainability Executive Team meets every two to Sustainability Management three months and is also responsible for Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries. It ensures things are implemented at a local level based on the policies of Lindt & Sprüngli International. Each Lindt & Sprüngli Group company has one sustainabilHR Marketing Legal R&D/QA Operations Corp. Comm. ity representative to ensure end-to-end communication between the Group and the respective subsidiary. In addition, each subsidiary appoints a person responsible for health and safety management and another for environmental management. Subsidiaries L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 46 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 About this report This Sustainability Report is Lindt & Sprüngli’s eighth progress report in relation to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the six UN Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (FAB). This Sustainability Report provides the various stakeholdThe ten principles of the UN Global Compact Relevant company Report reference ers with information about the goals Lindt & Sprüngli has guidelines set itself, any measures introduced, and the progress 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Credo pp. 9–12, 14–25, 31, 34 human rights. Lindt & Sprüngli Promise achieved. It covers the period from January 1, 2017 to De2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Business Code of Conduct cember 31, 2017. Unless otherwise stated, all facts and Health & Safety Policy figures are correct as of December 31, 2017 and relate to Supplier Code of Conduct the Lindt, Ghirardelli, Stover, Whitman’s, Pangburn’s, Caf3. Uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the right to Credo pp. 9–12, 14-25, 31, 33–34 farel, Hofbauer, and Küfferle brands of the Lindt & Sprüngcollective bargaining. Lindt & Sprüngli Promise li Group. The facts and figures also relate to all production, 4. E limination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Business Code of Conduct 5. Effective abolition of child labor. Health & Safety Policy distribution, and marketing sites, as well as regional 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Supplier Code of Conduct Lindt & Sprüngli offices. This Report was drafted with due regard to the princi7. S upport a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Credo pp. 14–25, 29–31 ple of materiality in terms of the issues addressed and the 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Lindt & Sprüngli Promise expectations of the various stakeholders. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Policy technologies. Supplier Code of Conduct Date of publication 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Business Code of Conduct p. 34 German and English version: March 2018 Supplier Code of Conduct The expectations expressed in this Sustainability Report Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (FAB) Report reference are based on assumptions. Actual results may vary from Aim for food security, health, and nutrition. pp. 14–25 these. The German version of the Report is the authoritaBe environmentally responsible. pp. 14–25 tive version. Ensure economic viability and share value. pp. 14–25 For reasons of the legibility the male form was mainly chosen in the Respect human rights, create decent work, and help communities to thrive. pp. 14–25 text, the information refers nevertheless to members of both genders. Encourage good governance and accountability. pp. 9–12, 34, 45 Promote access and transfer of knowledge, skills, and technology pp. 14–25 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 CHOCOLADEFABRIKEN LINDT & SPRÜNGLI AG Seestrasse 204 | CH-8802 Kilchberg Switzerland www.lindt-spruengli.com/sustainability L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845
