CS GARMENT, CS INC. we make shirts. Cavite Economic Zone, 4106 Rosario, Cavite, Philippines Tel.: + 63 46 4370417-19 19 Fax: + 63 46 4370421 E-mail: info@csgarment.com Website: www.csgarment.com 1 ABOUT THE COMPANY CS Garment, Inc. manufactures high end quality men’s woven shirts for export and has been in existence for more than two decades (27 years). years) Founded in 1989 by Mr. Claus Sudhoff , together with his partner Mrs. Concisa Atutubo Sudhoff, and became fully operational in 1990 ISO9001:2008 certified. (Became the first garment firm in Southeast Asia to be ISO 9002 Certified in 1995) SA8000:2008 certified since December 2011. Company subscribed to the principles of United Nation’s Global Compact (UNGC) since June 2002 and engaged as Participant on February 2018 MESSAGE I am pleased to confirm that CS Garment, Inc. will continuously support and commit to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights,Rights Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption Corruption. We are also committed to share this advocacy with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Claus Sudhoff President and CEO 2 Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of o internationally proclaimed Human Rights. SA 8000 (Social Accountability) CERTIFICATION o CS Garment, Inc. (CSGI) has very high respect for human rights and aligned its policies and programs with the principles of UN Global Compact. Aside from the UN Global Compact and Code of Conduct, CSGI add more value to its social advocacy thru a social audit called SA8000 (Social Accountability) o CSGI received its SA8000:2008 Certification since 27 December 2011, upon the audit conducted by TUV Rheinland on the following principles: 1. Child Labor – CSGI does not engage in or support the use of child labor; young workers may only work 8 hours per day and not to be assigned in night shift. 2. Forced and Compulsory Labor – CSGI does not engage in or support the use of forced or compulsory labor, no withholding of salary, property or documents and does not engage in human trafficking. 3. Health and Safety – CSGI provides safe and healthy workplace; conduct regular health and safety instructions; establish a system to detect, avoid or respond to potential threats; provide appropriate personal protective equipment; assess the risk to new and expectant mothers; and provide access to clean toilet facilities and potable water. 4. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining – CSGI respects the personnel right to form trade unions; workers right to elect their own representative; and no discrimination of worker representative. 5. Discrimination – no discrimination in hiring, promotion, etc.; no interference in the exercise of personnel rights, no threatening, abusive, exploitative behavior; and no pregnancy or virginity test. 6. Disciplinary Practices No corporal punishment, mental, physical or verbal abuse. 7. Working Hours – CSGI complies with applicable laws and industry standards, normal work hour per week not exceeding 48 hours; provision of 1 day off after every six days of work; voluntary overtime and not exceeding 12 hours per week. 8. Remuneration compensation is at least equal to legal or industry minimum level; overtime premium based on national law; no deduction from wages for disciplinary purposes; detailed pay slip and convenience in claiming salary; and no labour only contracting, short term contract or false apprenticeship. 9. Management Systems – regular management review; procedure for selection of supplier/sub-supplier supplier and supplier/sub-supplier supplier/sub commitment and compliance with SA8000 requirement; identify root cause for non-conformance; non access for verification; etc. On 21 June 2016, CSGI passed the SA8000:2008 3rd Surveillance audit. 3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES (CSR) ACTIVITIES Dual Training System (DTS) CS Garment, Inc. through the DTS Program is committed to uplift the youth as well as the world of garment industry. Trainees will be trained on general theories of garment manufacturing and its actual manufacturing processes. This training will also be a way to prevent social cancer like: juvenile delinquency, violence and drug addiction o In 2016, five (5) trainees successfully completed the company’s Dual Training System (DTS) Program in partnership with the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) Department of Education K to 12 Program o With the passage of the Enhanced Basic Education Act of 2013 or Republic Act 10533, the DepED was tasked to implement the K to 12 Program, essentially adding two (2) years of specialization within the Basic Education System, with the major objective of ensuring that graduates of basic education are ready for employment, entrepreneurship and higher learning o CSGI partnered thru MOA signing with two schools (Tanza ( National Trade School and Amaya School of Home Industries) in the community for the Work Immersion of the senior high school students starting the school year 2016-2017 2016 o On 11 October 2017, the twenty-two two (22) senior high school Dressmaking and Tailoring students of the Tanza National Trade School successfully completed their 240 hours work immersion in our Company o Whereas, with the Amaya School of Home Industries, fourteen (14) Fashion Design senior high scholl students successfully finished their 400 hours of work immersion last 09 February 2018. o We provided these students a minimal daily allowance to cover their transportation JobStart Philippines Program o This is a partnership initiative by the Philippine Department of Labor and Employment , Asian Development Bank, and the Government of Canada and Public Employment Service Office (PESO) of Local Government Units o In 20 February 2017 CSGI re-enteredentered into agreement for the fourth (4th) Batch of the Jobstart Philippines Program. o With this partnership with JobStart we will be able to extend our help to a more underprivileged youth by providing them technical and on the job trainings. The additional skills they will learn will help them find good jobs in the future. o Successful uccessful trainees are given permanent appointment with the company. Compliance with General Labor Standards o CSGI was awarded by the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) the Certificate of Compliance on 14 July 2016 o This certificate is issued on the condition that all Labor Code provisions now adopted, or shall hereafter be adopted and shall continue to be complied with. 4 CONTINUOUS ADVOCACY OF FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM IN THE WORKPLACE Since 1995 up to present, CS Garment, Inc. has implemented the family welfare program in the workplace. The initiative has earned several appreciation and recognition from government and nonnon government agencies and became the benchmark of other companies. Responsible Parenthood o Proper birth spacing of the children to give the mother enough time to recuperate. o It does not prevent a couple from having many children, it only encourages them to make sure they are ready to have a child to be able to provide him/her with a bright future. o The program also teaches our employees to be responsible parents by giving/spending quality time with their children. o Contraceptives like pills and condoms are freely given to employees. o The Clinic staff continue to provide information and education regarding the family planning/welfare program thru meetings & seminars. o The company physician and nurse are regularly monitoring the program to ensure that employees and their families are in good health and condition. Employees practicing family planning/welfare program are more productive, healthy and with happy outlook in life. Maternal Care o As part of the Family Welfare Program, pregnant employees are taken care of. Thus, they are not assigned to heavy work loads and prolong standing work position. o Risk assessment is also conducted to identify potential hazard to pregnant employees o Counseling by company doctor and/or nurse. Paternal Leave o Male employees whose spouse/partners gave birth are given seven (7) days paid leaves when their wife gives birth as mandated by law. Breastfeeding Policy o CS Garment, Inc. has a lactation room to enable breastfeeding mothers to breastfeed their babies while at work. Facility includes clean, private area with table and comfortable chair, hand washing facilities, safe container for milk and refrigerator. Magna Carta of Women o CS Garment, Inc. has always been in compliance with the rule of the Department of Labor especially Section 21 (B) of the implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act 9710, otherwise known as “Magna Carta of Women”. o Any female employee who has undergone surgery caused by gynecological disorders shall be given a leave entitlement of two (2) months with full pay based on her gross monthly compensation. 5 Drug Free Workplace o The company has formulated a comprehensive drug abuse prevention program that will prevent and control alcohol and drug abuse in the workplace. Seminar was attended by all employees and random drug testing was conducted by an accredited Drug Testing Company. A procedure to test employee was also written in the Drug Free Workplace Policy. Initially, random selection of 20% of employees had been tested and all with negative results. Nobody has been found positive in the random drug testing conducted since 2008 o Any employee who voluntarily request assistance of the company in dealing with drugs or alcohol problem may do so without jeopardizing their continued employment, provided they strictly adhere to the terms of their treatment and counseling. Policy on Hepatitis B o As part of the company’s effort to promote decent work in the workplace, CSGI has established a policy and Program on Hepatitis B, which aims to protect its human resources against the risk of transmission of Hepatitis B and to eliminate discrimination in hiring, job assignment or promotion of those employees and applicants who are infected. Policy on HIV / AIDS o In compliance with Republic Act 8504 known as (The Philippine Aids Prevention and Control Act of 1998), CSGI has developed a policy for HIV/ AIDS that ensures provision and sustainable implementation of HIV/ AIDS Program in the workplace. o CS Garment Inc., consider its multi skilled and loyal workforce as its assets, thus the company wants to protect them against health debilitating illnesses. It believes that, through the HIV/AIDS policy the employee’s dignity and self-self esteem shall be protected at all times. CSGI shall ensure the pro-active active campaign in the workplace that extends to their families, relatives and communities. In order, to achieve this goal the company shall provide an accessible information, resources and support by creating an understanding, caring and nonnon discriminatory workplace environment. o CSGI has specific provisions like proper education/training and heightening awareness regarding the risk factors, mode of transmission and prevention related in HIV/AIDS thru echo seminar. We also provide training of key persons that includes Health Personnel, Supervisor, LMC Committee Representative, Family Welfare Educators, and Managers. Clinic Personnel conduct lectures and counseling on HIV/AIDS in a nonnon discriminatory and nonmalicious way. o Since CS Garment, Inc. has Family Welfare Program, we have available oral contraceptive pills and condoms in the Clinic, provided freely to married employees. The company doctor provided an accurate demonstration and discussion of advantages and benefits they could get in the prevention of spread of HIV/AIDS. In the 25 years of CS Garment, Inc., we have no record of anyone diagnosed to have HIV/ AIDS. Blood Letting with Philippine Red Cross (PRC) o To help save lives, CSGI supports the blood letting activity conducted by the PRC. Employees who are willing to donate and give a gift of life are enlisted to participate in this activity. Latest blood letting activity was conducted last 28 February 2018. 2018 6 PROMOTION OF SAFETY AND HEALTH IN THE WORKPLACE User Friendly Machinery and Equipment o Sewing machine work height are adjustable and with automatic thread trimming and light foot lifting for the comfort of the user. o Special machines like buttonhole, button attach, and embroidery are easy to operate since they are all automated. It also applies to the automatic spreading machine with fabric cutting that is programmable to the required length of the markers. o All machine have safety devices like emergency stop button switches, eye protector, needle guard, and pulley guards which protect moving and powered machine components. It has safety signs and markings to protect the user from accident. o Machine lubrication is non-flammable, flammable, combustible and not hazardous. Annual Work Environment Measurement (WEM) o WEM is conducted to ensure that the level of dust, noise, illumination and general ventilation in the workplace is within industry standard parameters and does not pose a threat to the health and safety of all concerned. o Latest WEM conducted last 1 December 2016 with passed results. Emergency Response o To promote awareness and ensure the protection of the lives of its employees, CSGI conducts fire safety training, hot drill and evacuation exercises at least twice a year in coordination with the PEZA EHSD Fire Department. o CSGI have also organized an Emergency Response Team which are assigned in different activities in case of emergency such as fire fighting and rescue, evacuation, salvage and recovery, first aid and security. Occupational Safety and Health Standard (OSHS) o CSGI obtained the Certificate of Compliance on 14 July 2016 as given by the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) o This certificate is issued on the condition that all Labor Code provisions now adopted, or shall hereafter be adopted and shall continue to be complied with. 7 Principle 2. Business should make sure they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Progressive Management o Humane treatment to employees is an important tool of CS Garment, Inc. to ensure harmony and cooperation in the workplace. Management team is aware that the employees are not only gifted with reasons and intelligence but at the same time, they are endowed with compassion. We, in CS Garment, Inc. upholds harmonious industrial relations and promotes true care and concern for each other. This is evident in the company’s record for the past 20 years having zero incident or zero case of complaints of maltreatment, fights or exchange of blows amongst its employees, middlemanagement and the top management. o Handling issues in the workplace is a responsibility of all levels of management. Ideal way to handle complaints is to prevent things from happening especially the one that give rise to the problem or issue. Company allows the involvement of employees to cooperate and partake in problem-solving solving and not to become part of the problem. Regular meetings are conducted where important concerns and details are noted for management action. Suggestion Box o Suggestion or complaint box provides a confidential means for all employees to report non conformance with company policy or standards to the management and/or workers representative. This device is also used as a way to address employee concerns, if face to face/ oral communication is not possible/available in certain conditions and for any other reason. SA 8000 Compliance Audits o Social audits are conducted by independent external auditors which includes individual and group interview of worker’s to monitor compliance. Committee on Decorum and Investigation (CODI) o In response to Rep. Act 7877known as Anti-Sexual Anti Harassment Act of 1005, the Company organized a Committee On Decorum and Investigation (CODI) which focuses on Sexual Harassment and Violence against Women. o The committee is created to maintain sound work environment free of sexual harassment and all forms of sexual intimidation and exploitation. exploitation In keeping with these commitment, the top management in cooperation of those in the supervisory level, committee members and rank and file employees are bound to help in the prevention of sexual harassment and any form of intimidations and exploitations. o CODI function is to receive complaints, conduct further investigation and submit corresponding recommendations for submission to Advisory Board subject for appropriate action. There were no incident of complaint regarding violation of this article 7877 from year 2008 up to present 8 Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Right to Collective Bargaining. Labor-Management Council The Company respects the right of all personnel to form, join, and organize responsible and matured employee organization of their choice. In the absence of trade union, our company has a Labor-Management Council (LMC) which enhances more the harmonious relationship between labor and management. Representatives of workers and any personnel engaged in organizing workers are not subjected to discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or retaliation for reason of their being a member of an organization. o Every two years, employees are conducting the voting of LMC Committee Officers. Every section and department has their own representative to thresh-out thresh the need of each and every employee. New officers were elected on 22 April 2017. o The committee has a fund wherein team members who are in financial need can borrow money where they have to pay it within a period of six (6) months. o SA8000 Workers Representative is elected from among the LMC committee members who also participates in workplace dialogue and management review. The presence of LMC encourages a collaborative behavior among various levels of the organization. The philosophy is that greater cooperation between labor and management on matters of mutual interest and concern will create a more satisfying and productive workplace. We can proudly say that the company’s LMC has been very cooperative and understanding through the years especially during the times of global financial crisis up to present. Principle 4. Elimination of all forms of Forced and Compulsory Labour. Company Policy (Recruitment and Hiring) o The company does not engage in or support the use of forced or compulsory labor as defined in ILO Convention 29. o The company does not withhold any part of the personnel’s salary, benefits, property, or documents in order to force such personnel to continue working in the company. o Personnel have the right to leave workplace premises after completing the standard workday and are free to terminate their employment, provided that they give reasonable notice. o The company does not engage in or support trafficking in human beings. o A committee composed of Personnel Manager and Department Heads annually review the Company Policy Manual. The committee members are very particular in compliance to the labor law, the content of the personnel policy manual is 100% compliant to the mandate of the government and the rules of the company itself. o Personnel Policy Manual defines the hours of work and rest days. Computation of basic pay, overtime, holiday pay etc. together with all the benefits and compensation were also checked and reviewed if correct. o New Government Rulings, Policy and Wage Decree are also discussed by the committee for immediate implementation, if needed. 9 Principle 5. Effective abolition of Child Labor. Child –friendly firm o CS Garment, Inc. already received three recognition as Child-friendly Child Firm. The company was cited as Child-friendly friendly firm due to various programs for the benefits of the children not only of its employees but also the children in the community. o We have joined advocacy like child-laborlabor free company, we have donated various goods and items for the children and also sponsored programs benefiting the street children in the community. Some of the child-friendly friendly activities are through the collaborative efforts of CSGI employees, management and the GO’s and NGO’s. Informative Materials / Awareness Tools o Informative materials regarding prohibition in the use of child-labor child are posted at designated areas of the factory. (e.g. posters from ILO that child must be taken care of and has the right to play). Posting of promotional materials visible to all confirms company commitment to combat child-labor. labor. The materials are visible not only to employees but also to the stakeholders and visitors who frequents the office. Remediation of Children o Inclusion of “Remediation of Children” clause in Administrative & Personnel Policies. The new policy states the company’s corrective action, if ever a “child” which fits the definition of a child is found working in the company. Principle 6. Elimination of Discrimination in employment and occupation. Provision of Equal Employment Opportunities (EEO) o CS Garment, Inc. has aligned its policies with SA8000 not to engage in, or support discrimination in hiring, remuneration, training, promotion, termination, etc. o Hiring was done on the basis of their skills and ability to do the job and other qualifications (e.g. educational attainment, work experience), rather than their personal characteristics such as sexual orientation, religion, gender, nationality, ethnic origin, political belief etc. This rule on discrimination is written in our Personnel Policy Manual # 001 under Recruitment and Hiring. o Company also hires physically challenged individual. individual They are given opportunity to work in the factory. We have gained their loyalty and it can be justified by their length of service with CSGI. One (1) deaf and mute applicant was accepted and hired by the company . o Consideration is also given to old employees and those who just recuperated from serious illness (e.g. cancer). o For vacant positions, preference is given to the present most qualified personnel either through promotion or lateral transfer rather than hiring new applicants. 10 Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to Environmental Challengeshallenges. Accreditation of Pollution Control Officer (PCO) o We have our duly accredited Pollution Control Officer who was certified by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources on 10 September 2015. Hazard and Risk Prevention o Occupational Safety and Heath Management and Work Environment (ERWM) in HIDA, Japan was attended by our PCO last June 27 to July 8, 2016 being the selected Filipino participant to represent the Philippines. o Construction Safety and Health Training (COSH) conducted on August 15-19, 2016 was attended by company’s PCO/representative representative staff. The training is also in preparation of his accreditation as Safety Officer of the company. o Regular inspection of building facilities in preparation for any calamities (e.g. flood, typhoon, earthquake, fire, etc.). o Earthquake drill is regularly conducted to raise awareness on what to do in case of an actual earthquake scenario to reduce, if not eliminate possible casualty. o Installation of fire alarm system with smoke detector and audible alarm/siren. o Fire Safety Training and Evacuation (Hot) Drill is conducted twice a year to educate everyone in fire prevention, extinguishment/use of fire fighting equipment and evacuation. o Hazard and risk assessment are also done to identify potential hazard, health or environmental risk so that appropriate corrective/preventive action could be done to correct the problem. Fun Run o CSGI joined the Cavite Economic Zone (CEZ) Fun Run on 26 November 2017 11 Principle 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote Environmental Responsibility esponsibility. Solid Waste Management o Reduction of scrap fabrics thru the use of CAD system in pattern/marker making. Other scrap fabrics are donated to garment schools who can reuse them in their sewing lessons o Recycle of scrap fabrics thru sewing/converting them into other usable items such as shorts, eco-friendly bags, pouches, pot-holder, holder, etc. o Reuse of Cartons and Boxes – as suggested by our VP/GM which was accepted by our buyers, they return back to CSGI the used boxes and cartons to be reused for their next orders. They are happy with the suggestion because they were able to help protect the environment and also save on cost. o Reuse of paper, cardboard, plastic polybags, polybags sacks, etc. o Proper segregation of residual waste according to its kind such as fabrics, papers, corrugated boards, plastics, wood, metal, etc. o Residual waste/scrap is disposed thru a Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) Accredited Waste Hauler who will further sort them either to be sold for recycling, or disposed at the Metro Clark dumpsite. Burning of garbage is strictly not allowed . o Hazardous wastes such as busted fluorescent lights/bulbs (which contains mercury) are treated by a PEZA accredited treaters/haulers /haulers before disposal while hazardous batteries (which contains lead and acid) is being donated to Bantay Kalikasan. Water Quality Management o Waste water are connected to a water treatment facility managed by Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) before it is disposed in the main bodies of water such as a river or ocean. Permit to Discharge to PEZA sewerage system was secured last 31 Janary 2018. o Water analysis such as Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), Oil and Grease, Total Suspended Solids, Total Coliform and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) are conducted twice a year (to ensure that waste water generated by the company is within acceptable level and not harmful to the environment. o Drinking water analysis is also conducted to ensure that water in the drinking fountain is safe to drink. o Waste water and drinking water test conducted last 17 Jan 2018 and 29 March 2017 yield “Passed” results. Coastal Cleaning and Tree Planting o CS Garment, Inc. actively participated in the yearly International Coastal Cleaning and Coral Reef-Reforestation/Tree Reforestation/Tree Planting activity held in different locations of the municipalities of Rosario and Gen. Trias, Cavite. The activity was chaired by the local municipality, supported by PEZA in collaboration with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). o Participated in the “River Cleanup” inside Cavite Economic Zone on 18 March 2017 and 02 December 2017. 12 Principle 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies. Energy savings, User-friendly friendly machinery, tools and equipment o Installed individual LED sewing lights (November 2014) on all machines which is more energy efficient, and gives better illumination for the workers o Purchased four (4) new air conditioning unit (last November 2014) which is also more energy efficient than the old ones. o Installed two (2) Evaporative Air Conditioner unit in 2013 as a substitute for regular air conditioner. These new units are more environment friendly since it only uses water as a cooling agent instead of Freon. It is also more energy efficient because it consumes significantly lesser electricity than conventional aircon units. o Sewing machines uses a servo motor which are more energy efficient because it only runs when the pedal is pressed compared to a clutch motor which runs continuously even if you are not stepping on the pedal. It also does not generate hazardous waste such as used oil and does not require changing the oil. o Pattern and marker making is done by computer aided design (CAD) software which optimizes paper and fabrics consumption, thereby reducing waste/scrap materials. o Steam boilers have no emission because the company is using portable electric boiler. o Energy saving compact florescent lamp (CFL) is being used to replace incandescent bulbs, while electronic ballast are used for florescent lightings instead of the regular ballast o New printers purchased are equipped with continuous ink supply system (CISS), (CISS) which are more energy efficient , economical and could also reduce waste such empty cartridges. Compliance to material testing on OekoTex Standard 100 o Dealing with European buyers entails a lot of compliance to their requirements. One of this is the Oeko-Tex Tex Standard 100, world’s eco label for textiles. Materials and accessories used in our shirts have been tested to the defined criteria of Oeko-Tex 100. It provides a guarantee that product poses no perceivable health risk to endend consumers or any human beings. We make sure that all our suppliers are delivering to us materials that pass OekoTex standards. The idea of Oeko-Tex Tex Standard means creating a quality product that is universally valid as this quarantees the consumers or buyers that the products or materials used are ecologically harmless. o Using materials and accessories like fabrics, threads, buttons, interlinings and others that are tested and considered as environment-friendly friendly proved the company’s initiative to address environment-related related issues. This is also our chance to raise awareness to other companies within the supply chain to meet the ecological standards required to compete globally. We intend to continue giving satisfaction to our customers by providing them not only quality but user-friendly and environment-friendly friendly products. 13 Principle 10. Business should work against Corruption in all its forms, including Extortion and Bribery. Integrity Initiative o On 05 December 2011, Mr. Claus Sudhoff, President and CEO of CS Garment, Inc., has signed an Integrity Pledge, a commitment to ethical business practices and good corporate governance. Said program was spearheaded by the European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines o The participation of Mr. Sudhoff, as President and CEO of CS Garment Inc. in the Integrity Initiative is a way to create key measures and control activities intended to ensure transparency, integrity and ethical business practice amongst the garment sector. The company aims at becoming a big player in cultivating a culture of integrity not only in the country but also in the global world. o The pledge is the company’s commitment for the prohibition of bribery in any form in all activities. It ensures that any charitable contributions, business gifts, and sponsorships are transparent and will not be a purpose of influencing others into improper exercise of their functions, duties and judgment. Freedom Run o To support our advocacy of upholding integrity and promote good governance, CSGI cooperated and participated in the Freedom Run organized by the Friedrich Naumann Foundation (FNF), in partnership with the Integrity Initiative, Inc. (III) and European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines (ECCP) with the theme “I “ Am Free From Corruption” on 27 September 2015, Equal pay for Equal Work o Equal fair pay for a job well done, there will not be corruption in salary pays. Seniority pay and productivity-based based bonuses are provided. Regular review of payroll, production record for incentive is conducted by the HR Manager to verify accuracy. Payroll padding will be avoided also. o The company believe that giving employees better benefits will help them avoid corrupt practices. Productivitybased incentives and bonuses will enhance more the employees efficiency level. It is chain reaction, in return, company offers more attractive benefits and compensation. High company efficiency of 90% is an indicator that employees enjoyed their productivity incentives also. o Minimum wage increase of Php16.00 per day was given effective its implementation on 1 July 2016 14
