Publishing House „Lietišķās informācijas dienests”, Ltd / „Applied Information Service”, Ltd Communication on Progress, 2017 2018 Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From September, 2017 to September, 2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) August 23, 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Publishing House „Lietišķās informācijas dienests”, SIA / „Applied Information Service”, Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mrs. Aiva Viksna Business Development Director Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals We provide constant and continuous support of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other EU and international standards. Implementation We raise awareness for employees on Human Rights; as far as our company deals with publication of recently passed legal acts, we ensure that our employees and clients receive the latest legal information of this issue. Our company’s human resources policies and procedures support Human Rights as well. Measurement of outcomes Periodic review of results by senior management – no cases of Human Rights violations are discovered in past year. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals We have got written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits in our company and we follow them continuously. Implementation We raise awareness for employees on Labour Rights and policies; as far as our company deals with publication of recently passed legal acts, we ensure that our employees and clients receive the latest legal information of this issue. Our company’s human resources policies and procedures support good Labour Principles and practices as well. Consultations with other stakeholders – our Business Development Director acts as vice-president of Employers’ Confederation of Latvia (LDDK). Measurement of outcomes Periodic review of results by senior management – no incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles are discovered in last year. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals We raise awareness for employees on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks; as far as our company deals with publication of recently passed legal acts, we ensure that our employees and clients receive the latest legal information of this issue. Implementation  Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes.  Initiatives to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (water, electricity, paper, etc.) Measurement of outcomes  Periodic review of results by senior management. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals We provide constant and continuous support to the UN Convention against Corruption and other EU and international instruments. Implementation We raise awareness for employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.); as far as our company deals with publication of recently passed legal acts, we ensure that our employees and clients receive the latest legal information of this issue. Measurement of outcomes Annual Internal audit to ensure consistency with anti-corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management.
