Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company Iraq – Basra www.southgroupco.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 Period covered From: 28/04/2017 To: 28/04/2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED 28/04/2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Akeel I. Al-Khalidy General Manager 1 Communication On Progress (COP) 2017 | AGMACo Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company Iraq – Basra www.southgroupco.com 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS  Human Rights Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company not only works to address human rights issues within its communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company’s teams and members’ officers continue to work closely with the senior leaders to build and enhance the foundations of AGMACo network’s ethics program, including the following ways: • AGMACo ethics training programs, including onsite courses, classroom programs and facilitator-led interactive case discussions (ethics training is required for all new employees upon joining AGMACo and for all AGMACo employees every two weeks); • Channels for reporting ethics issues and concerns that emphasize confidentiality and nonretaliation; • An annual signed confirmation from all employees to AGMACo indicating that all of them have read, understood and are in compliance with the “Code of Practice” ; and • A practice-review program to measure compliance with AGMACo “Employee Relations Management Plan” and continuous improvement in ethics programs over time. AGMACo Integrity Imperative, launched in 2006, amplifies the Employee Relations Management Plan across the AGMACo offices and sites by empowering leaders to set a strong tone from the top; encouraging people to speak up when they witness anything that runs counter to our Code of Practice; and helping AGMACo act quickly and appropriately in the face of misconduct. AGMACo’s Code of Practice outlines our ethical commitments as a network and expectations for our employees, giving us a strong, principled foundation. Elements of the Code of Practice directly address human rights and treatment of our people including the following: • We support efforts to drive sustainable development, and we respect human rights standards. • We foster a culture and working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal opportunity for all. • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments • We understand the broader impact that our work has on society, our people, and our clients, and we conduct business with those interests in mind. Two of the focus areas of AGMACo public policy efforts have people at their centers and as such touch on fundamental underpinnings of human rights: 2 Communication On Progress (COP) 2017 | AGMACo Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company Iraq – Basra www.southgroupco.com • Inclusive growth—engaging economic, social and environmental issues that matter most, because businesses can’t succeed if society fails; • Future of work—addressing the changing demands of the workforce of tomorrow, including how, where and when work is done. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY STATEMENT Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company is committed to conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner. We respect and support national and international principles aimed at protecting and promoting human rights, as described in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In our own operations, AGMACo seeks to operate in compliance with all applicable laws wherever we do business. While governments have the primary responsibility for protecting and upholding the human rights of their citizens, AGMACo recognizes its responsibility to respect human rights in its operations. In addition, we recognize that we have an opportunity to promote human rights where we can make a positive contribution. This includes, among other things, opposing human trafficking and the exploitation of children. Releasing 11,224,000 m2 of land (only between 2016 2017) Between 2016 and 2017 we have released 11,224,000 m2 of land , cleared and QAQC’ed from UXOs and ERW mitigations, to be developed for the investment of Oil and Gas Companies that are competing to invest for the benefit of our country. That means we have contributed for the benefit of environment and human safety. Maintaining the Mine Risk Education (MRE) The wars before 2003 in Iraq and specially the areas where there has been combats during the Iraqi-Iranian war (1980-1988) and the Desert War (1990 and 2003) resulted in very large contaminated areas, both humans and animals have been suffering from. Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company is continuing the education of risks of mines and all the ERW risks that can face the populations in the areas, both companies investors and people loving in the area . We also produced shot films to help raise the awareness for the risks of mines and UXOs. List of the links to those films are below: Film: Arms That Picking Death and Planting Hope Found on the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U8XlhlX5nro Film: Candle of Hope Found on the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4188-dsswvg Film: Hope Prevails 3 Communication On Progress (COP) 2017 | AGMACo Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company Iraq – Basra www.southgroupco.com Found on the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HvZQCjGTpEQ  Labour rights AGMACo’s Code of Practice elements directly address labor principles through a number of provisions including, on one hand the respect, diversity and fair treatment as we embrace a working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal opportunity for all, and the diversity of the people and cultures as well as talented and experiences. We also addresses individual needs, in the same time allow the unique strength to blossom. None the less we do not tolerate any kind of harassment or discrimination in working contest. On the other hand we provide professional development and support labeled in the investment in our people development and their professional knowledge, necessary skills and safe work environment as we support programs to that effect. We implement this commitment through a dedicated compliance program that communicates expectations to our licensing and sourcing partners, monitors sites working conditions; implements facility improvement plans where necessary, and engages with stakeholders. AGMACo compensates its employees with wages and benefits that meet or exceed the legally required minimum under the Iraqi Labor law, and dose exceed the working hours of the Iraqi Labor Law as well as the onsite working hours that included in the UNMAS. AGMACo’s Code of Practice and Employee Relations Management Plan and many othe SOPs are insisting on all three values of No Discrimination, No Harsh or Inhuman Treatment and defiantly No Child Labor Arabian Gulf mine Action Company is an ISO certified company and we are committing to our policy of environment and management.  Anti-Corruption Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company’s Anti-Corruption team and member firm Anti-Corruption leaders work closely with senior our leaders to build and enhance a consistent anti-corruption program across the AGMACo network, which includes the following elements: • An anti-corruption policy that includes requirements for member firms’ own anticorruption programs and addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; • Anti-corruption training that includes applicable policies, corruption red flags relevant to AGMACo and case scenarios; • Support activities—including communications, workshops, and webinars—to facilitate best practice sharing among AGMACo Anti-Corruption people; 4 Communication On Progress (COP) 2017 | AGMACo Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company Iraq – Basra www.southgroupco.com • Annual member firm anti-corruption self-assessment survey and other guidance and tools (such as guidance on anti-corruption testing and monitoring) to measure the effectiveness of anti-corruption programs across the AGMACo’s network; • A globally consistent process to perform anti-corruption due diligence on subcontractors, marketplace alliances, vendors and suppliers that are considered for business relationships; • A consistent methodology and process for AGMACo member firms to perform corruption risk assessments; • An annual confirmation from member firms to Arabian Gulf Mine Action Company that all of their people acknowledge that they have read, understood and agree to comply with the local anti-corruption policy and are not in violation of this policy; and • A review program to assess compliance with AGMACo anti-corruption policies and encourage continuous improvement in member firm anti-corruption programs. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Key monitoring and performance highlights during 2017 to support alignment of our business with the UN Global Compact Principles on Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights have included: Certificate of ISO 14001:2004 for Environment Management System. Certificate of OHSAS 18001:2007 for Health & Safety Management System Certificate of ISO 9001:2008 for Quality Management System List of Environmental aspect-impact and control the significant impact. Achievement of the objectives of Environment management system. Roll-out of HSEC awareness training globally across the business. 5 Communication On Progress (COP) 2017 | AGMACo
