TRUST IN PEOPLE. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & INCLUSION REPORT 2017 About this report Contents Our Business at a Glance 3 This is our seventh annual report on matters Executive Introduction 4 of Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion. 2017 at a Glance 5 It provides information and performance data across our global operations for the reporting Our Approach 6 period January to December 2017. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion and Our Business 8 Community Investment 13 Diversity & Inclusion 21 Sustainability 28 Performance Data 35 United Nations Global Compact 38 We welcome your views on all aspects of the report. Please send your feedback to rachel.moseley@thomsonreuters.com You can view this report online at thomsonreuters.com/cri and read the 2017 Thomson Reuters Annual Report at annual-report.thomsonreuters.com. Cover image REUTERS/Danish Siddiqui Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 3 Our Business at a Glance We also operate: • Reuters, a leading provider of real-time, high-impact, multimedia news and information services to newspapers, television and cable networks, radio stations and Thomson Reuters is the world’s leading source of news and information for professional websites around the globe. markets. Our customers rely on us to deliver the intelligence, technology and expertise they • A Global Growth Organization (GGO) that works across our need to find trusted answers. The business has operated in more than 100 countries for business units to combine our global capabilities and expand more than 100 years. We are a Canadian company with shares listed on the Toronto Stock our local presence and development in countries and regions where we believe the greatest growth opportunities exist. Exchange and New York Stock Exchange (symbol: TRI). GGO supports our businesses in Latin America, China, India, the Middle East, Africa, the Association of Southeast Asian We are organized in three business units supported by a corporate center: Nations, North Asia, Russia and countries comprising the Commonwealth of Independent States and Turkey. Financial & Risk • An Enterprise Technology & Operations (ET&O) group, A leading provider of critical news, information and analytics, enabling transactions which was created in January 2016 to drive the transformation and connecting communities of trading, investment, financial and corporate of our company into a more integrated enterprise by unifying professionals. Financial & Risk also provides leading regulatory and operational risk infrastructure across our organization, including technology management solutions. platforms, data centers, real estate, products and services. On January 30, 2018, we signed a definitive agreement to enter Legal into a strategic partnership with private equity funds managed A leading provider of critical online and print information, decision tools, software by Blackstone. Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and an and services that support legal, investigation, business and government professionals affiliate of GIC will invest alongside Blackstone. As part of the around the world. transaction, we will sell a 55% majority stake in our Financial & Risk business and will retain a 45% interest in the business. We will maintain full ownership of our Legal, Tax & Accounting Tax & Accounting and the Reuters News businesses. A leading provider of integrated tax compliance and accounting information, software and services for professionals in accounting firms, corporations, law firms and government. 4 Welcome to our annual Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report, which chronicles our progress in the areas of sustainability, diversity and inclusion and community investment. That progress is driven by our people. I am privileged to Beyond their day jobs, our people dedicate their time work with talented colleagues who are excited by solving and skills toward making a difference in their local interesting problems with purpose. This year, we wanted you communities. The upward trend of our community to hear directly from those colleagues who helped Thomson investment commitments continued last year with more Reuters “do well by doing good.” than 177,000 volunteering hours recorded, far exceeding our target of 150,000. Our work has never been more important than it is today. Executive The world needs fair and open markets, resilient tax systems Employee Green Teams worked in their office locations and confidence in the rule of law. It needs the transparency to address local climate challenges and thanks to those Introduction and rigor of independent journalism. efforts, I am pleased to report our carbon footprint across the organization continues to fall year-on-year. In 2017 we I take great pride in the inherent good within our commercial achieved an Ascore with the Carbon Disclosure Project mission, but even more so in the way we go about our reflecting our progress in this space. “Developing the talents chasing our ambitions. Operating to the highest ethical standards makes us a better company. Developing the I am incredibly proud of our people and their efforts. and championing talents and championing the contributions of a diverse and inclusive workforce makes us a better company. And, giving The pages ahead include some remarkable stories of how we are collectively working toward a sustainable, inclusive the contributions of a back to our communities and protecting the environment and trustworthy future. You will also find updates on our makes us a better company. commitments to the United Nations Global Compact and diverse and inclusive In 2017, we announced our commitment to reach a minimum Paris Climate Accord. of 40% female representation in senior leadership roles I hope you will find this report as inspiring as I have. workforce makes us a by 2020, a milestone on the road to greater gender equity. I am pleased to report we remain on track with 32% of senior better company.” leadership roles held by women at the end of 2017, up from 30% in the previous year. Our efforts for greater parity across our leadership and employee population aren’t limited to gender. For the second year running we have focused on developing black talent across Jim Smith the business through a dedicated development program and President & Chief Executive Officer a leadership Taskforce, and we collaborated with our partner Thomson Reuters Stonewall to run a leadership program for LGBT+ talent. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 5 2017 at a Glance Volunteer grants 40% women in Launched our Achieved Ascore in Carbon increased by 60% leadership by 2020 7th Greenhouse Gas Disclosure Project Emissions report Over 177,000 100 meetings with our Increased 17 places A total of 235 46% more partners hours volunteering customers and partners on our own D&I Index employee networks, and clients on our to advance sustainable 20% increase Sustainability Site development since 2016 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 6 Our Approach Our Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion (CR&I) approach encompasses diversity Our approach continues to evolve in line with the business to ensure that our efforts reflect and inclusion, community investment and sustainability. Our activities, policies and internal and external demands. The function reports directly into the Office of the CEO and commitments underpin our role as a responsible business and a member of the United our chief people officer, with oversight and sponsorship from additional members of our Nations Global Compact. Executive Committee. Diversity & Inclusion Community Investment Sustainability Diverse Talent Volunteer Engagement Thought Leadership Establish programs and processes that systematically attract, develop Expand reach to support global community partners, leverage Increase sustainability best practices through our thought leadership, and accelerate the careers of all top talent employee skills, strengthen corporate brand and reputation, and while deepening connections with our clients and partners provide larger social impact Inclusive Workplace Charitable Contributions Business Sustainability Create a workplace in which everyone is valued and has Financially support global community partners, expand employee Identify opportunities to reduce our enviromental impacts and increase an opportunity to reach their full potential enagagement, strengthen corporate brand and reputation, and our business efficiency provide larger social impact Client & Partner Engagement Bring deep connections and partnerships with clients, future clients, peers and strategic stakeholders, we want to manage and measure these relationships to bring greater value to our business aims and our role as a trusted partner Employee Engagement Work with our employees to increase enagagement across our programs, educate on broader issues in the space and equip with the right tools to be ambassadors internally and externally External Recognition Recognize via benchmarks and awards our products and programs relating to CR&I and responsible business behaviors as well as external representation in media coverage, trade press and events Sustainable Development Goals & Social Impact Understand the social impact our products, services and strategic partnerships have on enviromental, social and governance (ESG) issues, and frame these impacts through the increasingly influential United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2017 saw continued growth across our programs and increased engagement with stakeholders across the globe (see pages 10 and 11 for examples of our stakeholder partnerships). This success is supported by our employee networks, where passionate individuals drive our efforts in their office locations and regions. Our Global Volunteer Networks, Business Resource Groups and Green Teams are the heartbeat of our work and reflect the passion of our employee base. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 7 Evolving our approach Our values underpin our responsibilities In a changing climate, we know that responding At Thomson Reuters, our values shape our culture and are embedded throughout the business, to both internal and external demands around forming an important aspect of how we deliver for all our stakeholders. the broader topics of responsible business is vital. In 2017 we saw interest levels rise across all topics and greater emphasis placed on how Trust Innovation we continue to embed this work into discussions We act with integrity and independence We innovate to serve our customers, drive with all our stakeholders. Our commitment to by holding ourselves and each other our growth and win in dynamic business the United Nations Global Compact, and our accountable, ethical and reliable in all environments. role as a trusted partner, has seen us educating that we do. Innovation @ Thomson Reuters and embedding environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into our approach. The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles Additionally, our commitment to diversity and inclusion continues to set us apart, and we know that there is continued opportunity to Partnership Performance work with internal and external partners to continue the progress towards our targets. We work together – with each other, with We deliver results and we excel at work that our customers and with industry partners – positively affects the world. to deliver superior results and experiences. We are proud to be a business that is built on responsible values. Our Trust Principles, established in 1941, demonstrate our commitment to independent and unbiased news, information and data; they are as relevant today as they were then. Reflecting their importance, the Founders Share Company is an independent board that ensures the Trust Principles are being complied with across all areas of our business. Additionally, our recently updated Code of Business Conduct & Ethics informs our ethical commitments and our overall CR&I approach, and is mandatory for all our employees to read and comply with. Our responsibilities and values extend to all those that we do business with. Our Supply Chain Ethical Code forms part of our supplier contract and is embedded into the overall supplier process. In 2017 we also published our first Modern Slavery Statement outlining our commitment to supply chain transparency in compliance with legislation. And our position and commitment to climate change remains core to our business operations. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 8 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion and Our Business Our governance model The Sustainable Development Goals mean business Oversight from a range of senior leaders on our CR&I approach is vital to its success and Aligning our work to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) has to ensure it is responsive to the needs of the business. We have a range of processes in embedded our work deeper within the business, demonstrating the impact that our place to ensure that they are updated regularly on our progress and provide input and people, our partnerships and our products have on sustainable development and ESG support as needed. issues. To ensure that the business value was brought to life, we ran a campaign to connect our core capabilities to the broader topic of sustainable development. This included an Our CR&I Taskforce meets two to four times a year and is composed of senior leaders “Introduction to the SDGs” session for our employee networks and others who support across the business. The meetings focus on progress to date, updates on KPIs, and our work in their day-to-day roles. We held interviews with senior leaders who discussed upcoming programs and activities. Within the Taskforce, we have executive sponsors who the value of specific SDGs to their work and promoted the products that have a broader support specific areas of work, and we proactively update our entire Executive Committee social impact on the SDGs. There were also events hosted across some locations to raise on a quarterly basis with key successes and targets reached. Our CFO, Stephane Bello, is awareness of issues in a real setting, including a session on bug eating as a sustainable executive sponsor for our sustainability work, including our cross-enterprise ESG Footprint food source. This campaign increased internal awareness and understanding of the part Committee. Our chief strategy officer, Brian Scanlon, and chief of staff, Carla Jones, are we can all play, but also the role Thomson Reuters has as a member of the United Nations executive sponsors for our ESG Institute. Global Compact. We have a Women’s Advisory Taskforce and a Black Talent Taskforce (you can learn more about them in the diversity and inclusion section). Additionally, we have regional and business unit-specific councils that seek to address ESG issues impacting them. Our transparent governance structure ensures that progress is being made across our agenda with engagement from key stakeholders. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 Thomson Reuters Foundation Our corporate charity, the Thomson Reuters Foundation, acts to promote the highest standards in journalism and spread the practice of legal pro bono worldwide. The organization runs initiatives that inform, connect and empower people around the world: access to free legal assistance, editorial coverage of the world’s underreported news, media development and training, and the Trust Conference. You can learn more about the Foundation at trust.org. “The Thomson Reuters Foundation runs initiatives that inform, connect and empower people around the world.” REUTERS/Damir Sagolj Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 10 Partnering with our stakeholders We continue to collaborate with our stakeholders both internally and externally, reflecting a core part of our approach in 2017. As a trusted partner, we are proud to work with a range of stakeholders on the topics of responsible business. This report contains just some of the examples of our partnerships as well as the following stakeholder chart. Stakeholder Group Key issues we engage on How we engage Examples of 2017 activities Customers • Corporate sustainability • Research, insights and thought leadership • Through our Sustainability Site and thought leadership report, • Diversity and inclusion • Customer events we shared insights on sustainable risks and opportunities with our • Impact investing • Business Resource Groups customers and profiled some of their initiatives • Risk management • Partnerships • We discussed the Diversity & Inclusion index, our methodology • Community investment • Sales teams and how customers can improve • ESG research data • Speaker events • We took part in numerous events with customers • Volunteering • We responded to customer surveys and questionnaires on the topic of responsible business practices • We partnered with customers to give back and to invest in our local communities Employees • Volunteering opportunities • Presentations • We promoted our commitment to the Sustainable Development • Diversity and inclusion • Training and professional development Goals to colleagues through an internal campaign • Environmental issues such as office • “The Hub” intranet and other internal • We worked with our 235 employee network groups as they hosted energy efficiency communications channels events and activities across the globe to support our goals • Ethical business conduct • Global Volunteer Network • We held induction sessions for new joiners to the company, • Company values • Green Teams outlining our programs and how they create a social impact • Sustainable Development Goals • Business Resource Groups • We amplified the internal expertise on sustainable development • Thought leadership blogs and • Employee and manager surveys through our Sustainability Site commentary • Workshops and events • Sustainability Site Suppliers • Environmental practices • Procurement and due diligence processes • Through our Sustainability Site, we shared insights on supply • Human rights and labor rights • Research, insights and thought leadership chain issues • Workplace diversity • Events and conferences • Our Supply Chain Ethical Code formed part of our supplier contracts • Supply chain transparency • Partnerships • We complied with the Modern Slavery Act by publishing our Transparency Statement Continued next page Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 11 Stakeholder Group Key issues we engage on How we engage Examples of 2017 activities Investors • Responsible investment • Investor relations • We participated in conferences about responsible investing • Social impact investing • Events and conferences • Our ESG data helps investors choose sustainable and ethical • Thomson Reuters ESG performance • Annual Report companies in which to invest through a range of indices NGOs and charities • Sustainable Development Goals • Partnerships • Our employees volunteered over 177,000 hours to charitable • Education • Research projects organizations across the globe • Environmental issues such as climate change • Events and conferences • We supported numerous charities through strategic partnerships • Women’s and children’s empowerment • Sponsorships and through our Community Champion Awards, Volunteer Grants, • Social justice • Employee volunteering Matching Gifts and Payroll Giving programs • Health and well-being • Community investment • The Thomson Reuters Foundation ran programs and initiatives to promote socioeconomic progress and the rule of law • Social mobility • Innovation, coding and technology Media and opinion • Climate change and energy • Research, insights and thought leadership • Our Sustainability Site and our special reports are primary formers • Corporate governance • Events and conferences channels for engaging opinion formers and the media on • Health • News services sustainable development issues • Ethics • We were invited to speak at events to share insights as well as • Diversity and equality producing opinion features for external publications • Corporate sustainability • Members of our leadership spoke to an audience of influencers and opinion formers at the World Economic Forum in Davos Governments and • Responsible business operations • Partnership • We have a close partnership with the United Nations Environment policy makers • Government or industry consultations Programme, where we helped make emerging policy available to our markets • We worked closely with governments and judiciaries globally to support the development of the rule of law Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 12 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 12 Materiality and our business We know that there are core ESG issues that impact our business. In 2016 we undertook a materiality assessment to reflect changing business priorities, market conditions, global trends and stakeholder concerns. This assessment prioritized risks and opportunities, and the findings continued to guide our approach in 2017. Materiality assessment matrix Information integrity High Freedom of expression Ethics and business standards Innovation for social impact ESG risk management Thought leadership & industry expertise Diversity and inclusion Building partnerships Data security Importance to stakeholders CR&I governance Data privacy and protection Content creation & dissemination Supplier diversity Intellectual property protection Attracting and retaining talent Medium CR&I employee engagement Customer experience & satisfaction Employee development Employee volunteering Supplier risk management Waste management Supplier management Supplier standards Environmental management Market responsiveness Serving our customers Business travel Carbon emissions Energy management Being a responsible business Cutting-edge solutions Focusing on talent and diversity Positively inﬂuencing our supply chain Charitable donations Beneﬁting our communities Minimizing our impact on the environment Low Low Medium High Importance to business 13 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT. REUTERS/Antonio Bronic 14 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 Supporting the needs of our local and global communities is part of our culture at Thomson Reuters. Our employees use our programs and activities to support the causes they’re passionate about, partnering with community organizations and charities to create real social impact. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 15 Progress to targets Volunteering Hours Charitable Contributions Target: 150,000 hours Target: 10% increase in program engagement Actual: 177,135 hours (4,100 employees) Actual: 33% increase in program engagement (5,306 employees) Investing in our communities For the second year, our Hour Power campaign demonstrated the impact that just one hour of volunteering can have. Employees volunteered together in their office locations As a global organization, we’re proud that our programs and activities are available for a range of causes; this included everything from hosting an all-girls CoderDojo global to our employees around the world. All employees receive two paid days a year to marathon to creating useful learning materials and toolkits to enhance learning abilities volunteer as well as US $1,000 as part of our Matching Gifts or Volunteer Grants program. for thousands of children in India. In total, 28 events were hosted resulting in 2,748 This means that our employees can meet the needs of their local charitable organizations volunteering hours. Additionally, our Community Champion Grants program also saw with either a matched financial contribution or a charitable grant in recognition of 20 or great success this year; 89 events were hosted globally, with 936 employees logging more volunteering hours. 8,621 volunteer hours. The program encourages our employees to volunteer together for a charitable organization and specific cause, supported with a charitable grant. In 2017 In 2017 our employees volunteered 177,135 52 charitable organizations were supported through this program. hours, a 28 percent increase in just one year. We continue to see huge growth in volunteering engagement across the company. In 2017 our employees volunteered 177,135 hours, a 28 percent increase in just one year. Additionally, our Volunteer Grants program has seen participation from twice the number of employees, with increased engagement across India contributing to this exceptional achievement. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 16 Increasing our impact with in-kind The impact of our employees We know that the value we can offer our community partners goes beyond our Global Volunteer Networks (GVNs) are groups of active and passionate employees volunteering and charitable contributions. As a company, we are proud to be able to who work in their office locations to raise awareness of our community investment partner with a number of organizations to offer our Jumbotron advertising space to help programs and facilitate engagement in specific events and activities. There are currently their message reach a wider audience. Our screens in Canary Wharf, London and Times 73 GVNs across our global locations; this includes an additional 17 groups that joined in Square, New York, have supported campaigns through the year to over US $704,000 2017. Since its launch in 2009, we have seen our GVN network increase by 23 percent, of in-kind contributions. We also offer our products where appropriate, including our demonstrating the commitment and dedication of our employee base. conferencing app “Convene”, to support our partners and keep their administrative costs down for large events. Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we are actively supporting the Updating our global tool Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our employee networks. In 2017 our Since 2009 our employees have accessed our on-line tool to make use of our community GVNs focused on a specific SDG each quarter; these goals were identified as causes investment programs. This enables our employees to access the same consistent benefits that are globally aligned and resonate with both our employee passions and our no matter where they are in the world. In January 2017, we updated the tool to a new business approach. platform to offer a streamlined user experience, increased capabilities and additional Q1: SDG 1, No Poverty languages for our global needs. We continue to work with our provider to ensure that we are supporting our employees’ chosen charities and causes in the best possible way. Q2: SDG 13, Climate Action Q3: SDG 5, Quality Education Q4: SDG 2, Zero Hunger Over 50 groups coordinated No Poverty Aligning with the SDGs has been a success not only in supporting a range of causes with and Climate Action events, and over 2,300 a sustained impact, but to also educate our employee base on the importance of business, NGO, government and individual collaboration to meet these important goals for a employees took part in Quality Education sustainable future. A range of activities took place thanks to our GVNs. Over 50 groups coordinated No Poverty and Climate Action events, and over 2,300 employees took part and Zero Hunger activities. in Quality Education and Zero Hunger activities. All these events provided over 25,000 volunteer hours toward our volunteering hours target goal. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 CASE STUDY: Our Joy of Giving campaign fights hunger in India In support of SDG 2, Zero Hunger, and World Food Day, employees in India joined forces with the Akshaya Patra Foundation with a goal to feed a minimum of 1,000 children for a year. The organization is one of the largest midday meal programs in the world and serves meals to thousands of schools in India. The campaign offered employees the opportunity to make use of our range of dedicated community investment programs. Employees donated funds to support the charity, which were then matched by the company, doubling the impact. Employees then participated in numerous activities such as volunteering in the organization’s kitchens and spreading awareness about the campaign through office floor walks and hosting ice cream socials. To demonstrate the direct impact of the campaign, an in-house lunch session was hosted in the Bangalore office where employees could sample the meals that their fundraising would support. Thanks to the generosity of employees, 2,824 children will be fed through the foundation in the coming year. “Thanks to the generosity of employees, 2,824 children will be fed through the foundation in the coming year.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 CASE STUDY: Our girls-only CoderDojo marathon goes global Across nine countries, Thomson Reuters volunteers from our Bangalore, Geneva, London, Nottingham, Exmouth, Washington DC, Ann Arbor, New York and Carrollton offices logged over 100 volunteer hours hosting a girls-only CoderDojo global marathon to change the world one byte at a time. 300 girls signed up for the Thomson Reuters-sponsored events, where they participated in HTML coding, pair programming, building apps and sharing presentations. CoderDojo is a community of free programming clubs to give young people the opportunity to learn how to write code; build websites, apps and games; and explore digital media and technology. “300 girls signed up for the Thomson Reuters-sponsored events” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 19 Leveraging our skilled employees Community investment in India In 2017 we increased our focus on skills-based volunteering through a range of programs. Since 2014 Thomson Reuters has supported legislation within India to donate 2 percent We are proud of the value that our skilled employees can make to charitable organizations of our annual net profits to social causes within the country. We focus on five key areas, and have various partners across the globe that we work with to ensure that these skills as identified by our India governance committee, with the overall aim to create a more can have the greatest impact. inclusive world alongside our NGO partners: The diverse range of roles and skills across our employee base includes a number of • Education & Vocational Training individuals trained in legal services who support our thriving Pro-Bono Connection program. • Gender Equality This program supports and encourages pro bono legal services by our employees. We’ve • Livelihood Enhancement formed key partnerships with local nonprofit agencies, focusing on different fields of legal practice for our employees to provide pro bono service for those in need. • Environmental Sustainability • Contribution to Technology Incubators We also connect skills-based volunteering back into learning and development programs, maximizing our internal expertise to not only create a social impact for the community For the reporting year 2016-2017, we collaborated with nine NGOs, contributing but to enhance leadership skills within the business. One way this happens is through US $340,485 and supporting 18,000 direct beneficiaries. “Pilotlight” in the UK, where select employees commit their time alongside leaders from other businesses to work with senior management and boards in the charity sector. Working collaboratively to identify and address issues, the aim is to increase the effectiveness and impact of these charitable organizations and enable them to scale and grow through skills and business insight. Through Pilotlight and other development programs and training, our employees undertook over 2.8 million learning hours. We are proud of the value that our skilled employees can make to charitable organizations … 20 Partnership is one our core values at Thomson Reuters and being able to create, build and work with partners is something that became extremely visible and tangible when Hurricane Harvey hit close to our offices in August 2017. Hurricane Harvey is estimated to have created damages worth up to US $108 billion, and reports of at least 44 people killed with 19 missing. Our own employees in Houston were impacted and so for something of this scale it’s without question or doubt that we would and should support. We reached out to our community partners and learnt of a local organisation “Trusted World” leading efforts to support victims of the hurricane. We immediately worked with the charity to identify the items most needed by victims and held a donation drive at our office. In just four days, an office of 1,200 employees donated over 6,000 items to the victims of the hurricane. It was remarkable for me to see our colleagues working together to support those in need and creating real impact on our doorstep. Our colleagues were able to make use of their two days of volunteering time and also support many other local charities through skills based volunteering, knowing that their time makes a difference to their local community. My hope is to continue in this vein and to leverage our expertise and resources to support the communities and causes we are all truly passionate about. A VIEW FROM OUR PEOPLE Gabrielle Madison on supporting “In just four days, an office of 1,200 employees donated victims of Hurricane over 6,000 items to the victims of the hurricane.” Harvey in Texas DIVERSITY & INCLUSION. REUTERS/ Albert Gea 22 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 Our strength as an organization is rooted in the skills and experiences of our global employees, and on this principle, we continue to build an inclusive workplace where all our employees are valued and can reach their full potential. We know that a diverse workforce not only impacts the bottom line but it also meets the needs of our diverse customer base. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 23 Progress to targets Inclusive Workplace Diverse Talent Target: 82%+ score for D&I in Target: 80% diverse Target: 30% conversion to employee engagement survey candidate slates diverse appointments Actual: 83% score for D&I in Actual: 81% diverse Actual: 59.3% diverse hires employee engagement survey candidate slates A focus on diverse representation Following the success of our women’s On International Women’s Day in March 2017, we furthered our commitment to gender equality within our leadership. Jim Smith, our CEO, announced a goal of 40 percent initiatives, we expanded our efforts to representation of women in senior leadership roles by 2020. This announcement builds on the focus and activities we began in 2013, championed by our Women’s Advisory Taskforce, focus on representation of Black employees to ensure that our leadership better reflects our global workforce. In 2017, our female representation in leadership increased to 32 percent, an 8.5 percent increase over four years. and LGBT+ employees across our business. Following the success of our women’s initiatives, we expanded our efforts to focus on representation of Black employees and LGBT+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender+) employees across our business. With the support of our Black Talent Taskforce, we launched the Impact and Influence Program, a targeted leadership development program for Black employees. To date, 45 employees across Thomson Reuters businesses in the U.S. and the UK have participated. We recognize the importance of developing all employees and continue to work with partners across the world to facilitate and implement programs to ensure our employees can reach their full potential. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 24 Tracking our data The impact of our employees In partnership with our leadership, we continue to work hard to understand more about Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are networks of employees across our company our workforce representation. With the available data, we are increasingly equipped who support our D&I agenda through collaboration with internal and external networks. to be proactive in our programs and approach, as well as able to ensure leadership They have unique insights and understanding of how D&I-related issues and topics impact accountability of our goals and commitment. This data is gathered through voluntary employees in their office locations and regions, and work alongside business leads to disclosures and in accordance with global and regional data protection and shared with achieve our goals. senior leadership on a quarterly basis. Our networks across the globe include: Recruiting diverse talent We recognize the importance of focusing on diverse talent at the start of a recruitment • Asian Affinity Group • Latino Network journey, and it continues to be core to our approach. In 2016 we made diverse candidate • Black Employee Network • Pride at Work slates and interview panels mandatory for all roles, including for our senior-level roles. • Disability Network • Veteran’s Network To date, 59 percent of hires for director level and above were diverse appointments, an • Early Careers Network • Women@Thomson Reuters increase of 16 percent over 12 months. In collaboration with HR, hiring managers and our recruitment teams, we continue to educate on the importance of this process and are seeking new opportunities to ensure that we are able to position our business as a best-inIn 2017, our BRGs facilitated a range of events and activities. These included a wheelchair class business to work for. challenge for our senior leaders to raise disability awareness; a CEO roundtable on race, In 2017, we worked hard to make sure that our collaborations with external partners where internal staff spoke to our CEO about their experiences; and building out the align with our internal goals. We were proud to sign the Women in Finance charter in company’s understanding of HIV and AIDs in the workplace alongside the global function the UK, partnered with the Black British Business Awards, sponsored the OutLeadership to connect to global regulations and guidance to make sure that Thomson Reuters is Asia Summit and scored 100 percent in the Human Rights Campaign survey for the fifth educated in the right way. consecutive year. Relaunching our Diversity & Inclusion Index To date, 59 percent of hires for director Following the success of our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Index in 2016, that mapped public companies based on their D&I performance, we launched our 2017 list, which level and above were diverse appointments, highlights the top 100 firms that had the strongest ESG scores. Thomson Reuters ranked at 40, moving up 17 points from its ranking in 2016. The Index promotes transparency an increase of 16 percent over 12 months. in the diversity and inclusion space and demonstrates its link to strong business results. The Index is also an opportunity to highlight the breadth and depth of our ESG data for investors, from across a universe of 6,000 companies worldwide. The index has also given us the opportunity to discuss our rankings methodology with a number of companies listed and to share best practices with customers and partners. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 25 CASE STUDY: Casting a New Light on LGBT+ in Australia and New Zealand Our BRGs are essential in raising awareness of important topics and collaborating with partners to drive change and engagement. Our Pride at Work network in Australia & New Zealand (ANZ), supported by the Thomson Reuters Legal Australia business and in partnership with the Lawyers Weekly publication, conducted a landmark nationwide LGBTQIA (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, Intersex and Asexual) survey collecting the views of legal professionals on LGBTQIA diversity and inclusion in Australia. The survey attracted responses from private practice, in-house counsel, barristers and government lawyers. The survey results were revealed at the 2017 Beyond Tokenism event hosted by our Pride network and held at our Sydney office, featuring high-profile guest speakers and a number of our customers. The key highlights from the survey: • Legal professionals are more likely to express a positive assessment of their own firm’s approach to inclusivity than of the legal profession as a whole • Just over half believed that their organization was doing enough to promote inclusion • Two-thirds believed the profession should be doing more to promote inclusion • Fewer than half believed the profession’s approach to LGBTQIA inclusion went beyond tokenism Survey respondents who identified as LGBTQIA had witnessed or experienced discriminatory or offensive behavior significantly more regularly than nonLGBTQIA respondents. The majority of respondents indicated that there is no single organizational level that should be responsible for addressing discriminatory behavior and that shared responsibility lies with senior management, immediate managers, immediate peers and colleagues, and HR. These survey findings continue to shape how organizations can address these issues and work collaboratively for an inclusive workplace across industries and professions. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 26 Working with our customers Collaborating with our customers on topics around diversity and inclusion is something we are In Hong Kong, for the second consecutive year, our annual Thomson Reuters Pan Asian very proud of. It not only gives us the opportunity to come together on important topics but Regulatory Summit featured a panel session on why diversity and inclusion is such a key also builds strong partnerships. In August 2017, Thomson Reuters hosted a two-day workshop issue for banks and financial institutions, and why they should continually champion these alongside our partners Stonewall and Barclays Bank. This two-day workshop was the first in their business. The Summit is attended by over 500 key compliance, risk and related of its kind in the private sector and saw 38 LGBT+ employees from across Thomson Reuters individuals from the financial sector in Hong Kong and continues to build important and Barclays attend the training to develop core leadership skills. The program provided an relationships in this space. understanding of how the delegates’ own experiences can help in being inclusive, authentic, engaging leaders, demonstrating the value that LGBT+ leadership brings to an organization. Thomson Reuters participants came from across our global locations, including Sydney, Manila, Bangalore, Cape Town, Johannesburg, London, Tampa, San Francisco and Buenos Aires. 27 Let’s start with the facts: • 83% of working age people acquire a disability as opposed to being born one •  On average one in four adults will be diagnosed with a mental illness at some stage during their lifetime In August 2017 I took on the responsibility as the lead of the London Disability Network. It’s something I’m particularly passionate about as I’ve wrestled depression myself and having family members who live with disabilities. As a network we got involved with the “This is Me” campaign to share the stories of Thomson Reuters employees about their own experiences with mental ill health, from anxiety and depression to bipolar. We put the video together to raise awareness of an issue that is very real for many of our colleagues and received incredible feedback from across the globe. We have seen firsthand how it has impacted colleagues positively, – a remarkable example of this is from a colleague who watched the video and recognized similar symptoms in her partner, which led to a doctor’s visit and treatment for her partner. It also led us onto a conversation around action plans and building the profile on the benefits and services available to colleagues who need support both internally at work and at home, as well as sharing best practice with our clients and partners externally. It has been a phenomenal experience and project to work on and I feel it has been a spring board for us. A VIEW FROM OUR PEOPLE We now officially have a global leadership team for the Disability network with representatives in the UK, USA and India with the aim to expand the network globally. Daniel Callaghan on leading a mental health awareness “As a network we got involved with the “This is Me” campaign campaign in London to share the stories of Thomson Reuters employees about their own experiences with mental ill health …” SUSTAINABILITY. 29 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 Our approach to sustainability ensures that we manage and measure our own environmental impacts responsibly. Additionally, we leverage our knowledge, data and human expertise to drive discussions on sustainable development across industries and alongside trusted partners, with the aim of promoting and enabling the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. This layered approach to operations and thought leadership allows us to be a trusted partner in the wider sustainability space. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 30 Progress to targets Business Sustainability Thought Leadership Target: 1% reduction in Target: 60 published pieces from partners carbon emissions and clients Actual: 10%+ reduction in Actual: 96 published pieces from partners carbon emissions and clients Managing our emissions Reporting externally Since 2011 we have made progress on reducing our carbon emissions that exceed Transparency in disclosures is key to our role as a responsible business. We report annually the recommendations set forward by the Paris Accord. Thomson Reuters continues to the Carbon Disclosure Project and in 2017 achieved a score of A-. We know that we to be committed to proactively managing our emissions and will continue to adhere need to make more progress to move the needle as a data and analytics company and will to governmental targets and recommendations. In 2017 we have reduced our carbon continue to identify and innovate around transparency in our reporting processes to reflect footprint by an additional 10 percent, exceeding our annual target of 1 percent. the progress we’re making internally. Understanding our outputs The impact of our employees In January 2017, we completed an environmental audit with a third party to better understand Our global Green Team network reflects our employees’ commitment to achieving our impacts and the additional steps we needed to take to meet internal and external targets. environmental sustainability, both at home and in the office. Since these teams This audit recommended we set bolder targets in the following four key areas: re-launched on Earth Day in 2016, we now have a global network of 32 Green Teams across the globe. Activities to educate employees and to support the Sustainable • Energy Development Goals were all regionally and locally tailored to reflect the environmental • Waste challenges facing our employees where they live and work. • Water The teams collaborated with their local Global Volunteer Networks to support SDG • Supply Chain 13, Climate Action alongside Earth Day, and SDG 2, Zero Hunger for World Food Day, Working with partners across our business, we have formed an ESG Footprint Committee arranging food drives, sustainable food seminars, tree planting initiatives including to proactively identify and manage material environmental, social and governance issues activities around water scarcity, flood defenses and wildfires. across our global footprint, with executive sponsorship from Stephane Bello, our CFO. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 CASE STUDY: How we used plastic waste as a green alternative to building bricks The Manila Green Team, in partnership with Make A Difference Travel, ran a “Stuff It” challenge. The campaign encouraged people to fill plastic bottles with nonbiodegradable waste and turn them into “ecobricks” that may be used as an alternative to hollow blocks in constructing low-cost community structures. “… they were able to fill over 2,000 plastic bottles.” The campaign was a success, with over 400 employees making ecobricks and others donating plastic bottles or plastic waste to fill the bricks. The Manila Green Team made use of our Hour Power campaign, one of our community investment programs, to support the cause by logging volunteering hours as well as achieving awareness of sustainable development issues. After the campaign, the team, along with participating employees, held an immersive tour with the Yangil tribe in Zambales, including a visit to their plant nursery where they grow seedlings and saplings to reforest their land. The plant nursery had to be surrounded by a wall to fend off chickens and other animals from eating their produce. Some portions of the wall weren’t finished, so during the visit, the team built a three-foot wall using the ecobricks. While the team was unable to measure exactly how much plastic waste was collected, they were able to fill over 2,000 plastic bottles. This campaign helped to educate employees on the impacts of consumerism, in the face of external consumerism and the country’s “sachet culture,” leading to an increase in plastic waste. The success of the campaign means that a second Stuff It challenge could also take place in coming years to build on this great work. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 32 A new look for our Sustainability Site Our thought leadership site brings the latest news, insights and reports on sustainable development. Since its launch in 2012, we have published content from numerous customers and partners, highlighting the responsibility of all stakeholders in supporting global sustainability targets and ambitions through innovations and embedded business practices. In 2017 we moved the site to a new platform and integrated our content as part of the Thomson Reuters blog network. This move enabled us to make use of new technologies, including live feeds from Reuters News on environmental topics and the option for readers to sign up for newsletter updates. The content on the Sustainability Site is accessed annually by roughly 200,000 sustainability professionals from across 202 countries, demonstrating the impact of our news and the importance of thought leadership on this topic. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report: A new business logic In partnership with the UN Environment Programme, the Carbon Disclosure Project, Constellation Research and the UK & Canadian Colloquium on Transitioning to a Lower Carbon Economy, we launched our sixth and seventh Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Reports. The reports present the latest GHG emissions data from the world’s 250 largest publicly traded emitters, a group of businesses in the oil, gas, utility, automotive, aircraft, manufacturing, steel, mining and cement sectors. The reports look at best practices across the economy and aim to demonstrate the relationships between decarbonization and long-term financial performance. This information is critical to investors and policy makers, alongside the demands for increased transparency and accurate and comparable performance metrics. Key findings include: • This small group of companies are responsible for one-third of global annual emissions (including their value chains) and will help determine the fate of efforts to address climate change • Comparing the relationship between multiyear decarbonization trajectories and a broad set of financial performance metrics, there is no evidence of a trade-off between financial and environmental performance among the G250 • Roughly 20 percent of the G250 have strategies in place to drive business transformations necessary to reduce their climate impacts • A meaningful number of that 20 percent are demonstrating that their transformation strategies create real business value through cost structure improvements and new revenue growth opportunities, as well as risk mitigation • New strategy centric metrics are introduced to better understand how firms can be assessed along their sector-based decarbonization pathways We are proud of how our partnerships and our data in this space continue to increase transparency and accelerate the discussion on this important topic. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 33 Partnerships for increased insight and impact We value our partners across the world who are working towards the same goals and ambitions around sustainable development and whose insights allow us to further the message and increase visibility to audiences globally. In 2017 we partnered alongside many organizations to feature our content and products at events, profile insights on our Sustainability Site and provide support through our media channels, including our Jumbotron screens in London and New York. We continue to work closely with key partners such as the UN Environment Programme, the UN Global Compact and Business for Social Responsibility on various aspects of sustainability through collaborations that include thought leadership, coalitions and sponsorships. ESG Institute Recognizing the need for more strategic and efficient cross-enterprise coordination and innovation on ESG business issues, in October we established the ESG Institute. To leverage Thomson Reuters ESG expertise for increased business opportunities, the ESG Institute has two objectives: a) mainstream ESG issues into Thomson Reuters culture and b) position Thomson Reuters as a trusted advisor on ESG issues, particularly in the data and analytics space. This will be accomplished through a comprehensive platform of employee engagement, awareness-raising, training, research, thought leadership, technical support and media. In 2018 we will work collaboratively across the enterprise to achieve these objectives and to demonstrate the value that ESG investment can bring back into the business and to our customers and partners. REUTERS/Paulo Whitaker 34 The day known to us as Day Zero where school and office closures, limited water in homes and hospitals will be our harsh reality, draws closer and closer. I became the Thomson Reuters Green Team lead in Cape Town, South Africa to support the company to take action to reduce our environmental impacts. Over the last two years I have been part of a global network of other passionate employees across the globe who are educating colleagues on the simple tangible actions we can take to slow down the effects of climate change. In February 2017, I learnt of an amazing innovation – a waterless carwash service in Johannesburg. Mint Green Wash, is a 25 minute service that sprays vehicles with a wax that sticks to the dirt on your car, which is then buffered off with a microfiber cloth. Not only does it clean your car without water, it leaves it smooth and protected for longer. I introduced this to our facilities team and in a month, it was up and running in our office basement for our 300 employees to make use of. Within 10 months 1,305 cars have been washed and 130,500 liters of water has been saved, and it will continue to run in 2018. We no longer have time or a plan b, we need to act now. And I hope with innovations such as the waterless carwash, we will continue to adapt to the new normal and learn how to preserve water. A VIEW FROM OUR PEOPLE Vichal Ghira on “I have been part of a global network of other passionate combating drought employees across the globe who are educating colleagues in Cape Town, on the simple tangible actions we can take …” South Africa Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 35 Performance Data People Data 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Employees Total Employees 46,100 45,700 52,000 53,000 57,800 Gender – Male | Female % 56% | 44% 57% | 43% 57% | 43% 58% | 42% 58% | 42% New Hires (all levels) – Male | Female % 53% | 47% 55% | 45% 56% | 44% 57% | 43% 59% | 41% Senior Executives – Male | Female % 68% | 32% 70% | 30% 71% | 29% 74% | 26% 74% | 26% Director/Vice President – Male | Female % 68% | 32% 68% | 32% 69% | 31% 70% | 30% 72% | 28% Managers – Male | Female % 61% | 39% 61% | 39% 62% | 38% 62% | 38% 63% | 37% Total Training Hours 2,812,758 2,756,924 n/a n/a n/a Average Training Hours per Employee 61.04 54.2 n/a n/a n/a Head Count By Region Americas 21,800 21,800 25,000 25,400 27,000 Europe, Middle East and Africa 10,200 9,900 11,300 11,500 12,400 Asia 14,100 14,000 15,700 16,100 18,400 Community Investment Volunteering Hours 177,135 137,626 118,549 95,000 91,326 Matching Gifts (US $) 1,639,519 1,965,705 1,964,603 1,904,226 1,512,257 Volunteer Grants* (US $ | Employees) 1,019,380 | 1,476 613,843 | 919 441,682 | 719 390,500 | 480 434,500 | 521 * Previously named Dollars for Doers Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 36 Environment 2017 Tonnes* %* 2016 Tonnes % 2015 Tonnes % 2014 Tonnes % 2013 Tonnes % Total CO2 emissions 308,370 100 399,147 100 458,125 100 507,960 100 530,607 100 Scope 1 7,898 2.6 5,362 1.3 6,925 1.5 8,094 1.6 7,773 1.5 Scope 2 (electric) 255,470 82.8 277,208 69.2 309,383 67.5 355,034 70.0 372,507 70 Scope 2 (leased heat) 7,219** 2.3 65,282 16.4 89,387 19.5 91,135 17.9 102,245 19.3 Scope 3 37,782 12.3 51,296 12.9 52,429 11.5 53,697 10.6 48,082 9.2 Emissions per US $ million 27.3 n/a 35.9 n/a 37.5 n/a 40.3 n/a 42.3 n/a Emissions per 1,000 square feet 28.4 n/a 33.4 n/a 35.0 n/a 38.2 n/a 37.9 n/a Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions: Combustion * Estimated, not verified Scope 2: Indirect GHG Emissions: Purchased Electricity | Leased Heat ** In 2017, due to our ongoing efforts, Thomson Reuters continued to see a GHG reduction trend that was similar to past years. In addition, our overall reduction of 24% was also attributable to a methodological shift from the use of the EPA Natural Gas STAR Program conversion tools (removed from website) to that provided Scope 3: Other Indirect GHG Emissions: Business Travel and Transport by DEFRA. Business Travel*** 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total Miles Traveled 185,532,711 166,949,133 167,355,578 164,549,934 179,294,669 Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 37,782 51,295 43,421 42,393 32,308 Air: Miles Flown 177,758,440 164,933,932 165,515,498 162,611,237 177,294,070 CO2 emissions (tonnes) 32,621 42,867 43,240 42,054 32,090 Rail: Miles Traveled 1,766,713 2,015,201 1,840,080 1,938,697 2,000,599 CO2 emissions (tonnes) 139 198 180 339 218 *** Travel as booked through business-approved agents. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 37 Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance Thomson Reuters ESG scores are calculated based on performance indicators with a range from between A+ and D(where 91.6% to 100% = A+, and 0% to 8.3% = D-). For more information on our own ESG data, please visit financial.tr.com 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 ESG Combined Score C B+ B+ C C Overall Company Score B+ B+ B+ B+ B+ ESG Controversies Score D BBD D Corporate Governance Management C+ C+ AB A Shareholders C C+ C C C CSR Strategy A AA AB+ Environment Resource Use B+ AAAB+ Emissions A A AABInnovation B+ B+ B+ B+ B Social Workforce A A A+ AAHuman Rights AAB B B Community AC+ AB B Product Responsibility C C C C C Current score available at time of publication. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2017 38 United Nations Global Compact As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to the Ten Principles to achieve a better world as part of our own global business operations. UNGC Principles Inclusion in report Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Pages 7, 8, 10, 11 human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Pages 7, 8, 10, 11 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Page 7 right to collective bargaining Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Page 7 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Page 7 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pages 7, 22-27 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pages 6, 30-34 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 6, 8, 10-12, 29-34 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Pages 6, 29-34 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Page 7 Visit tr.com © Thomson Reuters S059831/4-18
