Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability at Handelsbanken The cornerstones of our business culture and the basis of successful banking operations run in a sustainable, responsible manner are a long-term approach, low risk tolerance and cost-awareness. Our chief contributions to more sustainable development are embodied in the financial products and services we offer, to private as well as corporate customers, through our local branches and digital channels. The Bank’s success is measured not only in profitability but also in a strong brand and the high level of trust that customers, employees and other stakeholders have in us. Handelsbanken has a nationwide branch network in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. The Bank was founded in 1871 and currently has more than 11,800 employees and operations in more than 20 countries. For a long time, More than 800 Handelsbanken has had much lower branches in our six home markets. loan losses than peer banks. Handelsbanken and the Sustainable Development Goals. 146 We are working with the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. years of The following goals are in focus at availability. Handelsbanken: In 2017, More satisfied Handelsbanken launched customers than the sector average green loans for buildings. in all of our six home markets. Source: SKI/EPSI 2017. Contents The Group Chief Executive’s comments 2 The Bank’s concept and working methods 5 Material sustainability topics 8 The Bank and its customers 10 The Bank’s role in the community 14 The Bank’s indirect impact 20 The Bank as an employer 26 The Bank’s business culture 32 The Bank as an investment 35 Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes 38 IN-DEPTH INFORMATION ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY Governance, key ﬁgures and facts 43 Summary of corporate governance 43 Organisational structure for sustainability 44 46 years Sustainability risk 44 Handelsbanken and the Sustainable Development Goals 44 Stakeholder dialogue 44 Key ﬁgures for sustainability 46 running with better Facts: The Bank and its customers 47 Facts: The Bank’s role in the community 47 profitability than the average of Facts: The Bank’s indirect impact 50 peer banks in home markets. Facts: The Bank as an employer 52 Facts: The Bank’s business culture 54 Facts: The Bank as an investment 55 Global Reporting Initiative index 56 Auditor’s report 59 Deﬁnitions and explanations 60 32% of total fund volume About this report This report describes how Handelsbanken works on its most important sustainability topics. The aim of the report is to enable is fossil-free* and managed in our stakeholders to ﬁnd out about our sustainability work in a simple way and gain a good understanding of the results. The ﬁrst the Bank’s Criteria funds. part of the report follows the structure of Handelsbanken’s material sustainability topics and describes work and events that have taken place during the year. Supplementary information and *As deﬁned by the Swedish Investment Fund Association. data are provided in the part titled In-depth information about sustainability. The Sustainability Report encompasses the Group as a whole and constitutes the formal sustainability reporting in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for the companies that are subject to the reporting requirement. This is Handelsbanken’s eighth sustainability report based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting and it covers activities and results for 2017. The information refers to the Group unless otherwise stated. Handelsbanken’s reporting meets the ‘Core’ level of GRI Standards, which has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. See the auditor’s report on page 59. A comprehensive index according to GRI principles can be found on pages 56–58. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Handelsbanken arranged green bonds for Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 SEK 8 billion in 2017. Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.com This report is also available in Swedish. Every care has been taken in this translation into English. In the event of discrepancies, the Swedish original will supersede the English version. 1 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS An ordinary year for our extraordinary bank It was a fairly ordinary year for our rather extraordinary bank. This doesn’t mean that the year was uneventful – on the contrary, the level of activity was high throughout the Bank. This led to more customers, more satisfied customers, and more stable finances – just as usual. During the past year, Handelsbanken has gained many good, new what customers expect of us. Every day throughout the Bank we discuss customers. To a large extent, our existing customers also did more what more we can do to meet – and preferably exceed – our customers’ business with us this past year and, as in previous years, we had more expectations. satisﬁed customers than our competitors in all our home markets. Above all, I believe customer satisfaction is the product of our corporate We have developed new products, solutions and services. We have culture, of the way we organise ourselves and how we work. Handelsbanken also worked methodically to constantly improve and develop our existing has a highly decentralised way of working: in simple terms, you might offerings, and continued our efforts to comply fully with all regulations by say that the person who is closest to the question makes the decision. focusing on good administrative order. Despite several large, far-reaching This means that our most important business decisions are made projects, particularly new, digital services, we have steadily worked away locally, at our branches – quite often at the meeting with the customer at keeping costs in check, this year as in previous years. affected. Our return on equity was 12.3 per cent. This means that for the 46th year running, we achieved our corporate goal of higher proﬁtability than the average of our competitors. We achieved this goal primarily through our constant efforts to have lower costs and more satisﬁed customers than our competitors. This may sound contradictory: higher return, lower costs, and more customer satisfaction. Isn’t it incompatible to strive for shareholder value and customer “ Handelsbanken has a highly decentralised way of working: beneﬁt at the same time? in simple terms, you might say that We don’t think so – quite the opposite, in fact. We believe that satisﬁed customers in particular are essential to achieving good, stable proﬁtability the person who is closest to the in the long term. More satisﬁed customers do more business, use more services and are also our best form of marketing. Our customers telling their friends and business associates about us gives a credibility that no advertising agency in the world can match. question makes the decision. ” In fact, this is not just conjecture – it’s also backed up by scientiﬁc evidence. For several years, researchers at the Stockholm School of The fact that the customer participates in the discussion in which the Economics and the independent research ﬁrm SKI/EPSI have mapped decision is made – is key to customer satisfaction. Our customers always the relationship between satisﬁed customers and proﬁtability. They have meet the person who will make the decision, not a messenger with no found a correlation, not just in general but in precise, quantiﬁable numbers, actual authority. right down to the individual branch ofﬁce. Decentralisation gives us many other competitive advantages, too. These include highly skilled branch managers who are used to making decisions and are well acquainted with their local market and their customers. Our local responsibility and knowledge of customers have “ We believe that satisfied customers in particular are essential to achieving good, also greatly contributed to Handelsbanken consistently having lower loan losses than its peer banks. In other words, every business decision is backed up by experience, solid information about customers and knowledge of the local market. stable profitability in the long term. ” That’s also how we grow as a bank – through local decisions ﬁrmly grounded in knowledge and expertise. We have made no central decisions about growth targets or universal goals for expansion or the like. Instead, each branch is allowed to grow in This is why we regard everything we do to increase customer satisfaction step with its market, in a way they choose themselves – always at low risk not as a cost but as an investment. and low cost. In other words, we grow transaction by transaction, customer Handelsbanken has also had more satisﬁed customers than the sector by customer. We grow through our existing branches that win new average in all our home markets since SKI/EPSI started its surveys. In customers and continually seek to enhance business with their existing Sweden, our largest market, the gap between us and our major competitors customers. And where the business opportunities are favourable, we are increased in 2017, for corporate and private customers alike. happy to open new branches in those locations. We have more satisﬁed customers neither by chance nor coincidence. So our growth is not limited to any particular market or special condition. They are the result of extremely consistent, long-term efforts to win, retain In the Netherlands, for example, we are growing at a considerable pace and develop satisﬁed customers. – a rapid inﬂux of new customers and new business – which is not that We speak to tens of thousands of customers every day. We engage strange, since this is our newest home market, established in 2013. independent survey companies that continuously monitor and analyse At the same time, we are also growing in Sweden, a market we became H A N D E L S B A N K EN | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 0 17 2 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS established in almost 150 years ago. So our model works regardless of If a bank holds on to its branch network, it won’t be able to afford the whether the market is mature or we’re newcomers. necessary investments in digital services. This also means that no two of Handelsbanken’s 800-plus branches We beg to differ. In the past year, our home market in Sweden achieved are alike. Each branch manager decides independently how that branch a C/I ratio of 34.2 – which is one of the best results ever. For Handelsbanken, will become the best bank in that local market – and then customises then, the reverse is true: without our branches – and their healthy proﬁtability everything for that purpose: staff, skills and offering. So the branches do – we couldn’t afford to invest in digital advances. vary widely. Yet they all share the same core values and the same culture In addition, our branches provide us with a unique and continuous that embodies a high standard of service, good administrative order and reality check with our customers in their everyday activities. What do they the constant quest to be the best bank in the community. want? What do they not have? And yet as stated above, even with that common platform, the The answers will vary, of course, to some extent depending on the differences between branches can be great. market, but in general it’s safe to say that our customers expect us to For example, Erwin van der Steur, our branch manager in Groningen, continue developing our digital services. Based on consistent independent a town with many private houses, has some of the Netherlands’ most surveys, our customers give high marks to the Bank’s existing digital competent mortgage advisors on his team. At the same time, Paul solutions and offering. Brooksbank has deliberately brought in staff with many years’ experience For example, in its annual report on Swedish bank customers, the of working with small and medium-sized enterprises, because his branch independent research ﬁrm SKI wrote: “Handelsbanken’s technical solutions is in Leamington Spa, in the UK, home to many companies of this type. – for both corporate and private customers – have come out on top.” Another example is Tarja Suvisalmi, who has worked to make Handelsbanken’s Kuninkaankatu branch the natural choice for private banking customers in Tampere, Finland. Yet another example is our branch manager at Humlegården in Stockholm, AnneMarie Dahlstedt, who has some of the banking sector’s most competent corporate advisors to attract the many excellent corporate customers in her market. Add to this the fact that each branch always has access to all of “ The pace and scope of digitalisation in our operating environment has Handelsbanken’s collective breadth and strength. Any expertise that a accelerated in recent years. Accordingly, branch does not have on-site is located regionally or centrally and is fully available to the branch. No expert or specialist is further away from the we have stepped up the pace and branch than a phone call. Although Handelsbanken is one of Europe’s strongest banks, with six home markets and branches in more than 20 countries, we have a very strong local presence, uniquely adapted to local conditions wherever we scope of our digital advances. ” operate. We’ve known our customers, often personally, for many years. And our customers know us. We will continue to digitalise Handelsbanken. The pace and scope of In recent years and perhaps especially during 2017, we’ve heard digitalisation in our operating environment has accelerated in recent years. many reports of ‘the death of the branch’. The bank branch, it is said, Accordingly, we have stepped up the pace and scope of our digital is expensive and old-fashioned. Digital is the way to go, so they say. advances. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 017 3 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS At the same time, it is important to emphasise that our customers see no ranked among the top 10 companies in Sweden with the best reputations. contradiction between more digitalisation and local branches. On the This reputation is also bolstered by Handelsbanken’s ﬁnancial stability contrary, one message from the EPSI/SKI surveys that comes in loud and and consequent ability to always be an asset – and not a burden – to the clear is that customers want our continued local presence and opportunities societies where we operate. for face-to-face meetings. So even if our customers are becoming ever 2018 is the anniversary of an event that is relatively painful for many: more digital, they are still local, which is why Handelsbanken will also 10 years ago in September, Lehman Brothers crashed, marking the continue to be both local and digital. beginning of the most recent ﬁnancial crisis. In the autumn of 2008, One of our aims is for Handelsbanken’s digital solutions to be locally governments and central banks intervened in all of our home markets customisable as far as possible. I believe that such ‘localisation’ – coupled with extensive bail-out schemes for the ﬁnancial sector. with continued opportunities for face-to-face meetings with skilled We were the only large bank in Sweden that did not receive any aid. staff who are well acquainted with their customers and local conditions The reason was simple: we didn’t need it. We had a healthy supply of – will give us an outstanding competitive advantage and also be fairly capital and solid reserves, so we were able to continue doing all the hard to copy. business we and our customers wanted to do. Quickly adapting to new circumstances and demands in the business Today, almost 10 years later, we also have the beneﬁt of hindsight. environment is not that difﬁcult at Handelsbanken. I think that here, too, We have steadily grown shareholder value during the past 10 years. decentralisation plays a key role. Throughout the Bank there are people with the authority to make decisions independently. This brings with it Average growth in equity per share, SEK, 2007–2017* greater personal responsibility and strong commitment from all employees. 150 Let me share an example from the United Kingdom, a part of the 125 Bank that I have known well for many years. In the past decade, our R: 15 % CAG business there has progressed tremendously. Several years ago, we 100 realised that sooner or later we would have to convert that part of the Bank 75 into a subsidiary so that we could optimise our banking operations in 50 the UK market. This is happening now, a little earlier than envisioned, to 25 accommodate Brexit. I know that the employees who lead our operations in the UK can handle whatever is demanded of them, whether on the 0 Q4 2007 Q4 2008 Q4 2009 Q4 2010 Q4 2011 Q4 2012 Q4 2013 Q4 2014 Q4 2015 Q4 2016 Q4 2017 commercial front or compliance with the new regulations. They are making all the decisions now and implementing changes and modiﬁcations  Adjusted equity per share  Accumulated dividends since 2008 without disrupting their customer business. * Including dividends. In other words, a typical way of doing things at Handelsbanken. This diagram illustrates how Handelsbanken has generated shareholder value since the third quarter of 2007. The bars show adjusted equity and accumulated dividend in terms of SEK per share. Average annual growth equals 15 per cent. Growth has been stable, quarter by quarter, which reflects the Bank’s low risk profile and robust business model. This business model has proven manageable in a variety of challenging market conditions “ At the same time, it is important to emphasise that our customers see and continues to deliver stable, increasing value creation. The major rating agencies continue to rank us as one of the world’s no contradiction between more strongest banks. Naturally, a key factor contributing to this is our proven ability to continue operating regardless of changes in the business digitalisation and local branches. ” environment. This ability stems from our rather uncomplicated ideas about how to run our bank: we strive for proﬁtability that is higher than the average ﬁgure for our competitors, through lower costs and more satisﬁed customers. There is a great deal of interest in our work with sustainability. Our We have achieved this for 46 years running. customers want more than just good service and good products. They This working method increasingly sets us apart as a bank. But, we have also want to buy them from good, worthy companies. no desire to diverge from industry practice – we aren’t different just for the For us at Handelsbanken, sustainability is nothing new. We were already sake of being different. We are different because that is how we have working with these issues long before they were pulled together as a achieved more satisﬁed customers, sound proﬁtability, and thus strong concept called ‘sustainability’. It’s not so much a matter of adapting to the shareholder value. demands of the present but of continuing to work with issues we have In order to achieve this again in 2018, all our employees need to continue always worked with. doing as they have done during the past year: working with commitment One example of this is our view of gender equality and diversity. For and attention, each individual taking responsibility for advancing the Bank decades we have been working to foster an inclusive work environment and our business. based on trust and respect for every individual. If we can attract, recruit Many thanks to all of you for doing just this. and develop employees with different backgrounds and experiences, I would also like to offer my warmest thanks to our shareholders for the we will become an even better bank and enhance our ability to adapt to trust you have in Handelsbanken. a constantly changing society. And ﬁnally, many thanks to all our customers. In the coming years, Handelsbanken will without doubt continue to support and work with we will continue to do our utmost to live up to – and preferably exceed – international initiatives for corporate sustainability, such as the Principles your expectations. for Responsible Investment (PRI), the Sustainable Development Goals in How? By continuing to be Handelsbanken – only a little better, and the 2030 Agenda, and the United Nations Global Compact. This is also maybe also a little more different – just as usual. completely in line with Handelsbanken’s way of working. In brief, sustainability is a natural part of Handelsbanken’s business concept, corporate culture and method of running a bank. Our work on sustainability signiﬁcantly contributes to the Bank’s reputation as well. Ever since the independent research ﬁrm SIFO began surveying the Stockholm, February 2018 public on their opinions of Swedish companies, Handelsbanken has Anders Bouvin, President and Group Chief Executive H A N D E L S B A N K E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 0 17 4 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Our concept and working methods Handelsbanken has a decentralised way of working and a strong local presence through its nationwide branch networks. We attach great importance to availability and long-term customer relations where personal meetings with our customers are key. The whole of a bank’s business is based on trust. Our A long-term approach customers have chosen us because they trust us and Long-term business relationships, low risk-taking and have conﬁdence in the way we do banking. In short, our cost-awareness are cornerstones of Handelsbanken’s customers attach great importance to the fact that we business culture. They form the basis for successful bankare available, easy to deal with, and show understanding ing operations being run in a responsible, sustainable and care when interacting with them. manner. Slightly simpliﬁed, our method of building and running Handelsbanken has been conducting banking operaHandelsbanken is based on the following key elements: tions since 1871 and has the oldest listed share on the a long-term approach, satisﬁed customers, proﬁtability Stockholm stock exchange. Handelsbanken’s goal is to before volume, organic growth, and low risk tolerance. have higher proﬁtability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. This goal is to be achieved primarily by having more satisﬁed customers and lower costs Satisfied customers than our competitors do. Practically all important business decisions are made close to our customers, at one of the more than 800 “The whole of a bank’s local branches in our six home markets. This contributes to better decisions and more satisﬁed customers: our business is based on customers meet the person who makes the decision – not a messenger. This gives a sound basis for successful trust.” customer meetings, both at branches and our other meeting places. The customer’s trust is built up over the Our idea of how we should run our bank is based long term, but is won and nurtured at every meeting. By on trust and respect for individuals. This is why we are winning its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker their natural choice as a provider of ﬁnancial services. decisions taken close to the customer and creates commitment and the opportunity for our employees to make an impact and do an even better job. This in turn helps the Bank to gain more satisﬁed customers. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 5 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Availability, simplicity and care Our customers appreciate the fact that we are local, we know them and the local market, and we make our business decisions there, locally together with the customer. But our customers also expect to be able to do their banking when and where they please. This is why we are continually developing and improving our availability and our digital meeting places, thus enabling customers to visit their branch via their phone, tablet or computer. In several home markets, we also offer personal technical support 24 hours a day. In addition, in Sweden our customers can be served by qualiﬁed bank ofﬁcers by phone 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. When a customer contacts us, the meeting should be simple and unbureaucratic. Our aim is that the customer should be able to do the same type of business with the Bank, regardless of the meeting place. That is why we are constantly working to develop and improve the Bank’s technical solutions. In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the best possible conditions for successful meetings with customers. This is how we create, maintain and develop strong, long-term customer relationships. Meetings with customers not only entail ﬁnding a simply way to solve their everyday banking needs. We must also provide service that embodies care and Skilled staff focuses on the customer’s needs. Handelsbanken’s decentralised working methods mean that we give our staff a high degree of responThe branch is the Bank sibility and authority to make decisions in all kinds of Handelsbanken is geographically organised so as to matters important to the customer. This high degree create the best possible conditions for building relationof trust is based on a belief in people’s willingness and ships with customers. ability to seek and overcome new challenges and At Handelsbanken, the local branch always has cuscontinuously hone their skills. tomer responsibility, regardless of how, where or when The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations the customer contacts the Bank. The business is led by with both customers and employees. It sees each a manager who is responsible for all operations in his or recruitment as important and long term. Employees her branch’s local area. The branches’ independence with long experience and with broad knowledge from enables them to have a very strong local presence, the whole Bank make a vital contribution to the Bank leading to long-term customer relationships. Short having satisﬁed customers. To retain employees, the decision paths make it possible to adapt more quickly right conditions must exist for personal development to changes in local markets and make the most of new through work while each individual’s work-life balance business opportunities. must be respected. Country Group units and Group organisations Branches CUSTOMER staff functions business areas and regional head ofﬁces This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working is best depicted by an arrow where all operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the profitability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of joint business areas for the Group where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head office also has joint units and staff functions with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. 6 H A N D E L S B A N K EN | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 0 17 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS “ We always offer the customer our best advice, without looking at what is the most profitable product for Handelsbanken in the short term.” A full range of products and services A prerequisite for successful customer meetings is that Handelsbanken Profitability before volume offers a full range of products and services to meet the various ﬁnancial Our employees who meet customers are paid no variable remuneeds of its customers. We do not divide customers into different segments neration – neither in the form of bonuses nor commissions – or target speciﬁc product or service areas. The individual customer’s and therefore have no ﬁnancial incentive to convince the customer unique needs are the deciding factor. that a particular service or product suits them best. Nor does the Bank have requirements regarding volumes, budgets or centrally Our best advice determined sales targets. Instead, the Bank measures its success We always offer the customer our best advice, without looking at what is in terms of customer satisfaction, cost-efﬁciency and proﬁtability. the most proﬁtable product for Handelsbanken in the short term. Handelsbanken achieves higher proﬁtability by running the The customer’s needs are the basis for the Bank’s advisory services, and Bank more efﬁciently, and thus at a lower cost than peer banks on we take into account each customer’s overall situation and circumstances. its home markets. Consequently, high proﬁtability does not mean By offering our best advice, we build trusting, long-term relationships with that Handelsbanken’s customers pay more. every customer. Organic growth For Handelsbanken to retain high proﬁtability in the long term, growth is necessary. Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. In this way, Handelsbanken grows customer by customer, branch by branch. This organic model enables Handelsbanken to achieve growth coupled with low risk and good cost control. This method of working and of achieving growth has proved successful in an increasing number of locations and countries. Handelsbanken has a nationwide branch network in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. Low risk tolerance Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. The Bank’s strict approach to risk means that it deliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even if the remuneration is high at the time. This low risk tolerance applies to all areas of the Group and is maintained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long term. The Bank’s business model focuses on taking credit risks in the branch operations, and the only risks we are prepared to take are credit risks on customers whom we know well and with whom we build long-term relations. The objective is therefore to minimise other risks, such as market risk, so that we have a business model that is stable over time, regardless of changes in the business cycle. Positiontaking in the Bank’s business operations is only accepted in customer-driven transactions, and Mikkeli branch | Finland only within strictly deﬁned limits. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 7 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Focus on essentials Simple and clear principles apply at Handelsbanken, as we grow customer by customer, branch by branch with a The Bank The Bank’s role focus on the long term and stability in and its customers in the community all our relationships – internal as well – Satisfied customers – Local presence Material topics as external. The result is profitable, – High availability – Financial stability and – Responsible lending profitability stable growth that creates value for – Responsible sales and advisory – The Bank should not be our owners and builds trust in us as services a burden on society – Integrity and confidentiality – The Bank as a taxpayer a business with a role in society. – Direct environmental impact Read more on page 10. Read more on page 14. CORPORATE GOAL Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtability than What does it – Continue to meet and preferably – Maintain a strong presence in the the average of peer banks in its home markets. In our exceed expectations on quality local community, with a nationwide involve? experience, proﬁtability is the result of focusing on the right and service through products branch network in the Bank’s six things by doing what is right by our customers, employees designed for customers’ individual home markets. needs. – Contribute to the community in the and the community. Our overall goal of proﬁtability provides Handelsbanken – Maintain a high degree of availacountries where the Bank operates, bility through our branches, by such as by employing people and with the prerequisites to take a long-term approach, and phone and via digital services. paying taxes and government fees. by taking a long-term approach we ensure proﬁtability. – Always consider the customer’s – Handelsbanken is – and will conSimilarly, the sustainability topics we consider top priority financial circumstances when tinue to be – a bank with stable align closely with a long-term approach and proﬁtability. granting credit. finances, which manages without – Advise customers based on their support from the government or Return on equity 1973–2017 central banks or any need for individual needs, without looking at % capital contributions from its what is the most profitable product 30 shareholders. for the Bank in the short term. 25 – Take responsibility for protecting – Reduce our direct environmental 20 impact, such as from business customers’ banking business, 15 such as from unauthorised access, travel and paper consumption. 10 through strict IT security. 5 0-73 -75 -77 -79 -81 -83 -85 -87 -89 -91 -93 -95 -97 -99 -01 -03 -05 -07 -09 -11 -13 -15 -17 Outcome 2017 – More satisfied private and corpo– More than 800 local branches in -5 rate customers than the average our six home markets. -10 For key figures, for the banking sector in all of the – At year-end, the Bank had a Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* see page 46. Bank’s six home markets. common equity tier 1 ratio of * Only Swedish banks for the period up to and including 2002. – Highest rating for digital services. 22.7 per cent. At the same time, – For many years, Handelsbanken the Bank estimates that the Swedish STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE has had much lower loan losses Financial Supervisory Authority’s It is vital that we keep ourselves up-to-date on what than its peers in the banking common equity tier 1 capital sector. Loan losses corresponded requirement at the end of the year stakeholders want and demand from Handelsbanken. As to 0.08 per cent (0.09) of lending. was 20.2 per cent. The Bank’s well as engaging thousands of stakeholders in dialogue on capitalisation was thus within the a continual basis, in 2017 we also held in-depth, qualitative target range. discussions with selected groups of stakeholders, inside – Handelsbanken’s total taxes and and outside the Bank, as part of the process of continuing government fees are estimated at to deﬁne the Bank’s most material sustainability topics. more than SEK 10 billion for 2017. As a result of these stakeholder dialogues, Handelsbanken’s – The Bank is one of the largest material sustainability topics have been grouped into payers of corporate tax in Sweden. six areas: – Total CO2 emissions in the Bank’s • the Bank and its customers six home markets decreased by • the Bank’s role in the community 4 per cent. • the Bank’s indirect impact • the Bank as an employer • the Bank’s business culture • the Bank as an investment. THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Contributing to In September 2015, the UN General Assembly adopted the Sustainable the 2030 Agenda and the 17 Sustainable Development Development Goals (SDGs). Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Committee Goals (SDGs) has analysed these Goals and identiﬁed the ones that we will focus on in our operations. In 2017, we worked on integrating the Goals in our operations, within the framework of our material topics. H A N D E L S B A N K EN | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 017 8 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS The Bank’s The Bank The Bank’s The Bank as indirect impact as an employer business culture an investment Material topics – Responsible lending – Responsible employer – Business culture – Creating shareholder value – Responsible investment – Working conditions and – Salaries and remuneration union rights – Anti-corruption and bribery – Employee commitment – Counteracting money – Leadership and development laundering and terrorist – Health and work environment financing – Gender equality and diversity Read more on page 20. Read more on page 26. Read more on page 32. Read more on page 35. What does it – Credit risk assessments must – We aim to be a secure, attractive – Handelsbanken aims to conduct – Sustainable long-term growth involve? take into account the customer’s employer. its operations with high ethical and shareholder value can approach to human rights, funda– We promote ways of working that standards. only be achieved if the Bank mental principles of working allow employees to be proactive and – We have a sound remuneration simultaneously creates long-term conditions, environmental influence operations. model. No performanceor value for its customers and concerns and anti-corruption. volume-based bonuses or other society as a whole. – All employees have the right to join a – As part of the investment process trade union or employee organisation. forms of variable remuneration – One of the purposes of Handelsin mutual fund, asset and pension are paid to Handelsbanken’s banken’s goal is to offer sharemanagement, Handelsbanken – Managers at Handelsbanken aim to executive officers or to any other holders long-term, high growth promotes sustainable developidentify, encourage and develop new employee who takes decisions in value, expressed in increasing ment in financial, environmental managers at the Bank. on credits or limits. earnings per share over a and social terms in the companies – We aim to create the conditions for – The Bank’s employees must business cycle. in which the Bank invests on a sustainable long-term working life. never be involved in activities – The Bank aims for the ordinary behalf of customers. – When recruiting new employees, we that could involve bribery or dividend to show long-term, aim to take a broad-based approach corruption. stable growth which reflects the so the workforce reflects the com– We aim to work pro-actively to value creation. munity where the Bank operates. prevent all kinds of criminal – Our culture should be inclusive and activity such as money launderinformed by an open attitude to ing, terrorist financing and other diversity. financial crime and corruption. Outcome 2017 – Procedures were updated for – External staff turnover was – In 2017, employees of the Bank – Every year for more than 20 assessing sustainability risk in con4.7 per cent in the Group. completed a mandatory training years, Handelsbanken has paid For key figures, nection with credit to companies. programme on ethical standards a dividend to its shareholders. – The total sickness absence rate for see page 46. and sustainability at Handels– The Bank’s global index funds track employees in the Bank’s six home – Handelsbanken is included in the sustainability-oriented indexes. markets was 2.5 per cent. banken, including a module on following sustainability indexes: anti-corruption. ECPI (including ECPI Global – The number of Handelsbanken’s – The proportion of managers in mutual funds meeting sustainability the Group who are women was – The principle of only having a Developed ESG Best in class criteria increased to 24, represent40 per cent at year-end. fixed salary applies to 98 per Equity), Ethibel Sustainability ing SEK 221 billion in total assets cent of the Group’s employees Index, FTSE4Good, OMX GES – A forum has been created for and is applied without exception Sustainability, SIX Sweden SRI under management. gender equality and diversity with to executive officers, all staff who Index and STOXX Global ESG – Green loans were launched for representatives from the managedecide on the Bank’s granting of Leaders. buildings meeting specific environment teams in the home markets credits, and employees in the mental and climate-related criteria. and from Handelsbanken Capital – Handelsbanken was included in Bank’s control functions. the Robecosams Sustainability – The Bank’s Hållbar Energi Markets, Group IT and Group HR. The aim is to ensure a Group-wide – The Bank continued its work Yearbook 2018 as a ‘Sustainability (Sustainable Energy) Criteria fund implementing a code of conduct Yearbook Member’. earned the Nordic Swan environfocus on this issue. for major suppliers in all home mental certification. markets. In Sweden, we have – Handelsbanken Asset Managealso begun to introduce a ment intensified its active corporate requirement in particular sectors governance by participating in and that suppliers sign our code of voting at 75 per cent more AGMs. conduct regardless of purchase – The number of women on boards volume. where Handelsbanken Fonder serves on the nomination committee increased to 38 per cent. Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 9 The Bank and its customers Handelsbanken attaches great importance to being available for our customers – being there whenever and wherever they need us. Our customers appreciate the fact that we are local, we know them and the local market, and we make our business decisions there, locally together with the customer. Strandvägen branch, Stockholm | Sweden THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS SATISFIED CUSTOMERS For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting individual customers’ requirements. In this way we build a trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. Handelsbanken continuously strives for all important business decisions to be taken as close to the customer as possible. This contributes to better meetings with customers, better decisions and more satisﬁed customers. In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the best possible conditions for successful meetings with customers. By gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes their natural choice For example, loyal customers are less likely to get for ﬁnancial services. dissatisﬁed and change banks. In EPSI and SKI’s annual surveys, loyalty is a key outcome associated Satisﬁed customers in all our home markets with customer satisfaction. There is a link between Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction surveys customer satisfaction and loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects very important. Every year, EPSI Rating – which includes whether customers intend to remain with their bank, SKI (Swedish Quality Index) – carries out independent how they talk about their bank, and whether they surveys of customer satisfaction. This year’s surveys would recommend their bank to other people. showed that Handelsbanken has more satisﬁed private In addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s customand corporate customers than the average for the ers are very satisﬁed, the results for 2017 show that banking sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. they are also very loyal. In all home markets, loyalty Thus the Bank remains strong in customer satisfaction. to the Bank is considerably stronger than the average Customers also gave the Bank’s digital services high for the sector. This is also true in markets where marks in this year’s surveys. In addition, the surveys Handelsbanken is seen as a major player, which can showed that the relationship between community be considered unique. involvement and customer satisfaction is growing stronger, especially among private customers. This year’s Good reputation insurance industry survey also showed that, in Sweden, According to the Kantar Sifo Reputation Index for 2017, Handelsbanken has the most satisﬁed customers of the based on public opinion Handelsbanken is one of the major banks in private pension savings. 10 companies in Sweden with the best reputation, These independent surveys of customer satisfaction regardless of sector. The Bank’s index score of 58 are proof of Handelsbanken’s success in working can be compared with those of the other major banks consistently and continuously to nurture long-term in Sweden, which are between 20 and 42. customer relationships. The survey shows that Handelsbanken is perceived Having loyal customers is just as important as havas maintaining high ethical and moral standards, ing satisﬁed customers – the beneﬁts are numerous. demonstrating social responsibility and being a good This year’s surveys showed Customer satisfaction – private customers 2017 Customer satisfaction – corporate customers 2017 that Handelsbanken has Index Index more satisfied private and 90 90 corporate customers than the average for the banking 80 80 sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherlands Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI 2017. Source: SKI/EPSI 2017. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 12 THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS “Customers also gave the Bank’s digital services high marks in this year’s surveys.” workplace. These are important factors inﬂuencing the the market. We have also drawn up our own guidelines Bank’s reputation in a sustainability context. Handelsthat go further than these standards, with the aim of Relevant SDGs banken receives higher marks than its competitors in being accessible for all our customers. Accessibility is these areas. one of the cornerstones of all our development work, and we use external parties to check the quality of Managing customer complaints accessibility in our digital meeting places. Meeting our customers and putting For Handelsbanken, it is important that customers them in the best possible situation who lodge complaints are satisﬁed with how their THE CUSTOMER IN FOCUS through our business decisions complaints are managed. We attach great importance In ﬁnancial advisory services provided when granting generates multiple positive effects in to handling opinions and complaints in a manner that credit, recommending investments or mediating society as a whole. This contributes to the healthy conditions for private inspires trust. Thus the Bank takes customer cominsurance, the Bank always considers the customer’s enterprise and entrepreneurship in plaints very seriously, and we have well-established overall situation and ﬁnancial circumstances. Using this goal 8 and promotes the economic procedures for handling these cases. The results from knowledge, we can provide guidance on ﬁnancing, growth and development in goal 9. the EPSI and SKI surveys show that the proportion of payments or investments that is adapted to each Our work to enable our customers to meet the Bank through digital chancomplaints at Handelsbanken, for all home markets customer’s individual requirements. We focus on the nels contributes indirectly to goals 13 combined, is below the average for the sector. customer’s needs – not individual products or services. and 8, target 8.10, to promote and Advice from the Bank always prioritises the customexpand access to bank and insurance AVAILABLE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS – BOTH er’s interests. Our advice is professional, observes high services as well as financial services for everyone. LOCALLY AND DIGITALLY ethical standards and is provided in compliance with Handelsbanken attaches great importance to being current laws and regulations. available for our customers – being there whenever The aim of short-term proﬁts for the Bank must take they need us. Our customers appreciate the fact that second place to what can be considered sustainable we are local, we know them and the local market, and in the long term. With this as our starting point, the we make our business decisions there, locally together individual customer is protected from running into with the customer. At the same time, our customers ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedness, expect to be able to do their banking transactions which also beneﬁts the Bank and society at large. when and where they please. This is why we are At Handelsbanken, we do not pay performanceor continually enhancing our availability and our digital volume-based bonuses or other forms of variable meeting places – so customers can visit their branch remuneration to the Bank’s management or to any other through various digital channels, such as by phone employee who takes decisions on credits or limits. Nor or on a tablet or computer. Regardless of how our do we have volume or market share goals. customers choose to meet the Bank, the local branch is always responsible for the customer meeting – INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY whenever and wherever this takes place. In several of In its operations, a bank continuously processes sensithe Bank’s home markets, we also offer our customers tive information about customers and customer relations. personal technical support 24 hours a day. When their Handelsbanken’s work with information and IT security branch is closed, our customers in Sweden can also focuses on availability, integrity, conﬁdentiality and receive personal service from advisors by phone if traceability. The information and business systems must they need help with their banking transactions. Via be available based on the business requirements of the our personal telephone service, we can also meet our operations. All information must also be reliable, correct customers in several languages. and complete. It should never be disclosed to unauthorised persons and may only be used to the extent required Digital accessibility – on the customer’s terms by the assignment. In addition, it must be possible to Good accessibility in our digital meeting places also determine afterwards who has read or changed the means the Bank strives to provide all our customers information, when it was changed and which changes – regardless of their circumstances – with the same were made. Structured development is under way in the opportunities to access the information and services Bank to increase the level of awareness among employthat the Bank provides. This means the information ees and customers concerning the threats and risks is also accessible, for example, by people who have in information security, through presentations, training disabilities or language difﬁculties. We work continually programmes and information initiatives. to identify and remove obstacles in our digital services. Read more on page 47. When the Bank builds new services or develops existing ones, we do it based on international standards in H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 13 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY The Bank’s role in the community Handelsbanken acts in a socially responsible manner and contributes to economic development in the community by running stable, long-term banking operations that focus on customer needs. Handelsbanken is a bank with long-term stability – a bank which, regardless of the situation in the world Handelsbanken in around us, is there for our customers. As a bank with stable ﬁnances and a stable local presence, Handelsthe local community banken aims to fulﬁl its role as a responsible business We are convinced of the need for local presence, and in society. Handelsbanken also takes responsibility by the basic concept of the Bank’s way of operating is that managing risks so that as few customers as possible business decisions are made as close to the customer have payment difﬁculties. Thus, Handelsbanken can as possible, based on local information. This is why we continue to be a bank with stable ﬁnances, making a have nationwide networks – more than 800 branches positive contribution to customers, shareholders and – in the six countries we identify as our home markets. the community. Our decentralised organisation, where the local branch manager is responsible for all the Bank’s business in Accessible its local operating area, means that Handelsbanken is deeply rooted and plays a vital role in the local local branches community. An important part of the Bank’s sustainability efforts, The Bank’s local branches must also be accessible to in addition to providing banking services, is to play a customers with reduced mobility. Most of the Bank’s role in the local community through the branches. Many branches in Sweden meet these requirements, and of the branches are involved in the local community in where they are not met it is usually because of restricinitiatives and activities carried out by local associations tions on alterations to the building exterior or street and charities. For example, the branches contribute environment. Our nationwide branch network means knowledge about the economy at schools and universithat, if necessary, we can often offer customers a ties, advise young entrepreneurs, and participate in nearby branch suited to their needs. various mentor programmes. The branches also participate in activities that promote diversity and integration in the local labour market, such as offering trainee positions to recently arrived immigrants. Handelsbanken is involved in other collaborations, too, such as the Gothenburg Award for Sustainable Development, in which Handelsbanken is a corporate partner working with the City of Gothenburg and other organisations. This international prize recognises work towards sustainable development, and the prizewinners are inﬂuential role models who have gone from words to action. Lillestrøm branch | Norway Contributions to economic research and higher education Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial a number of occasions awarded grants for chair in accounting at the Stockholm School of economic research, mainly through allocations Economics and contributed to the Swedish to two independent research foundations: House of Finance (SHoF). We also support a Tore Browaldhs stiftelse and Jan Wallanders research project in which studies and analyses och Tom Hedelius stiftelse. are performed on the most important factors in Together, these foundations are some of the creating customer satisfaction and also in monimost important sources of funding for economic toring the link between loyalty and proﬁtability. research in Sweden. In 2017, 179 grants were For several years, Handelsbanken has awarded for a total of SEK 215 million. supported a project to improve young people’s At the end of 2017, the foundations’ combined knowledge of personal ﬁnance by ﬁnancially capital was SEK 7,674 million. supporting information campaigns and contributing the Bank’s expertise. H A N D E L S B A N K E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 14 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY “ The relationship between community involvement and customer satisfaction is growing stronger, especially among private customers. Customers want to do business with a bank that they perceive as fair, responsible and involved at the local level.” SKI (Swedish Quality Index) 2017. Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is customer hardest. At Handelsbanken, we have a very manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, low risk tolerance, and the Bank’s strict approach to Relevant SDGs as well as our efforts to have satisﬁed customers and risk means that we deliberately avoid high-risk transbe an attractive employer. In our own operations as actions, even if the customer is willing to pay a high well as in our business relations with external service interest rate. This low risk tolerance is maintained providers and when investing customers’ funds through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the We are convinced that a smoothly and lending to companies, we strive to prevent or limit long term and applies to all areas of the Group. The functioning bank in the local comnegative impact on human rights and working loan loss ratio provides an indication of how responmunity generates many positive conditions. sibly a bank runs its operations. When banks have a effects, promotes inclusive, long-term A bank can make a major difference in terms of negative impact on their environment, the problems are sustainable economic growth, and is part of a smoothly functioning and social responsibility towards customers, employees often due to high loan losses, or an expectation that the sustainable infrastructure. This relates and taxpayers. The most recent ﬁnancial crisis showed loan losses will rise sharply. If a bank suffers high loan to goals 8 and 9. Handelsbanken is, that unless a bank acts in a responsible manner, it is losses, most stakeholders are negatively affected. and will continue to be, a bank with not only the bank’s shareholders that run the risk of For many years, Handelsbanken has had much lower a stable financial base. When we pay being adversely affected, but customers, employees loan losses than peer banks. During the 1998–2017 taxes and fees and employ staff in the countries where we conduct operaand taxpayers, too. period, the average loan loss ratio at Handelsbanken tions, we are contributing to goal 16, was 0.06 per cent, as compared to the average of which encourages the building of Low loan losses 0.19 per cent for the ﬁve other major banks in the accountable institutions at all levels. Aggressive selling of credits which leads to an unhealthy Nordic countries: Danske Bank, DnB, Nordea, SEB level of household and corporate debt always hits the and Swedbank. Integration in the local labour market Offering internships to recently arrived her Swedish and learn how a workplace “On top of everything, they’ve done very immigrants is an activity that promotes in Sweden works,” Susanne says. well afterwards, too. And that feels good,” diversity and integration in the local A few years later, a similar query came Susanne says. labour market, notes Susanne Moström, from the Swedish Public Employment Branch Manager in Kramfors, Nordingrå Service. and Ullånger, in northern Sweden, who “When you’re caught up in your dayhas helped recently arrived immigrants to-day work, you might think it would be enter the labour force. challenging to take on a trainee, but it’s really worth it. When you pool knowledge “It started when Folkuniversitetet asked and experience like this, you get a new if the Kramfors branch would like an perspective on things,” Susanne says. intern from Sudan, a woman with a The branch keeps in touch with its business degree who would practice former interns. Susanne Moström H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 15 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Human rights At Handelsbanken, respect for and protection connected with the Bank’s role as a purchaser document how the customer’s approach to of human rights is a fundamental condition for of products and services. human rights affects their repayment capaclong-term value creation. This is true in our own To prevent and limit any negative impact on ity and reputation. operations and in operations that are associhuman rights, in the following areas Handels• Sustainability analysis is an integral part of ated with the Bank through products, services, banken works with procedures and processes the investment processes used in Handelsand business relationships. connected with the Group’s operations, banken’s fund management. Human rights Handelsbanken’s work to protect human products, or services. is included in the periodic screening of all rights is based on international norms and agree• Gender equality, diversity, and an inclusive mutual fund holdings. The handling of and ments. These are based on the UN Universal culture are cornerstones of the Bank’s human incidents concerning human rights affect Declaration of Human Rights, the International resources activities, as is systematic work the companies selected as well as those Labour Organization’s core conventions, and against discrimination, victimisation and excluded and may lead to engagement the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. harassment. through dialogue or inﬂuence voting at Handelsbanken also supports the UN Guiding • Handelsbanken has a Supplier Code of shareholders’ meetings. Principles on Business and Human Rights as well Conduct, which focuses on how factors • In 2017, the Bank’s employees completed as the Children’s Rights and Business Principles such as human rights and working conditions a mandatory training programme on ethical and, in 2009, signed the UN Global Compact. are managed and which also prohibits child standards and sustainability, which included In addition, Handelsbanken provides reports labour. In addition, we are now working in the a module on human rights. on its work against modern slavery and human Swedish operations to have all suppliers that trafﬁcking pursuant to the UK’s Modern Slavery provide facility services sign the Bank’s code For more information, please see The Bank Act. The Bank’s approach to human rights is of conduct. as an employer (page 26), The Bank’s business also regulated by policies adopted by the Bank’s • In corporate lending, project ﬁnancing, and culture (page 32), and The Bank’s indirect Board, such as the Sustainability Policy. other corporate business, we assess and impact (pages 20 and 50). We want to avoid causing any negative impact on human rights through our own operations. Nor do we want our operations or our business relations to contribute to violations of human rights. By identifying and assessing Collaboration in support of our most material risks connected with human rights, we plan to take preventive measures and children’s rights make better business decisions. If we were to Many collaborations in which Handelsbanken plays a part are intended to promote ﬁnd that we had committed violations or in the rights of children, a commitment that reflects the Bank’s principles and the some other way made a negative impact, we importance of children’s rights in society as a whole. would take corrective measures. What these initiatives have in common is the exchange of ideas, information, During the year, Handelsbanken has carried and best practices. For example, Handelsbanken is a partner in the non-profit out structured work to identify our most material risks for having a negative impact in terms of foundation Global Child Forum, an independent forum for exchanging best practices human rights. Such risks may exist in our own and facilitating discussion about children’s rights. operations – chieﬂy concerning the Bank’s Within the framework of our operations, we also work proactively to obstruct employees – but are primarily found in the and prevent payments linked to the commercial sexual exploitation of children Bank’s business operations. This applies mainly and material depicting sexual abuse of children. Handelsbanken, together with the when the Bank invests customers’ funds in Swedish Bankers’ Association, collaborates with ECPAT Sweden and is a member equities and other securities issued by compaof the Financial Coalition Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. nies with a broad range of operations and The Bank also supports the work of the World Childhood Foundation to ensure geographic locations as well as when the Bank every child’s right to a safe and happy childhood. grants credits or provides other ﬁnancial services to corporate customers. There are also risks 10,344 9,967 Reducing our environmental impact At Handelsbanken, we aim to minimise the Bank’s impact on the environment. Our direct impact derives mainly from energy consumption, business travel and transport, and use of resources such as paper. We measure our direct environmental impact in all six home markets. These markets represent 97 per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. We are working to minimise the carbon dioxide emissions generated in our operations, and tonnes CO2e our goal is to continually reduce such emissions and our environmental impact. For 2017, total carbon dioxide emissions from Handelsbanken’s operations were 9,967 tonnes, down 4 per cent from the preceding year, mainly because the Bank increased the proportion of renewable 2016 2017 electricity. Since 2013, the Bank has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 42 per cent, and Total carbon dioxide emissions total electricity consumption has decreased by 19 per cent. Read more on page 49. in the Bank’s six home markets For more information about the Bank’s work on its indirect environmental impact, such as in decreased by 4 per cent. investments and lending, please see the section titled The Bank’s indirect impact. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 16 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Services for the public good A bank’s fundamental tasks are, on the one hand, to manage the money of those who wish to postpone their spending and save their money and, on the other, to lend money to companies and households that wish to spend and invest today. Together, banks must also maintain an efﬁcient, functioning payment system, as well as managing risk. The payment systems that Handelsbanken and other banks have developed together are technically advanced and are characterised by a high degree of efﬁciency and security. Digital solutions The increased use of cards and mobile apps for executing payments is making everyday life easier for our customers while reducing our direct environmental impact. Cash services Handelsbanken also sees a growing need for new forms Our customers in Sweden can use the automatic teller of services and offers connected with digital payment machines (ATMs) owned by Bankomat, a company in solutions and has contributed to such development – which we are also an owner. These ATMs are in about often in collaboration with others. For example, Handels570 locations, and Bankomat works continually to banken in Denmark has a distribution agreement with enhance security as well as accessibility. For example, MobilePay whereby our customers can easily make when accessibility experts test dialogs in development, payments using their smartphones: between users they use a speech function for visually impaired persons. and in shops, online stores and apps. In Norway, The ATMs meet current height-to-keyboard standards Handelsbanken entered into an agreement during the and provide dialogs in different languages. As far as year with Vipps, the country’s leading app for payments. possible, ATMs are installed in well-lit, safe settings Corporate customers have access to integrated solutions where people are often present. Our private customers for tasks such as invoice processing, e-commerce who have certain types of cards can also make deposits payments and payments by mobile phone. In Sweden, via Bankomat’s ATMs in some 160 locations around Handelsbanken collaborated with other Swedish banks Sweden. In addition to withdrawals and deposits, our to develop the Swish payment service and the BankID customers can also change their PIN code and request electronic ID system. Using Swish, all of our customers in their balance at these ATMs. Sweden can quickly and simply make payments in real As a complement to ATM withdrawals, customers can time to individuals, companies, associations and organialso order banknotes – online, by phone or at branches sations that are linked to the service. Using BankID, – to pick up at a Postnord service point. Another service public authorities, organisations, companies and banks for the majority of Handelsbanken’s card customers in Sweden can identify individuals and enter into agreeis cash withdrawals in almost 1,300 ICA shops around ments with them remotely, via a computer or phone. Sweden with no purchase required. EFN shares financial knowledge GDPR boosts security At Handelsbanken, we believe that customers who are aware of and understand their Handelsbanken has strict demands on data protecﬁnancial situation are more satisﬁed customers. That is why we work continuously to tion and observes high ethical standards concernprovide our customers with the best conditions possible for making better ﬁnancial ing our customers’ business and personal data. decisions. Since 2013, Handelsbanken’s subsidiary EFN has provided ﬁnancial news How we handle and process personal data is online. EFN.se is an independent source of journalism that broadcasts programmes governed in part by current legislation – in Sweden in three areas: ﬁnancial news, personal ﬁnance and ﬁnancial markets. Through news and abroad – on the handling of personal data, reports, in-depth programmes and features, EFN explains complex subjects, relationand in part by the Swedish Banking and Financing ships and events around the world. EFN.se gives viewers the opportunity to deepen their Business Act, which regulates conﬁdentiality in knowledge of their own ﬁnances as well as broader international issues. The service is banking. free of charge and accessible by everyone via a computer, smartphone or tablet. In April 2016, the EU adopted the General In 2016 and 2017, EFN.se was voted Sweden’s best ﬁnancial news TV in the Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to regulate annual ranking of journalists carried out by Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. the processing of personal data. The purpose is EFN wishes to cover ﬁnancial news from all over Sweden and in 2017 launched to further strengthen protection of personal data programmes with local news. Currently based in Umeå, Gävle, Stockholm, Gothenand personal privacy. The GDPR will become law burg and Malmö, their goal is to cover the entire Swedish economy and business in May 2018. community. This initiative demonstrates their interest in what is happening in local Handelsbanken will appoint a Data Protection communities and promotes the use of communication technology. Ofﬁcer for the Group who will play an independent EFN.se broadcasts the most important role and monitor the Bank’s compliance. The Data news on personal ﬁnance, stock and other Protection Ofﬁcer will also liaise with the Swedish ﬁnancial markets, the business community Data Inspection Board, the designated supervisory including small and large companies, macroauthority for the new legislation. economics and international economics. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 17 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Economic value creation – our value chain THE FOUNDATION OF A BANK’S OPERATIONS lending has a long maturity – mortgage loans, for The raw material in a bank is money. The money comes example. Funding long-term lending with short-term from the capital that initially consists of the share capital deposits creates liquidity risks that may cause serious that the owners pay in when a bank is founded, but problems in the ﬁnancial system. So it is not prudent also from proﬁts generated over time and other fundto fund all lending with deposits. Handelsbanken’s ing. The funding consists of deposits and borrowing approach to funding is based on a well-structured from the public and money that the bank borrows in the balance sheet in which long-term loans to the Bank’s capital markets. In the same way as a manufacturer’s customers are ﬁnanced with stable funding. For this process for its raw materials is relevant from a sustainreason, mortgage loans are ﬁnanced by covered bonds ability perspective, important factors to consider for a of long maturity issued by Handelsbanken’s wholly owned bank include how that bank manages its capital and mortgage institution, Stadshypotek. By always mainhow it works with funding. taining a balance sheet that is structured to safeguard the Bank’s commitments to customers Capital To ensure that banks are sufﬁciently resistant to the and investors, Handelsbanken acts responsibly in its role as a major player in “A well-run bank that acts risks arising in their operations, but also to protect the ﬁnancial system. It is vital that banks sustainably and responsibly customers’ assets and interests, the public authorities have a solid long-term funding strategy have established capital requirements. These are rules so they avoid running short of liquidity, a has a substantial positive for the minimum amount of capital a bank must have situation in which they might not be able impact on the economy in in order to run its operations. If a bank wants to meet to fulﬁl their undertakings to customers customers’ future loan requirements and be able to do with money on deposit and to other general.” more business, it must have sufﬁcient capital for its providers of funding. current business volume and enough capital to continue to grow. From the customer’s viewpoint, it is particularly VALUE CREATION IN 2017 important that the bank has resources available in It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does the times of ﬁnancial turmoil, as in the early 1990s or during proﬁt generate tax revenue for the community and a the ﬁnancial crisis that peaked in 2008–2009. If a bank return for shareholders, but a large proportion of the makes substantial losses, its shareholders may have proﬁt is reinvested in the operations. That means the to contribute more share capital through a new share bank can grow and meet customers’ future needs, issue, which may be difﬁcult in such circumstances. such as for loans. One condition for customers putting money in a bank Since 1973, in every year but three, Handelsbanken is that they have conﬁdence in the bank. A bank that has allocated part of the Bank’s proﬁts to the employeedoes not meet its customers’ expectations risks an owned proﬁt-sharing foundation Oktogonen. One conoutﬂow of deposits when the crisis is at its peak. If the dition for the allocation is that Handelsbanken meets its outﬂow is large, the bank’s survival could be jeopardised. Outﬂows of savings that customers have invested in mutual funds, insurance and other types of saving not used for the operations’ own funding are not as grave. Nevertheless, they can signiﬁcantly harm the bank’s earnings capacity, perhaps leading to problems. Funding in capital markets For a large part of deposits, customers can withdraw money from their account at any time. But much bank CounterRating at LongShortparty risk 31 December 2017 term term assessment Standard & Poor’s AAA-1+ Fitch AA F1+ Moody’s Aa2 P-1 Aa1 DBRS AA (low) H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 18 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken’s profitability benefits society at large as well as the Bank’s shareholders. Handelsbanken is one of the few Nordic banks that has not sought financial support from central banks or taxpayers in modern times. corporate goal. Each employee receives an equal part STABLE THROUGH THE FINANCIAL CRISIS of the allocated amount. The Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing During the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken foundation is described in more detail on page 54. did not use the Swedish government’s capital support In 2017, Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes and or guarantee programme. Nor has Handelsbanken government fees was more than SEK 26 billion. This received capital support in any other country where created value was distributed as follows: over SEK 10 the Bank operates. Handelsbanken is the only listed billion in taxes and government fees, SEK 14.6 billion Swedish bank that did not need to ask its shareholders in proposed dividends, to be paid to the shareholders for fresh capital during the ﬁnancial crisis. in the spring of 2018, and the remaining amount A well-run bank that acts sustainably and responsibly reinvested in the operations. has a substantial positive impact on the economy in general. This applies not only to direct economic effects HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER such as paying corporate tax, but also to the indirect For Handelsbanken, tax is an important sustainability effects. topic. We contribute to the community in the countries where the Bank operates, by paying taxes and governDIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE ment fees and by paying taxes to local tax authorities During the most recent business cycle, Handelsbanken on behalf of employees and customers. The section on paid dividends to its shareholders every year, while taxes in the Bank’s policy for sustainability is one of the remaining one of the largest payers of corporate tax in starting points for work with tax-related matters in the Sweden. Bank. The Bank also has a guideline for managing taxes that describes Handelsbanken’s co-ordinated manageINDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS ment, governance and follow-up of tax-related matters. Through its lending to companies in the Bank’s six home We maintain an open dialogue with the tax authorities markets, Handelsbanken helps ﬁnance growth and in the countries where we operate. In addition, Handelsincreased employment. Handelsbanken is the largest banken adheres to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational player in terms of lending to companies in Sweden. By Enterprises, whose purpose is to encourage and facilienabling households to ﬁnance home purchases, the tate corporate sustainability. In the UK, Handelsbanken Bank helps them move to locations with, for example, has adopted the code of conduct for banks issued better employment prospects. The Handelsbanken by HM Revenue & Customs, the UK tax authority. Group ﬁnances almost one quarter of household Handelsbanken also publishes a summary of the mortgage loans in Sweden. Bank’s guidelines for managing taxes, in compliance with guidance from HM Revenue & Customs on making public corporate tax strategy. Distribution of economic value For many years, Handelsbanken has been one of the largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. In addition to corporate tax, Handelsbanken also pays substantial 40 amounts in social security contributions and other taxes. Historically, it has been the largest payer to the 35 Swedish resolution reserve (formerly the Stability Fund) for the ﬁnancial system and one of the largest payers to 30 Reinvested economic value the state deposit guarantee scheme. Another signiﬁcant Dividends (refers to the year expense for Handelsbanken is value-added tax (VAT), 25 dividends were paid) because the Bank cannot recover all input VAT that it Fees for the Swedish resolution pays when buying external products and services. This 20 reserve is an effect of the fact that a large part of our business Corporate tax, net is not subject to VAT, i.e. the Bank’s customers do 15 (current tax and deferred tax) not pay VAT on ﬁnancial services. For 2017, HandelsSuppliers banken’s total taxes and government fees exceed 10 SEK 10 billion (8). In addition to the taxes relating to the Social security costs Bank’s own operations, Handelsbanken reports and 5 Provision to profit-sharing foundation including social SEK bn pays substantial amounts to the tax authorities in the countries where it operates, on behalf of its customers security costs 0 and employees. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Salaries H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 19 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT The Bank’s indirect impact Handelsbanken primarily contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals indirectly, through its business operations, by granting credits to households and companies and by making investments on behalf of customers. Responsible lending Credits to households and companies are Handelsrights and fundamental principles of working conditions banken’s core business. The Bank considers it vital that and environmental considerations, and supports antiRelevant SDGs lending be based on an assessment of the individual corruption measures, regardless of where in the world customer’s repayment capacity, so the Bank does not the Bank operates. The Bank supports international grant credit to customers who cannot repay their loans. initiatives and guidelines with the common aim of A weak repayment capacity can never be justiﬁed by encouraging and facilitating corporate sustainability. arguments that the customer is prepared to pay a high Thus, in our lending we must assess and evaluate each interest rate or can offer the Bank good collateral. The customer’s stance on these principles and guidelines. Bank’s view of lending protects the individual customer Ultimately, this can result in the Bank declining credit from running into ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive to companies that do not apply these principles. When Handelsbanken contributes to the indebtedness – which also beneﬁts the Bank and assessing creditworthiness, we take into account factors Sustainable Development Goals society at large. such as how environmental risks affect the customer’s primarily indirectly, through the financial services and products in repayment capacity. Such risks might include the our core business. Lending and DECENTRALISED DECISIONS customer being unable to sell its product or the risk financing, such as through green Decision-making at Handelsbanken is strictly decenthat more stringent environmental regulations on the loans, contribute to goals 9, 11, and tralised to the local branch. Each branch has its own customer’s manufacturing process might damage the 13. In the management of mutual funds, pension funds and other area of operations which constitutes the branch’s local company’s repayment capacity. The branch which is assets, our products are clearly market, and that gives Handelsbanken a distinct local responsible for the customer assesses the credit risk. linked with several SDGs, such as 5, presence in all markets where the Bank operates. Thus, the branch also assesses how factors such as 8, 9, 13 and 16. Taking important business decisions face-to-face environmental risks or the customer’s approach to in discussion with the customer is a sound basis for human rights will affect the customer’s repayment successful customer meetings. This creates close, capacity. All this is part of the business evaluation, long-term relationships with our customers. the Bank’s method for evaluating a customer. The business evaluation is an effective method for branches to PRINCIPLES WHEN GRANTING CREDIT identify and assess risks. Sustainability aspects are a vital part of the Bank’s It also provides good documentation for higher levels credit policy. The policy states that the Bank’s lending in the Bank when they must evaluate credit risk and must be responsible and meet high demands for sound monitor that branches are taking into account sustainethical standards. Handelsbanken respects human ability criteria when assessing credit risk. Sustainability overview The sustainability overview is available at handelsbanken.se/sustainability and shows how a sustainability perspective is applied in the Bank’s lending to companies. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 20 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT For a long time, Handelsbanken has taken a restrictive approach to risk. This risk culture and expertise on the “ Handelsbanken considers it vital that part of the staff is best maintained and developed in the Bank’s lending is responsible and is day-to-day work and learning at the branches. Handelsbanken considers it vital that the Bank’s lendbased on a thorough assessment of the ing is responsible and is based on a thorough assessment of the customer’s repayment capacity. In 2017, customer’s repayment capacity.” we updated procedures for assessing sustainability risk in connection with lending to companies. The changes consist of a clearer, more transparent approach to sustainability in the credit process. The procedures contain EXPOSURE TO CLIMATE RISK expanded assessment and documentation of sustainThe production of energy using fossil fuels ability aspects and cover the majority of credit limit accounts for a high proportion of greenvolumes granted to companies in the Bank. New house gas emissions. Fulﬁlling SDG 13, instructions have been drawn up to serve as expanded Climate action, requires a transition to guidance for the branches in their work assessing energy production based on renewable sources. sustainability risk when granting credit. The branches A screening of the Bank’s lending at 30 June 2017 have also been given tools to help with assessment as shows that loans to energy production represent only well as documentation. For example, branches and about 1 per cent of total loans to the public. Of this credit departments now have access to independent lending to energy, in turn, about 12 per cent was analyses to help them make their own assessments. In to production based on fossil fuels, about 7 per cent addition, special training has been conducted involving to nuclear power, and about 81 per cent to energy all employees who work with lending to companies. produced from renewable sources. Loans to the public 2017 Loans to the public 2017 Geographical distribution Sector Sweden 63.7% Private individuals 50.3% Norway 11.9% Property management 27.3% 2,066 bn UK Finland 10.4% 6.1% 2,066 bn companies Corporates Housing co-operative 11.7% 10.0% Denmark 4.8% associations The Netherlands 2.0% Sovereigns and 0.7% Other countries 1.1% municipalities Total: SEK 2,066 bn Total: SEK 2,066 bn Green financing Green loans at Handelsbanken over time. Technical criteria have Swedish government’s inquiry to In 2017, Handelsbanken launched been developed to ensure that the identify ways to promote the market green loans for buildings. Worldwide environment and climate are taken for green bonds, whose final report the real estate sector accounts for a into consideration when a green was presented on 10 January 2018. very large proportion of energy conloan is used to finance buildings, Handelsbanken has also joined sumption and – directly and indirectly and Handelsbanken continuously the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), – for a large proportion of global monitors each project financed with which plays an important role in the emissions of greenhouse gases. To a green loan. continued existence and development minimise the long-term negative of this product in international capital impact from the real estate sector, Green bonds markets. The market is growing fast, it is vitally important that new and Interest in green bonds continues to and a volume close to SEK 80 billion old buildings consume less energy grow. Handelsbanken Capital Markets was issued by Nordic borrowers during and that new buildings and major is very active as an advisor to new the year, representing growth of 49 per renovations take into account the and existing issuers of green bonds, in cent. During the year, Handelsbanken environment and climate through the formulating terms and conditions as Capital Markets was advisor to almost sound choice of materials, low energy well as in issuing green bonds. During one third of the borrowers who issued consumption and proper operation the year, Handelsbanken participated green bonds for the first time in the and maintenance of the building in working groups connected to the Swedish market. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 21 “ Our goal is to generate long-term returns, which requires that we invest in a sustainable, responsible manner.” Responsible investment Handelsbanken is entrusted by its customers to HOW WE APPROACH OUR WORK AS manage their savings capital in the optimum way. Our A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Inclusion goal is to generate long-term returns, which requires In day-to-day operations, our work for responsible We integrate sustainability in our investment decisions. that we invest in a sustainable, responsible manner. investment may take different approaches depending Thus responsible investment is a vital condition for on whether the activity is choosing individual compaachieving our goal of generating long-term returns. nies to invest in or choosing mutual funds to include in Exclusion We do this by integrating sustainability in our investour fund portfolios or insurance or pension-related We exclude companies whose business ment process and offering a wide range of mutual offerings. The choice of asset class and management operations are incompatible with our policies for responsible investment funds and other savings, pension and insurance focus also inﬂuences the approach. Handelsbanken’s and companies which do not meet the products that meet customers’ expectations. fund managers integrate environmental, social and specific sustainability criteria of our corporate governance criteria with ﬁnancial criteria to Criteria range. OUR APPROACH TO ENGAGEMENT establish a better basis for decision-making in the Engagement with companies in which we are shareholdinvestment process. Engagement ers is an important way for us to contribute to sustainable We engage with companies through development. This includes both proactive dialogue dialogue to influence them to comply aimed at inﬂuencing companies to improve their sustainwith international norms and conventions. We also take a proactive ability activities as well as engagement with companies approach to influence companies to which we have identiﬁed as not compliant with the improve their preventive work in the international norms and conventions that we respect. field of sustainability. We engage with companies through dialogue in Engagement and dialogues various ways: • direct contacts between asset managers and companies • together with other investors and through sectorEnvironmental issues 34% wide initiatives. Social issues 44% Corporate governance 7% To complement ongoing efforts to integrate sustainOverlapping areas of 15% ability in our investment research, all holdings of listed sustainability equities and corporate bonds are screened. The purpose of this screening is to identify companies that do not comply with international norms and conventions. We also engage with companies based on the themes and sustainability risks we identify. We conduct such Total: 251 dialogues dialogues either on our own or through international collaboration such as PRI and CDP. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 22 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT N ENMÄR K PRODUCTS WITH SPECIFIC SUSTAINABILITY of the Bank’s Criteria funds – Handelsbanken Hållbar S VA E T CRITERIA Energi (Sustainable Energy) – was certiﬁed as ‘SvanenStructured products märkt’, demonstrating that the fund fulﬁls the Nordic In 2017, Handelsbanken issued its ﬁrst equity-linked Swan environmental certiﬁcation’s 25 mandatory criteria bonds based on the 17 Sustainable Development for sustainable investment. The purpose of the certiﬁFond 3101 0010 Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN. The equity-linked cation is to make it easier for consumers to choose bonds track indexes that are exposed to companies sustainable funds. that, through their behaviour and their products, contribute to the SDGs. Percentage of Handelsbanken’s total fund volume Additionally, in 2017 Handelsbanken issued 12 more in Criteria funds 2014–2017 equity-linked bonds focused on sustainability and climate % of fund volume factors. The total value of these products exceeded 35 SEK 170 million. 30 32% 31% Criteria funds 25 Handelsbanken also offers funds that adhere to spe20 ciﬁc sustainability criteria in their investment strategy, for example, excluding investments in controversial 15 17% businesses such as alcohol, armaments, pornography, 10 12% tobacco, gambling products and services and fossil 5 fuels. These funds also exclude companies that are 0 regarded as contravening international norms and 2014 2015 2016 2017 conventions. The Bank now offers a total of 24 mutual funds with speciﬁc sustainability criteria. The range comprises index funds, actively managed equity CLIMATE-RELATED SCENARIO ANALYSIS funds, ﬁxed income funds and an allocation fund with Together with the 2° Investing Initiative, a special investment focus – all under the name of Handelsbanken has performed an initial Criteria. At year-end, the total assets managed in these analysis of the Bank’s mutual funds based funds were SEK 220.6 billion, accounting for more than on a two-degree scenario. The analysis 32 per cent of the total fund volume, up 3 percentage targets investments in three sectors: energy production, points. The fund volume is based on Handelsbanken’s automotive manufacturing, and extraction of fossil own mutual funds in the Nordic market and mutual fuels. The overall results show that Handelsbanken’s funds managed by Optimix (the Netherlands). mutual funds are well aligned with the two-degree When the Nordic Swan environmental certiﬁcation target and conﬁrm that the climate issue is an integral for mutual funds was launched in October 2017, one part of our fund management operations. Index funds that comply with sustainability requirements Choosing the right index is essential conventions on the environment, social previously the case. In the future, we when working with sustainability in issues and corporate governance. hope to continue improving our engageindex funds. “As a global asset manager, we ment process and also to further integrate have chosen to work together with the Sustainable Development Goals in “Sustainability-oriented indexes can be international index providers such as our asset management,” Emma says. used to exclude companies that don’t MSCI. We have engaged in dialogue on comply with Handelsbanken’s sustainsustainability from a Nordic perspective ability policy,” says Emma Viotti, Head of and initiated the development of more Responsible Investment at Xact Kapitalsustainable indexes for the United förvaltning. States, Europe and emerging markets. During the year, extensive efforts Thus all our international index funds were made to spur the development of now comply with our sustainability more indexes that exclude companies requirements – not just the sustainthat violate international norms and ability-oriented Criteria funds, as was Emma Viotti H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 7 23 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT AND THE Gender equality working for sustainable palm oil production. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Womenomics is a recurring theme Through dialogue we can inﬂuence companies During 2017, Handelsbanken actively worked to in several of our mutual funds to work towards the fulﬁlment of goal 8, decent integrate the Sustainable Development Goals in and contributes to goal 5, gender work and economic growth. In 2017, we had its operations. As an asset manager and insurequality. This theme aims to increase the number such a dialogue with a Nordic company conance company, Handelsbanken can contribute of women in the workplace and in leadership cerning the purchase of sustainable palm oil to through the mutual funds and products that positions. In many Western countries, women increase the proportion of certiﬁed oil. we offer our customers as well as through our are a well-educated but under-utilised resource. investments and our efforts as asset owners Japan is an obvious example: the proportion of Climate action and managers to inﬂuence others. gainfully employed women must increase if the One important contribution to the One of the investment processes is based on economy is to continue growing. The governClimate action goal (SDG 13) is to thematic investing. Thematic investing is a way ment has pursued various reforms, such as invest in solutions for a sustainable of identifying external changes with a long-term expanding pre-school capacity and requiring energy system. In several of our actively managed impact on companies’ proﬁtability. stricter disclosure of statistics related to gender funds, energy efﬁciency has long been an equality. Our investments in the Womenomics investment theme. theme beneﬁt from these structural changes. During the year, Handelsbanken Liv expanded the proportion of mutual funds which The environment and working it offers that avoid investments in fossil fuels, conditions from 14 per cent to 21 per cent. Also, compared Production of palm oil is one sector to 2016, in 2017 we offered more mutual funds with signiﬁcant sustainability risk in that invest in solutions contributing to sustainterms of the environment and working condiable development. In the traditionally managed tions. Our basic position is that companies that portfolios, Handelsbanken Liv contributes buy palm oil must buy oil that is certiﬁed by the to reducing climate impact by investing in Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). equity funds that exclude fossil fuels or take a The RSPO is an organisation of diverse stakerestrictive approach to coal and by increasing holders – producers, consumers, NGOs – investment in green bonds. Opportunities for healthy returns – in a responsible way A growing number of people not only The careful selection of products and ours at Handelsbanken, so there are want their savings to grow but also to service providers is the foundation of more mutual funds to invest in. For contribute to a sustainable world. qualitative asset management. example, in 2017 we’ve taken part in a Johann Guggi, Chief Investment Officer “We choose each product that we dialogue about the construction of a at Handelsbanken, relates how Asset judge will contribute to the portfolio’s new global fund with an ESG* focus. Management works with sustainability return and risk profile in the best way. If The fund’s transparent and obvious in their multi-asset portfolios, which two products are judged to be equivalent, sustainability focus has convinced our invest chiefly in mutual funds instead then we always choose the product that fund portfolios to invest in the fund,” of directly in companies. is more sustainable,” Johann says. Johann says. Twice a year, all holdings are screened “Our daily tasks revolve around incorto identify any company behaviour that porating sustainability as a natural conflicts with the international norms part of our investment processes and and conventions supported by Asset influencing companies, index providers Management, for example, in human and fund managers to work towards rights and business ethics. sustainability.” “We also try to persuade other fund management companies to take an * Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG). approach to sustainability similar to Johann Guggi 24 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT Sustainability declaration SWESIF’s sustainability declaration for funds makes it easier for customers to compare and read more about how each fund applies sustainability criteria in their investment process. The declaration (sustainability proﬁle) is a standardised fact sheet produced by the sector organisation SWESIF together with its corporate members. The proﬁles are available at the Bank’s website and in our apps. Each proﬁle includes the fund’s sustainability rating, which is based on Morningstar’s Sustainability Rating and measures how well the companies in which the fund is invested manage sustainability compared with other funds in the same category. MORE INFORMATION For more information, please see handelsbanken.se/csreng and Equity and credit research handelsbanken.se/responsibleinvestments. At Handelsbanken we are working to increasingly There you will ﬁnd policies and documents such as: • Sustainability overview, which shows how a sustainability integrate our sustainability work with the equity and perspective is applied in the Bank’s lending to companies. credit research that we offer professional investors • Corporate governance policy and policy for responsible who are our institutional customers. In 2017, the investment for Handelsbanken Fonder. Bank took a big step and published sustainability • Corporate governance policy and policy for responsible investment for Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB. research on about 200 Nordic listed companies, to • Handelsbanken Liv’s policy for responsible investment scrutinise the companies from a sustainability viewand policy for sustainability. point and to discuss the challenges and opportunities • Examples of companies we are engaged with through dialogue. the companies face. The goal of our sustainability • Examples of companies that we exclude. research is to examine information in a standardised • Information brochure about. way with a sustainability perspective and to enable Responsible Investment. • List of carbon footprints for peer comparisons of companies. Handelsbanken’s equity funds. Collaboration Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development and initiatives for sustainability in asset management Read more on page 38. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 7 25 The Bank as an employer At Handelsbanken, we constantly strive for our corporate culture, with its decentralised working methods and belief in the individual, to be integral to our operations. This applies no matter where in the world Handelsbanken opens new branches. In 2017, Handelsbanken had more than 11,800 employees, working in over 20 countries, of whom more than 40 per cent were employed outside Sweden. Varberg branch | Sweden THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER AN ATTRACTIVE, LONG-TERM EMPLOYER daily work, where all our employees are responsible Handelsbanken’s concept of how to run a successful for continual development – their own and that of the Relevant SDGs bank is based on trust and respect for the individual – operations. Learning on a daily basis is supplemented both customers and employees. by various training activities, including annual training Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about on ethical standards and sustainability, which contains relationships with other people. It does not matter how an anti-corruption module, and training to counter Handelsbanken must be a company good the products or services are if the Bank does money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. These trainwhere women and men can contribnot have the most suitable staff. When we recruit new ing courses are mandatory for all employees in the ute their knowledge and ability on employees, we seek people who share the Bank’s core Group. It is important that employees have the skills they equal terms and have opportunities values and who contribute their diverse experiences need to help our customers in the best way possible, to develop their leadership skills at all decision levels, goal 5, target 5.5. and perspectives. For us, it is vital that employees are to provide advice based on customers’ needs, and to As an employer, we must also driven by putting the customer ﬁrst, enjoy taking a large comply with the current policies and regulations. promote a safe and secure work amount of individual responsibility, and want to take The employees and the business can move forward environment for all our employees, their own initiatives. together because all employees play an active role in goal 8, target 8.8. The Bank continues to have low external staff turnformulating their own unit’s business plan each year. over: 4.7 per cent in the Group and 3.9 per cent in After the plan is set, individual competency mapping, Sweden. A pre-condition for this is a healthy, inclusive planning dialogues and performance reviews are work environment where each employee’s potential is carried out, linking the business operations’ goals made the most of and each individual is able to develop with each employee’s goals. The result is an individual in their work based on their ability and personal action plan for each employee which is followed up circumstances. regularly during the year and then forms the basis of Handelsbanken’s guidelines for employees are based an annual salary dialogue review between employee on the Bank’s corporate culture, working methods, and and manager. fundamental view of people. Dialogue and trust are fundamental to people working together at HandelsINTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND CULTURAL banken. If this were to break down and an employee AMBASSADORS were to suspect some form of internal fraud or other Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture and values irregularity, the Bank has an established system for are vital to our success. Due to the Bank’s decentralised whistleblowing in which the employee can make a working methods, employees take a large amount of report anonymously. The system for whistleblowing is personal responsibility, are given a mandate to take described on the Bank’s intranet, where it is accessible their own decisions, and are driven by putting the to all Handelsbanken employees. customer in focus. During their period of employment, employees have the opportunity to develop within CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT different professional roles, to work in different areas of Handelsbanken’s strength is derived from the comthe Bank, and also to work in different countries where bined expertise of our employees. When employees the Bank conducts its operations. Internal mobility develop, the Bank develops. The most important contributes to both the working methods and culture source of increased professionalism is learning in our being spread to all parts of the operations, so internal recruitment and long-term employment are important to us. The Wheel – interaction between the Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemplary operations and the employees ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culture, which explains why most managers are recruited internally. In 2017, 97 per cent of all managers in Sweden were recruited internally. For the Group as a whole, the Business plan corresponding ﬁgure was 92 per cent. process Business planning A structured approach to management succession planning is crucial in satisfying the current and future demand for managers at the Bank. One of the most 92% Salary dialogue PLUS important tasks for managers at the Bank is to identify, review CUSTOMER encourage and develop new managers in operations. To further strengthen management succession, preparInternal recruitment atory programmes are arranged for manager candidates of managers before their ﬁrst leadership assignment in the Bank. Group Individual Action For newly appointed managers at the Bank, Groupfollow-up planning wide management training is conducted with the aim of inspiring and developing them to lead with a focus on customers and based on our values and our culture. Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships with 97% The Wheel reflects the relationship between the operations and the employee’s development. Managers and employunions are a valuable component of the Bank’s culture. ees work together to create their own unit’s operational There is an ongoing, close dialogue between union plan each year. After the plan is set, planning dialogues representatives or employee representatives and manand performance reviews are carried out, linking the business operations’ goals with each employee’s goals. The agers concerning operations – such as when changes result is that all employees have an individual action plan and new services are to be launched – where valuable which is followed up regularly during the year and forms information is exchanged from the very early stages. the basis of a salary dialogue review between employee Internal recruitment and manager. As well as matters dealt with in a dialogue with of managers the union organisations and other types of employee Sweden H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 28 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER Internal leadership development After a few years at Handelsbanken’s It was at the end of 2015 that Kathrine’s meet your colleagues and exchange branch in Give, in southern Denmark, manager at the time, together with her experiences,” she says. Kathrine Vesterager Andersen was HR manager, encouraged her to apply ready for new challenges. In Handelsfor the one-year programme. banken’s preparatory programme for “We learned more about everything – manager candidates, she acquired the from Handelsbanken’s concept and basic knowledge she needed for her decentralised working method, to first leadership assignment in the Bank. how we as employees handle the huge responsibility embodied in our “I was able to combine personal and customers’ trust,” she says. Kathrine has professional development at the same been the Branch Manager in Give since time as I gained broader insight into our summer 2017. business model and more understand“The new network I gained through ing of what is required to take on the role the programme was one of the biggest of manager,” she says. benefits. You learn so much when you Kathrine Vesterager Andersen organisations in each country, there is also HandelsThrough goal-oriented work, the gender balance has banken’s European Works Council (EWC), which serves been improved in different roles and realised in several as a forum for joint and cross-border questions in the groups. countries in Europe where the Group has operations. In 2017, a group comprising representatives from the For gender equality and diversity Bank and employee representatives from the European Our work with gender equality continues, with various Works Council carried out work aimed at improving and measures aimed at making Handelsbanken an even streamlining the ﬂow of information related to issues more gender-equal company. Training is carried out that concern multiple countries. within the organisation to increase awareness of how social and cultural norms affect attitudes and behaviour LOCAL COMMITMENT in everyday life. During the year, in Sweden we continued It is important that those who work at branches have our gender and diversity training for members of managenatural links to, and good knowledge of, the town and ment teams, employees in human resources and trade local market. The branch’s manager and staff are union representatives. Other examples may be found involved in the local community. In the Bank’s home in the UK, where all managers are taking professional markets, the majority of managers and employees development courses on how unconscious prejudices work and live in the local community where their affect us, and Finland, where gender equality and branch does business. diversity are being integrated in all internal leadership development and the orientation course for new hires. GENDER EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE Gender equality, diversity and an inclusive corporate “ Several of the Bank’s managers and employees culture are part of our core values and must be a are active in various external mentor pronatural and integral part of our daily work. This entails grammes and networks to contribute to activimaking the most of the employees’ combined potential, and of broadening the recruitment base to become, ties that promote integration and diversity.” to an even greater extent, a bank that reﬂects the community in which we operate. Diversity encompasses During the year, a Group-wide Diversity Council – a various individuals’ different backgrounds, skills and forum for gender equality and diversity – was formed work experience as well as different ways of thinking with members from the management teams of all home and solving problems. markets, Handelsbanken Capital Markets, Group IT Handelsbanken’s gender equality goal is to be and Group HR. Its aim is to ensure our long-term focus a company where women and men have the same and development in this area and to circulate good opportunities and conditions to shape the Bank and examples. their own career. In all countries where we operate, a In 2017, the Swedish operations worked on how gender equality plan must be formulated to support the we can, in different parts of the Bank, promote greater Group’s gender equality goals. The plan must be based diversity, contribute to an inclusive culture and counteract on Handelsbanken’s core values and take into account the risk of discrimination. For example, the recruitment the laws and guidelines that apply in the country. One process has been reﬁned, and work on gender equality aim of this is to create an even gender balance within and diversity is now integrated in our systematic work different professional roles, working groups and units. environment efforts. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 29 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER All around Sweden, the Bank offers internships for to a positive work environment. An ongoing, daily recently arrived immigrants. Our aim is to help improve dialogue between managers and employees makes opportunities for getting established through different it possible to detect early signs of poor health and to types of co-operation. ensure the work situation is sustainable in the long run. All types of discrimination, harassment and victimEach manager is responsible for performing regular isation are unacceptable at Handelsbanken, as made work environment surveys, based on our health factors, clear in the Group-wide guidelines for employees. with their employees and union representative or Handelsbanken’s HR departments are responsible employee representative. These include topics relating for investigating and dealing with any cases reported to the physical and psychosocial work environment, inside the Bank together with the responsible manager. security, gender equality, diversity and inclusiveness. For many years, the Bank has had an effective incident Based on the results, managers and employees formureporting system. It includes work environment incidents late a work environment plan containing activities to which are followed up continually. Any case reported maintain and develop a positive, health-promoting to the national discrimination ombudsman or a corrework environment and to counteract health risks. The sponding ofﬁcial body is followed up at Group level. plan is then integrated with the business plan and, in this way, becomes a natural part of how the operation GENDER-EQUAL SALARIES AT HANDELSBANKEN develops. The Bank is working to rectify unwarranted pay differIn each work group, the planned activities are entials between women and men. In Sweden this work regularly followed up to evaluate and continuously has advanced for several years in co-operation with improve the Bank’s efforts for the work environment the union organisations, so it is now an integral part of and health. Every country and department regularly ordinary business operations. The Bank and the union monitors their work environment, sickness absence organisations work together to safeguard the results rate and reported incidents for all employees in a joint achieved and to closely monitor trends in gender-equal health and safety forum involving employee and salaries within the Bank. Managers at the Bank have a employer representatives. mandate and the tools to correct any differentials that Guidelines and procedures help in dealing with and are discovered, and every year all salaries are mapped providing support in cases of poor health, sickness or by the Bank to act on any differentials that have arisen. crisis situations. If additional expertise is needed, the Bank has special agreements with external service HEALTH AND WORK ENVIRONMENT providers. Handelsbanken’s guidelines for the health and work All managers attend ongoing skills development in environment describe how we continuously improve our this area. For example, in 2017 activities were carried work environment and the conditions for good health. out aimed at raising awareness of the importance of a Our overall goal for the work environment is that employgood organisational and social work environment for ees should be able to enjoy good health, develop on a health and work capacity. personal level and function in an optimal way. The efforts are based on a number of health factors with the aim of CULTURE AND ACTIVITIES achieving our work environment goal. All employees Handelsbanken offers a large number of subsidised are responsible for their own health and for contributing health-promotion and recreational activities. We have a long tradition of clubs, societies and the like and a rich variety of activities. One sports and leisure association in Sweden dates back to 1919 and has almost 4,400 members. Finland and Denmark have corresponding Health and work environment at associations. Handelsbanken There is also an art association with more than 3,700 members and the Handelsbanken Historical Association, whose aim is to spread knowledge about Security Respect and preserve the Bank’s cultural heritage. Within the Group, numerous health-promoting activities have been organised during the year, one Pride Balance aim being to increase everyday physical activity and Enjoy good health reinforce our sense of community. In Sweden, more Develop on a personal level than 3,700 employees participated during the year. Function in an optimal way Competency Communication Staff magazine The staff magazine Remissan started in 1948 – for, about and by the employees of Handelsbanken. Remissan’s Physical work Safety task is to create a sense of community, belonging and environment commitment among the employees and to reﬂect the culture throughout the Group. In the autumn, Remissan Handelsbanken’s overall goals for health and the work environbecame a digital website. The new format was conceived ment is that employees should be able to enjoy good health, after a Group-wide survey, taking into consideration develop on a personal level, and function in an optimal way. the wishes of employees as regards content and Our efforts for the work environment focus on several health availability. Both Englishand Swedish-language factors that collectively provide the conditions for a positive, secure and inclusive work environment. versions of the site are accessible to all current and retired employees of the Group. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 30 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER “Handelsbanken’s concept of how to run a successful bank is based on trust and respect for the individual – both customers and employees.” COLLABORATIONS WITH YOUNG PEOPLE OKTOGONEN FOUNDATION Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations with One condition for achieving the Bank’s corporate schools, universities and colleges that are an important goal of better proﬁtability than the average of peer part of its long-term employer branding work. For banks in its home markets is that the Bank’s employees example, we participate in training courses, contribute outperform their peers in the rest of the sector. In every our competency and experience, and offer opportuniyear but three since 1973, Handelsbanken has allocated ties for internships that give students experience and part of the Bank’s proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for contact with workplaces. Each summer, many students its employees. The funds are managed by the Oktogonen work at the Bank as temporary staff, which contributes Foundation. to Handelsbanken’s development as well as that of the Allocations are subject to Handelsbanken achieving students. its corporate goal. Each employee receives an equal Student degree thesis projects are another valuable part of the allocated amount, regardless of their position, way of exchanging knowledge. Several of the Bank’s form of employment or tasks. The proﬁt-sharing scheme managers and employees are active in various external is long-term, as payments cannot be made until the mentor programmes and networks to contribute to age of 60. Of the Group’s employees, 98 per cent are activities that promote integration and diversity. now covered by Oktogonen. For many years, the proﬁt-sharing foundation has Handelsbanken’s Student Programme been one of the Bank’s largest shareholders, and Handelsbanken has Student Programmes in Sweden Oktogonen nominates two representatives for election and Norway aimed at young people studying at to the Board of Handelsbanken. Since Oktogonen’s university or college. The students participate in the board is made up of representatives from an employee Bank’s programme in parallel with their studies. The organisation, the employees have the opportunity to aim of the programme is to attract and recruit young inﬂuence the election of Handelsbanken’s Board. employees as part of Handelsbanken’s future management succession, and to promote gender equality and diversity. The programme includes the student working at the Bank during their student years, having their own action plan and receiving the internal training relevant for them to develop at Handelsbanken. Student Programme Through Handelsbanken’s Student School of Economics, in Bergen, and works making the most of my skills, and I feel that, Programme, young people have an at the Åsane branch. by taking the initiative and responsibility, opportunity to combine their studies In the Student Programme, Torbjørn there are so many opportunities to with an internship. Torbjørn Schjøtt Lie has been able to work at three different develop at Handelsbanken,” Torbjørn says. is one of about 50 students participating branches and meet new people with in Norway. With the help of an individual varied experience and backgrounds. At action plan and internal training, he the same time, thanks to his individual and his fellow interns aim to develop action plan and learning on a daily basis, themselves at Handelsbanken in parallel he has been able to start acquiring the with their studies. knowledge that an advisor needs. “I’ve gained good insight into the opera“This gives me work experience as well as tions at several branches and been able to an opportunity to influence my personal build up a valuable network. My colleagues development and prepare for a career at are teaching me about the Bank’s culture Handelsbanken after I graduate,” says and how the customer’s needs are always Torbjørn, who studies at the Norwegian our starting point. It’s great that the Bank’s Torbjørn Schjøtt Lie H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 17 31 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE The Bank’s business culture Handelsbanken’s success depends on the confidence of our customers and society at large. This confidence is based on us acting according to high ethical standards and taking responsibility for long-term sustainable development. Corporate philosophy Handelsbanken manages large amounts of capital, and it is important we do it properly. Conﬁdence in the Bank and our operations is based on ethical actions and high moral standards in everything we do. Each employee’s actions are important for the success of the Bank. The Bank has great conﬁdence in and respect for all its employees. When we recruit new employees, we seek people who share the Bank’s fundamental values. This means that we act with care, sound judgement and common sense – we quite simply do things we can stand by. We have strict demands on good administrative order in the Bank. By doing things the right way the ﬁrst time, we reduce the risk and cost of correcting things later. Instead, we can devote time and emphasis on making our customers even more satisﬁed, and increasing our income. Of course, to ensure good administrative order our employees must follow the regulations and legislation that govern the Bank’s operations and we must have reliable work processes and Torsåker branch | Sweden monitoring. In this way we can uphold the conﬁdence which customers, owners, and other stakeholders have put in us. Business ethics at Handelsbanken Banking operations are regulated and governed by extensive laws and Handelsbanken’s regulations. In addition, Handelsbanken has its own policies and guidelines that govern our way of working. Handelsbanken’s Board has policy on ethical adopted several Group-wide policies on ethical standards, anti-corruption and sustainability, for example. There are also guidelines issued by the standards covers: Bank’s Group Chief Executive that further clarify the Bank’s approach in various areas. These documents formulate the basic guidelines for every • high ethical standards employee. • laws, regulations and guiding principles • the UN Global Compact Managing tax-related matters In addition to its policy for sustainability, which includes a section on taxes • counteracting financial crime that serves as one of the starting points for the Bank’s work with tax-related • customer relations such as advisory services matters, Handelsbanken also has a guideline for managing taxes. • counteracting conflicts of interest The Bank’s actions regarding tax-related matters shall be responsible • conduct of employees and transparent and shall comply with prevailing laws and regulations – and high ethical standards must always be observed. Handelsbanken • reporting by employees who suspect must never participate in transactions or provide products or services that internal fraud or other irregularities may be called into question in the light of prevailing tax legislation. The • confidentiality Group’s policy for sustainability and policy on ethical standards, as well as • external contractors. a summary of the guideline for managing taxes, are available on the Bank’s website. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 32 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE Conduct of employees The following are extracts from codes of conduct included in policies and guidelines and refer to human resources. Relevant SDG Handelsbanken’s employees • must not be in a position where they may • are not permitted to process transactions in be suspected of taking improper advanwhich they, or persons closely associated We see our efforts to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing as tage of knowledge about the financial with them, have a personal interest. This fundamental to secure and sound markets which they obtain in the course also applies to companies to which these banking operations and thus as of their work employees or persons closely associated contributing to goal 16, target 16.4. The Bank’s employees must never with them have a commitment participate in activities that could • must be familiar with legislation concerning involve bribery or corruption, trading in financial instruments and observe • must notify compliance or internal audit target 16.5. the Bank’s rules for employees’ private if they suspect irregularities at the Bank. securities and currency transactions Handelsbanken’s separate system for whistleblowing may be used as well as • must, in their work at the Bank and in their these reporting channels private affairs, refrain from business transactions that violate the Bank’s rules • must notify the Bank of assignments outor current legislation side the Bank and obtain approval. These rules also apply to secondary occupations • must refrain from transactions or other and certain posts in clubs, societies and commitments that could seriously jeopthe like. ardise their personal financial position Efforts against financial crime In 2017, work throughout the Group to counterrelations. They also enable our staff to know Each year, all employees and managers act ﬁnancial crime was consolidated in one their customers and understand their business complete a mandatory training programme on Group-wide department. This department is and needs, a prerequisite for maintaining money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. Each headed by a member of the Bank’s Senior effective procedures, processes and systems employee and manager must take responsibility Management, who is responsible for measures in order to minimise the risk that the Bank is for minimising the risk that Handelsbanken will against money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. used to commit some kind of crime. provide services and products to customers The new organisation is one component of the All our customer relations begin at one of our who use them as part of some kind of crime. It is Bank’s efforts to prevent, thwart and detect use branches. Our customers also meet Handelsalso important for employees and managers to of the Bank’s products and services for money banken 24 hours a day in our digital meeting know what to do if they suspect that the Bank is laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, tax crimes, corrupplaces, via online banking or their phone. This being used for criminal activity. tion or fraud. Handelsbanken sees these efforts means that Handelsbanken needs to stay To bolster Handelsbanken’s work in this area, as a condition for conducting secure and sound informed of how our customers are using the the Bank will continue to invest in expertise as banking operations. Bank’s products and services and through which well as new technology. The new organisation An important starting point for efforts against channels. We need information so that we can also means that we are gathering together all ﬁnancial crime is the body of external regulations understand customer needs and behaviour and units that work to counteract ﬁnancial crime, on money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. can work effectively with measures to counteract which will make it possible to further improve Handelsbanken’s decentralised working methods ﬁnancial crime. procedures, systems, and processes in this and strong local presence in the community Efforts against ﬁnancial crime demand area. create a solid basis for close, long-term customer competency in and awareness of these areas. Policy for sustainability Handelsbanken’s policy for sustainability was adopted by Handelsbanken aims to integrate ﬁnancial, social the Bank’s Board in 2016. The policy sets the direction and environmental sustainability into all its business for the Group’s sustainability activities, in terms of operations. Handelsbanken’s approach to material topics relating Handelsbanken’s success depends on the to customers, the Group’s actions as an employer conﬁdence of customers, employees, owners, public and business in society, and also the relationship with authorities and other stakeholders that the Group owners and investors. The policy covers the following is acting in a responsible manner. To uphold this areas: environment, human rights and working condiconﬁdence, the Group’s sustainability activities must tions, anticorruption, money laundering, and taxes. be transparent. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 33 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE each year potential conﬂicts of interest, as well Each year, operational risk analyses are performed Conflicts of interest, as how they have been managed, must be which include the area of anti-corruption. Security corruption, bribery reported by those units deemed to have a reviews are also performed every year and these greater probability of conﬂicts of interest. Such contain a training and information section on and improper reports are made by Handelsbanken Capital corruption. influence Markets and by all branches outside Sweden, for example. Conﬂicts of interest occur daily in society, and the ﬁnancial sector is no exception. All employees In banking operations, there is a risk that staff will be exposed to situations that can be “Each year, operational risk of Handelsbanken, regardless of where they linked to attempts at bribery, which in turn may analyses are performed work in the Group, are obliged to follow the lead to a position of dependence. It is therefore Bank’s regulations concerning conﬂicts of important that the Bank’s employees comply which include the area of interest. Employees must identify conﬂicts of interest whenever they arise and, as far as with laws and the Bank’s regulations regarding bribery and improper inﬂuence so that they anti-corruption.” possible, ensure that they are avoided. avoid being dependent on a customer or Handelsbanken has established procedures supplier, or have improper inﬂuence on a Handelsbanken’s anti-corruption policy states for managing conﬂicts of interest with the purpose customer or supplier. Each year all unit heads that all Bank employees must complete a course of preventing customers’ interests from being must review the regulations applying to bribery on corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence negatively affected. The Bank’s regulations conand improper inﬂuence with their staff. The each year. New training on corruption, bribery tain requirements for transparency, whereby the Bank’s employees must not participate in and improper inﬂuence was introduced in 2017, customer must be informed when a conﬂict of actions that may involve bribery or any other and the Bank’s employees completed the interest has been identiﬁed which might affect improper inﬂuence, either within the Bank’s course during the year. The policy also applies the customer. In 2017, Handelsbanken’s Board operations, or when they perform other to members of Handelsbanken’s Central Board revised the Bank’s policy for managing conﬂicts assignments outside the Bank. There are also and boards of subsidiaries who must complete of interest in order to further clarify the Bank’s procedures for how employees are to report speciﬁc parts of the course. Service providers work in this area, for example by enumerating in a suspected breach of these regulations. and representatives of the Bank must also the policy a variety of areas where conﬂicts of The regulations must be followed in all contexts, be informed of the Bank’s rules on corruption, interest could arise in the operations. The policy such as gifts, corporate hospitality and other bribery and improper inﬂuence, and they includes details on the procedure for identifying events. For example, employees’ business are subject to these rules when they perform and managing conﬂicts of interest. For example, travel must always be paid for by the Bank. assignments on behalf of the Bank. The Bank as a customer and our suppliers Ethical considerations are just as important for the Bank in its role as a customer as when it is the provider of products and services. We have a regular dialogue with our suppliers, and when making purchasing decisions we ensure that they have collective bargaining agreements, a work environment policy and a policy against giving and accepting bribes. Environmental considerations are also taken into account in purchasing decisions. A checklist helps ensure quality in the Bank’s purchases. In 2016, Handelsbanken implemented a code of conduct for major suppliers in Sweden. Results have been excellent, and most of the Bank’s major suppliers have signed the code. In 2017, work began on introducing the code of conduct in the Bank’s other home markets, where the majority of suppliers have also signed the code. We see a positive link between the code and our relationships with suppliers as well as their direct impact on our sustainability activities. The code of conduct deﬁnes the expectations we have on our suppliers and their subcontractors. Most of these expectations are based on internationally accepted standards, with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. This means that the Bank expects those suppliers we rely on to comply with the code of conduct or corresponding standards. The supplier is also obliged to ensure that their employees and subcontractors in turn meet the expectations in the code. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 34 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT The Bank as an investment Long-term and responsible business decisions that focus on customers’ needs foster the conditions for sustainable value creation. Handelsbanken’s policy for sustainability declares that “responsible actions are essential to long-term value creation in Handelsbanken.” Sustainable value creation consists of two parts: creating Proﬁtability shareholder value and working to minimise the possible Proﬁtability is a keyword at Handelsbanken, and for Relevant SDG negative impact of the company’s business operations more than four decades the objective has been to on their surroundings. The former is easier to measure generate shareholder value – but not at any cost. than the latter. The past 10 years have been a challengValue creation must be sustainable. In addition to ing time for many of the worlds’ banks. Handelsbanken Handelsbanken’s ﬁnancial goals, the Bank aims to A pre-condition for creating shareis one of the few publicly traded banks in Europe that act as a responsible business in society. holder value is to simultaneously has generated a positive total return for its shareholders In the banking sector, there is often a strong create long-term value for the Bank’s since the ﬁnancial crisis that began in the summer of connection between ﬁnancial and social sustainability. customers and society as a whole. 2007. Thus Handelsbanken is one of the few banks in When ﬁnancial sustainability falters, there are often By striving for long-term, stable growth, we promote macroeconomic Europe that fulﬁls a basic criterion for sustainable value negative social repercussions – and vice versa. This stability and a good investment climate, creation – actually creating value. The Bank’s structured became obvious during the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, goal 8. working method for achieving long-term stable funding when weaker proﬁtability in all too many banks – often means that Handelsbanken is one of the few banks that a result of irresponsible lending – had a negative has never needed to seek support from the government, impact on society, for example in the form of lay-offs, taxpayers or central banks in modern times. Since the customers forced to leave their homes, deterioration ﬁnancial crisis began in summer 2007, Handelsbanken’s of the supply of services and products for the public, share has achieved a total return of 181 per cent. This and lower tax revenue for society as a whole. Instead of can be compared with the European index for bank contributing positively, many banks became a ﬁnancial shares, Euro STOXX Bank, which produced a total burden for their communities when politicians were return of -61 per cent during the same period. forced to use taxpayers’ money to save debt-ridden banks considered too big to fail. A BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does SHAREHOLDER VALUE the proﬁt generate a return for shareholders and tax In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisation, our revenue for the community, but a large proportion of customers’ needs are at the centre. The Bank works the proﬁt is reinvested in operations. That allows the on the basis of a well-tested business model that has bank to meet customers’ future loan requirements and not changed since the early 1970s. As a result of this generate growth in the future. decentralisation, practically all important business decisions are made close to our customers, at the local branch in the community where the customer is active. This business model has enabled the Bank to report proﬁtability at very stable levels over a long period, “ Long-term and responsible business and every year since 1972, the Bank has achieved its ﬁnancial goal of better proﬁtability than the average of decisions that focus on customers’ peer banks in its home markets. needs foster the conditions for sustainable value creation.” H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 35 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT Het Gooi branch | The Netherlands “Research analysts who specialise Customer satisfaction Yet another key phrase for Handelsbanken is ‘customer in sustainability often draw satisfaction’. The Bank is convinced that there is a strong connection between sustainable long-term proﬁtability attention to Handelsbanken as and customers being satisﬁed with the service they a solid investment.” receive and the products and services the Bank offers. Low risk tolerance A bank that takes a long-term approach and focuses A long-term approach on customer satisfaction with the aim of achieving Another key concept that aptly describes Handelsproﬁtability naturally has low risk tolerance. A large part banken’s actions is ‘long-term’. The Bank takes a of banking operations is based on managing risk. long-term view of its business operations and its Handelsbanken’s business model focuses on taking relations with customers. Handelsbanken views every credit risks in the branch operations and works to recruitment of a new employee as important and long minimise other risks. The Bank deliberately avoids term. External staff turnover is low, and all members of doing business with high risk, even if the customer is Handelsbanken’s Senior Management were recruited willing to pay a high interest rate. Handelsbanken internally, most having spent their entire working life in has no targets in terms of sales volumes or market the Bank. Handelsbanken favours long-term investors share. Aggressive selling of credits which leads to as shareholders. an unhealthy level of household and corporate debt These approaches intersect in Handelsbanken’s always hits the customer hardest. The Bank’s stated proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktogonen, which is the direct goal is that no credit will result in losses. This promotes opposite of a short-term bonus system. Handelsbanken’s long-term value creation for the Bank’s shareholders, too. proﬁt-sharing scheme is long-term, as disbursements cannot be made until an employee has turned 60. In the HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARE – A SUSTAINABLE meantime, the funds are invested in Handelsbanken INVESTMENT shares. Consequently, the employees take the same Research analysts who specialise in sustainability often long-term view of the Bank’s business operations as draw attention to Handelsbanken as a solid investment, other long-term shareholders do. and the share is included in the following sustainability H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 36 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES COMPILED BY ECPI ECPI Ethibel Sustainability Index Forum Ethibel FTSE4Good FTSE OMX GES Sustainability Nasdaq OMX/GES SIX Sweden SRI Index SIX Finance Information STOXX Global ESG Leaders STOXX indexes: Ethibel Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, evaluating the Bank from a sustainability perspective. OMX GES Sustainability, SIX Sweden SRI Index and In addition, Handelsbanken was in contact with sustainECPI Global Developed ESG Best in class Equity. ability analysts from about 10 independent research As in previous years, Handelsbanken participated ﬁrms during 2017. These contacts often occur when in a survey of sustainable companies conducted by research ﬁrms ask the Bank to answer questionnaires the Robecosams research company. Handelsbanken consisting of a number of standard questions. In recent was included in the Sustainability Yearbook 2018 as a years, Handelsbanken has taken the initiative to expand ‘Sustainability Yearbook Member’, which means that these contacts by having an ongoing dialogue with Handelsbanken scored in the top 15 per cent of all the each research analyst. banks in the world. During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken has Around 30 investment banks have research analysts generated positive shareholder value of SEK 121 billion. who regularly monitor Handelsbanken and its shares. Market capitalisation has grown by SEK 71 billion, while In recent years, several of these investment banks have Handelsbanken has paid out SEK 50 billion in dividends supplemented the traditional company research by also to shareholders. How sustainability analysts assess Handelsbanken The scores in the table were set by external parties who have analysed the Bank’s sustainability activities. Research company 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Robecosam 80 82 73 56 53 Imug neutral CCC 1 neutral CC 1 neutral CC 2 neutral CC 2 Sustainalytics 74 71 69 70 Oekom Research CCCCD+ (not Prime) (not Prime) (not Prime) (not Prime) (not Prime) MSCI ESG Rating A A A BBB 1 Non-covered bonds. 2 Covered bonds. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 7 37 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes As an institution in the business world, Handelsbanken participates in numerous initiatives and collaborations to demonstrate our commitment, and contribute through various efforts in line with our operations as well as for important exchange with representatives from different spheres of society. In addition to the initiatives and collaborations presented here, which guide Handelsbanken’s efforts, the Bank also adheres to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Sustainable Development Goals, the International Labour Organization’s core conventions, and the UN Children’s Rights and Business Principles. INITIATIVES AND COLLABORATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ICC 2° INVESTING INITIATIVE In 2009, Handelsbanken signed The International Together with the UN Global Compact, an Chamber of Com2° Investing Initiative, initiative aimed at companies merce (ICC) has Handelsbanken which advocates 10 principles developed guidelines for sustainable developperformed an initial analysis of climate-related based on international convenment. The purpose is to provide companies transitional risk in our asset management tions. These principles, established in 2000, worldwide with a framework and tools to move operations at Handelsbanken Fonder AB, cover human rights, labour, the environment forward with sustainability. The guidelines are Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB and Handelsbanken and anti-corruption. based on national and international sustainFunds SICAV as well as in our credit portfolio. ability standards. Handelsbanken has complied 2° Investing Initiative is a non-governmental PRI with the ICC guidelines since the 1990s. organisation (NGO) that performs analyses of Principles for climate change scenarios. Responsible CDP Investment (PRI) CDP is an independent ECPAT was launched in 2006 and is a network of invesinternational non-proﬁt In 2009, Handelsbanken, together tors and service providers that work together organisation which works with the Swedish Bankers’ Associawith the United Nations, UNEP Finance Initiative, for transparency and dialogue on companies’ tion, started co-operating with ECPAT and Global Compact to implement principles for environmental impacts and to make such Sweden. Since 2015, the Bank has responsible investment. The purpose is to proinformation available to investors. More than intensiﬁed this collaboration. The mote responsible behaviour among institutional 5,600 organisations in more than 90 countries overall objective is to prevent exploitation of investors and to work for increased openness all over the world measure and report their children by obstructing and preventing monetary and awareness of environmental, social and environmental impacts through CDP. transactions that are linked to the commercial corporate governance issues in the companies CDP acts on behalf of more than 800 institusexual exploitation of children. As part of in which these players invest. Handelsbanken tional investors. Handelsbanken has been one Handelsbanken’s work with corporate social became a signatory to the principles in 2009. since 2015 and reports to CDP annually. responsibility, we integrate a preventative workPRI has over 1,750 signatory members, from ing method into our operations that helps in the more than 50 countries, with total assets under EQUATOR PRINCIPLES ﬁght against commercial sexual exploitation of management of roughly USD 70 trillion. Handelsbanken has children. signed the Equator ECPAT Sweden is part of ECPAT International Handelsbanken Fonder has the following PRIPrinciples, a framewhich has member organisations in more than related initiatives: work that provides guidance to ﬁnancial 80 countries. ECPAT is working to prevent and G20 Energy Efﬁciency Investor Statement is an institutions for assessing social and environstop all forms of commercial sexual exploitation initiative to practise energy efﬁciency in our work with responsible investment. mental risks in project ﬁnance. The Equator of children: child sexual abuse material, travelSustainable Stock Exchanges is an initiative to Principles were formally launched in 2003, but ling offenders (child sex tourism), and trafﬁcking persuade the stock exchanges of the world to over the years they have been updated to better of children for sexual purposes. demand greater transparency from listed companies support members in identifying, assessing, regarding sustainability topics. The Montréal Carbon Pledge is a UN initiative in and managing environmental and social risks SWEDISH FINANCIAL COALITION AGAINST which asset owners and investment managers have when ﬁnancing projects. COMMERCIAL SEXUAL EXPLOITATION OF committed to measuring and reporting the carbon The initiative consists of more than 92 memCHILDREN footprint in their portfolios. Handelsbanken has been bers representing ﬁnancial institutions from 37 Handelsbanken has been part of the initiative since 2015. As a ﬁrst step, we have measured and reported the carbon footprint of countries. The members undertake to implement a member of the Swedish Handelsbanken’s equity funds. A summary of these the principles in their internal guidelines, proFinancial Coalition against funds is published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. cesses, and procedures for project ﬁnance, and Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (the to report annually on projects which have been Financial Coalition) since 2009. The Financial UNEP FI assessed or ﬁnanced based on the framework. Coalition works to obstruct and prevent trade The UN Environment Programme with images of sexual abuse of children, based has a special organisation that TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL SWEDEN on the overall crime-prevention goal of stopping works on how the capital markets During the year, child sexual abuse. With the intention of preventcan promote the adoption of best Handelsbanken ing this trade from being conducted through the practices for the environment and became a memﬁnancial systems, unique co-operation has sustainability. Some 200 ﬁnancial ber of Transparency International Sweden’s been developed among public authorities, the institutions which support the initiative contribute Corporate Supporters Forum, as part of the Bank’s private sector, and the non-proﬁt sector. The to research into and knowledge of how sustaincommitment to working against corruption. This fact that the Financial Coalition’s members ability topics can be integrated into ﬁnancial is a Swedish business forum that serves as a impede opportunities to use ﬁnancial systems decisions. Handelsbanken has been a member platform for companies to pool their experience for this kind of crime helps to complicate and of UNEP FI since the mid-1990s. and knowledge related to anti-corruption efforts. limit the spread of such crimes. 38 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES GLOBAL CHILD FORUM and experience, and offer opportunities for SISD Since 2013, Handelsbanken internships that give students experience and Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development has taken part in Global Child contact with workplaces. Through these, is a platform where Swedish long-term investors Forum, a non-proﬁt foundaHandelsbanken establishes contact with target and players in the ﬁnancial services sector can tion which functions as an groups that are important in terms of recruitlearn and exchange best practices and experiindependent forum to exchange best practices ment. This is based on co-operation with and ence with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable and stimulate discussion about children’s rights. commitment from HR departments, employees, Development. The objective is to explore, from The forum brings together leaders from the and managers from our local branches and various angles and perspectives, the role of the business community, the public sector, internal units. long-term investor in the Agenda and to provide academia and society as a whole to spur ideas and inspiration for the way forward. cross-sector action that aims to promote HANDELSBANKEN’S STUDENT children’s rights. PROGRAMME SWESIF Handelsbanken in Sweden and Norway offers Handelsbanken Asset ECONOMIC RESEARCH AND EDUCATION young people who plan to study at university Management is a member Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has or college the opportunity to participate in the of SWESIF, an independent on a number of occasions awarded grants for Bank’s Student Programme alongside their network forum for organisations working for economic research, mainly through allocations studies. The programme comprises working at or with sustainable investment in Sweden. to two independent research foundations: the Bank during their studies, their own action SWESIF aims to increase knowledge of and Tore Browaldhs stiftelse and Jan Wallanders plan, and relevant training to develop theminterest in sustainable investment on the part och Tom Hedelius stiftelse. selves at Handelsbanken. The purpose is to of institutional asset owners and managers. Together, these foundations are some of the attract, recruit and develop young employees as To make it easier for savers to compare mutual most important sources of funding for economic part of the Bank’s future management succesfunds and how sustainability is integrated in research in Sweden. In 2017, 179 grants (197) sion, and to promote gender equality and their management, SWESIF has developed a were awarded for a total of SEK 215 million (188). diversity at Handelsbanken. sector-wide sustainability declaration for mutual At the end of 2017, the foundations’ comfunds. Since 2015, most of Handelsbanken’s bined capital was SEK 7,674 million (6,901). CLIMATE BONDS INITIATIVE (CBI) funds have this type of sustainability declaration. Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial The Climate Bonds For more information, see swesif.org/swesif/ chair in accounting at the Stockholm School Initiative (CBI) is an hallbarhetsproﬁlen-english. Since spring 2016, of Economics and contributed to the Swedish international non-proﬁt organisation that proHandelsbanken Asset Management has served House of Finance (SHoF). motes investment in climate-change solutions. on SWESIF’s board. Handelsbanken also supports a research The organisation aims to facilitate the project at the Stockholm School of Economics mobilisation of capital in the global green bond WOMEN IN FINANCE CHARTER where studies and analyses are performed on market by advocacy and outreach to inform As part of its efforts towards gender the most important factors in creating customer and stimulate the market. equality, Handelsbanken in the UK satisfaction and also in monitoring the link Handelsbanken has been active in green and signed the Women in Finance between loyalty and proﬁtability. sustainable ﬁnance for several years and has Charter, an initiative from HM been a CBI partner since 2017. Treasury, which means the Bank is committed PERSONAL FINANCES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE to work for more gender balance in the ﬁnancial SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION sector. Since 2009, Handelsbanken supports initiatives to improve Handelsbanken young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance Asset Management, by supporting information campaigns and contogether with other major Swedish investors, tributing know-how. Ung Privatekonomi (‘Young has taken part in the Sustainable Value Creation Personal Finances’) is a schools information project. The aim of the project is to highlight project that teaches Swedish upper secondary the importance of Swedish listed companies school students and teachers about personal working with sustainability topics in a structured ﬁnances and savings. manner. To encourage, support and follow up on the companies’ sustainability efforts, Sustainable COLLABORATION WITH UNIVERSITIES Value Creation conducts surveys and organises AND COLLEGES seminars and round-table discussions. Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations In its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed with schools, universities and colleges that are Swedish companies, Handelsbanken has itself an important part of its long-term employer responded to the surveys on sustainability branding work. For example, we participate in activities. training courses, contribute our competency H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 7 39 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES AWARDS BEST PRIVATE BANK – FINANCIAL TIMES SERVICESCORE 2017 satisfaction, service and customer treatment, AND INVESTORS CHRONICLE WEALTH For the sixth consecutive year, and the range of products and services. This MANAGEMENT AWARDS Handelsbanken has received the year’s surveys showed that personal service Handelsbanken in the UK award for Best service among and local presence are greatly appreciated in has been named ‘Best banks in Sweden, based on the an increasingly digitalised society. Private Bank’ by Financial ServiceScore survey. The Bank is applauded for This year, the Finansbarometern market survey Times and Investors being close to its customers – at the branch, on drew responses from almost 2,500 people. Chronicle Wealth Managethe phone, on its app, and online. ServiceScore Respondents come from large companies with ment Awards for the ﬁfth time. The judges’ is based on the opinions of some 3,400 people, more than 100 employees or a turnover exceeddecision was based on a survey in which the where 181 Swedish companies, public authoriing SEK 100 million as well as small companies readers of the magazine related their experiences ties, and organisations are assessed in terms of with between one and nine employees. They and provided opinions about their banks. the level of service that customers consider they are CEOs, CFOs or other people in a position receive, based on their expectations. to inﬂuence the company’s choice of banking INTERNATIONAL BANKER services. Handelsbanken received the BUSINESS BANK OF THE YEAR AND ‘Best Innovation in Retail Banking SWEDEN’S SMALL ENTERPRISE Sweden’ prize from International BANK 2017 Banker in 2017. The prize reﬂects Handelsbanken has the relevance and success of the once again been voted Bank’s decentralised way of Business Bank of the Year – for the seventh year working. International Banker is one of the most running – and Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank established international periodicals in the ﬁelds – for the sixth year running. The survey shows of economics, banking and ﬁnance. International that Handelsbanken is appreciated by small as Banker presents its awards to banks all over the well as large companies, and the Bank achieved world. the highest rating in the categories of customer SURVEYS BUSINESS BANKING INSIGHT SURVEY CUSTOMER SATISFACTION THE SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK 2018 Handelsbanken was In 2017, Handelsbanken Handelsbanken is one of the most sustainable rated the best bank had more satisﬁed private banks in the world, according to the Robecosam in the UK for small and corporate customers research company. In every year since 2004, and medium-sized companies in a survey perthan the average for the the sustainability analysts at Robecosam have formed by the British Chambers of Commerce banking sector in all of listed the companies they consider to be the and the Federation of Small Businesses on the Bank’s six home markets. Thus the Bank most sustainable in the Sustainability Yearbook. behalf of the British government. enjoys solid customer satisfaction. EPSI Rating Handelsbanken is included in this year’s edition Handelsbanken received excellent assessand SKI (Swedish Quality Index) compile, analyse as a ‘Sustainability Yearbook Member’, which ments in all 12 categories of the survey and and distribute information about customers’ means that Handelsbanken scored in the top scored the maximum points – 10 of a possible expectations, perceived quality, and evaluation 15 per cent of all banks in the world. The evalu10 – for ‘the ease of getting in contact with of goods and services. EPSI Rating and SKI are ations of the research analysts are based on an someone who can help you’. associated with the Swedish Institute for Quality array of sustainability criteria with economic, Overall the results showed that it was signiﬁ(SIQ) and the international organisation EPSI environmental and social dimensions. Each cantly more likely that a Handelsbanken customer Rating Group (Extended Performance Satisfaction company receives a total sustainability rating would recommend their bank compared to Index), which conducts comparison surveys in between 0 and 100, resulting in a ranking of all customers of other banks. Almost seven out of Europe. Research and development related to companies in each sector. Handelsbanken 10 companies that participated in the survey EPSI’s quality surveys is conducted together with received a total score of 80. would strongly recommend Handelsbanken to SIQ and the Stockholm School of Economics. others, putting the Bank in a class apart: among KANTAR SIFO REPUTATION INDEX 2017 customers of the bank that came in second, fewer SUSTAINABLE BRAND INDEX Handelsthan half would strongly recommend their bank. The 2017 results of banken is Scandinavia’s largamong the 10 companies in Sweden with the GLOBAL FINANCE est annual brand best reputation according to the 2017 survey by Handelsbanken is the world’s study focusing on sustainability – Sustainable Kantar Sifo, which every year asks the Swedish third safest commercial bank, Brand Index™ – shows that Handelsbanken public how much conﬁdence they have in according to the annual survey enjoys a top position among banks in Sweden. various companies. Around 4,500 people aged by Global Finance, an internaIn this study, 30,000 consumers assessed the 18–79 took part in the survey. They answered tional periodical. The survey sustainability of a brand. questions about what they expected of various was partly based on an Based on the environment, people and the companies and how well those expectations evaluation of bank ratings from the international brand, the study seeks to understand why a were met. credit rating agencies Moody’s, Standard & brand is perceived in a certain way. Poor’s and Fitch. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 40 Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes UNIVERSUM Young professionals FORBES 2017 GLOBAL 2000: Business students In Universum’s 2017 World’s Best Employers TT KTCIVTA RARA IVA According to Corpo­ E REBME P Career Barometer At No. 229 on Forbes’ list of MEOSSTTA M YEARRSE GOIV ATT rate Barometer 2017 – TSL ­survey, Sweden’s the 500 best employers in the Top of industry SVERIGE SWEDEN a survey carried out young professionals world, Handelsbanken was 2017 by Universum, an named their ideal employers. ‘Young profes­ ranked the highest of the 2017 FöretagsBarometern 2017 employer branding consultancy – Handels­ sionals’ refers to people under 40 with an ­Nordic banks. The survey was conducted for banken was the top bank in Sweden and ­academic background and one to eight years’ the first time in 2017, and the results were ­seventh overall among a total of 100 companies. experience of working life. Among professionals ­published in October. Through independent The survey’s participants – business students working in business, Handelsbanken was the best ­surveys, the global media company Forbes in Sweden – responded to questions on ideal bank and 19th out of a total of 100 companies. gathered more than 360,000 recommendations employers and graded these according to the Among professional IT graduates, Handels­ from around the world based on Forbes’ Global following criteria: reputation and image; job banken placed 44th in a total of 100 companies. 2000 list. Employees graded their own employer characteristics; people and corporate culture; In this survey, participants answered questions and recommended other employers they were remuneration and opportunities to advance. about what exemplifies a good employer based familiar with in their sector. on the following criteria: reputation and image; job characteristics; people and corporate culture; remuneration and opportunities to advance. SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Handelsbanken is analysed and FTSE4GOOD information in Europe and a leading index calcu­ assessed by both customers and Handelsbanken has been lator on the Nordic market. ISS-Ethix is a global ­financial market players. The results selected for the FTSE4Good player providing analysis and advisory services and the consequent assessment of the Index 2017. The index is on sustainable and responsible investment. Bank show how well Handelsbanken ­independent and is based lives up to their expectations. on analyses of companies’ work with environ­ STOXX GLOBAL ESG LEADERS mental, social and governance (ESG) practices. Handelsbanken is ECPI Handelsbanken has been part of the index included in the STOXX Since the end since 2001. Global ESG Leaders of the 1990s, index. The companies ECPI has OMX GES SUSTAINABILITY included in the index were selected in an analysis ­provided financial markets with various sustain­ Together with GES Investment Services, a process based on environmental factors, social ability indexes. Handelsbanken has been research company, the Nasdaq Stockholm responsibility and corporate governance topics. selected for the ECPI Euro Ethical Equity and stock exchange has launched a sustainability The Index consists of three underlying indexes: ECPI Global Developed ESG Best in Class index that provides investors with a universe of STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, Equity indexes. companies that fulfil sustainability requirements. STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and Handelsbanken has qualified for the OMX GES STOXX Global ESG Governance Leaders. ETHIBEL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX OMXS30 Ethical Price Index and the OMX GES Handelsbanken is included in all three of these The Brussels-based Sustainability Sweden index as well as the indexes. organisation Forum OMX GES Sustainability Nordic index. ETHIBEL provides ­financial markets with SIX SWEDEN SRI INDEX information on various companies and their The SIX Sweden SRI Index is a collaboration ­sustainability activities. Its analyses are carried between SIX Financial Information and ISS-Ethix out by the Vigeo Eiris research company, and and consists of companies listed on the based on these results Forum ETHIBEL creates ­Stockholm stock exchange that meet ISS-Ethix’s a universe that forms a platform for sustainability sustainability criteria comprising a ­modern products and responsible investment. Handels­ standard for social, environmental and ethical banken has been included in the Ethibel criteria, where the concepts of sustainability and ­Excellence Investment Register since 2004, responsibility are in focus. SRI screening is also and Svenska Handelsbanken A has been applied to other indexes, such as the SIX30 SRI reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Index and SIX60 SRI Index, both of which include ­Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe the Handelsbanken share. SIX Financial Infor­ since 20 September 2017. mation is the third largest supplier of financial H ANDELSBANK EN | SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT 2017 41 In-depth information about sustainability CONTENTS GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES FACTS: THE BANK AS AND FACTS 43 AN EMPLOYER 52 SUMMARY OF CORPORATE Staff turnover 52 GOVERNANCE 43 Gender equality 52 Principles for corporate governance Sickness absence 52 at Handelsbanken 43 Remuneration and beneﬁts 52 Recruitment and diversity-related work by the Board 43 Relations with unions 54 Internal control 43 FACTS: THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE 54 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY 44 Compliance and major incidents 54 Responsible Investment Council 44 Policy on ethical standards 55 Guidelines for managing taxes 55 SUSTAINABILITY RISK 44 Policy for sustainability 55 HANDELSBANKEN AND THE Anti-money-laundering activities 55 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 44 Conﬂicts of interest, corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence 55 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 44 Suppliers 55 Our stakeholders 44 Principles when granting credit 55 Materiality analysis 45 FACTS: THE BANK AS AN KEY FIGURES FOR INVESTMENT 55 SUSTAINABILITY 46 Public limited company 55 FACTS: THE BANK AND ITS Dividend 55 CUSTOMERS 47 Creating shareholder value 55 Satisﬁed customers 47 Integrity and conﬁdentiality CONTENT, RESTRICTIONS AND – Information security and IT security 47 INDEXES ACCORDING TO THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 56 FACTS: THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY 47 AUDITOR’S REPORT 59 Financial aspects 47 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS 60 Modern slavery and human trafﬁcking 49 Direct environmental impact 49 CONTACT DETAILS FACTS: THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT 50 Business relations 50 Investment process 50 Equator Principles 52 TCFD 52 42 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Governance, key figures and facts • Policy for remuneration, pensions and suitability assessment • Policy for independent risk control Sustainability is well integrated in Handelsbanken’s working methods, and there • Policy for compliance are several central bodies that co-ordinate the work at Group level and in the • Policy on measures against money laundering subsidiaries. Various processes, such as the ongoing stakeholder dialogues, also and terrorist ﬁnancing and the observance of exist to support our work with sustainability. Handelsbanken appreciates and international sanctions acknowledges that some stakeholders seek in-depth information in particular • Policy for handling customer complaints. areas that is more detailed than the information desired by the broader audiences that are interested in our sustainability reporting. This part of the report, which A summary of these policies can be found in the deals with sustainability management, presents more detailed information. Bank’s Corporate Governance Report and at handelsbanken.com. Selection of guidelines established by the CEO: Summary of corporate RECRUITMENT AND DIVERSITY-RELATED WORK BY THE BOARD • Guidelines for the Handelsbanken Group’s environmental activities governance Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted a policy to • Guidelines for information security in the promote diversity in the Board. The policy states Handelsbanken’s entire Corporate Governance Handelsbanken Group that to promote independent opinions and critical Report can be found in the Bank’s Annual Report. • Guidelines for the Handelsbanken Group’s questioning, it is desirable that the Board should The following is a summary of the information Sustainability Committee be sufﬁciently diverse in terms of age, gender, considered most material for the sustainability • Guidelines for managing taxes geographical origin, and educational and profesreport. For more information, please see the • Guidelines regarding business relations with sional background. The proportion of women on Bank’s full corporate governance report, which companies with operations within fossil fuels the Board of the Bank is 45 per cent, and the can be found on pages 47–63 of the Annual • Guidelines regarding business relations in proportion who are nationals of a country other Report. forestry and farming than the one where Handelsbanken is domiciled Corporate governance concerns how the • Guidelines regarding business relations with is 36 per cent. owners directly or indirectly control the Bank, and the armaments and defence industry. how rights and obligations are allocated among Composition of the Board after election at the AGM the Bank’s bodies, in accordance with prevailing Policy documents that the boards of laws and regulations. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Handelsbanken’s subsidiaries have Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance Total number of decided on: Report is based on a shareholder perspective. Board members 11 11 10 10 11 • Corporate governance policy for However, there are other stakeholders interested of which men 6 6 7 8 8 Handelsbanken Fonder in Handelsbanken’s corporate governance upon of which women 5 5 3 2 3 • Policy for responsible investment for whose trust the Bank depends. These include Nationality other Handelsbanken Fonder customers, employees, and bond investors as than Swedish 4 5 5 3 4 • Policy for responsible investment at well as the community at large. Xact Kapitalförvaltning INTERNAL CONTROL • Policy for responsible investment at PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE All managers at all levels in the Bank have a Handelsbanken Liv GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN responsibility for internal control and the Bank’s • Policy for sustainability at Handelsbanken Liv Handelsbanken’s shareholders elect the Board, compliance. Consequently, ﬁt-for-purpose • Policy for sustainability at Stadshypotek and the Board appoints the Group Chief instructions and procedures for the operation • Policy against corruption at Stadshypotek. Executive. One way in which the Board exercises must be in place, and compliance with the its governance of the Bank is by issuing policies procedures is monitored regularly. Selection of guidelines in the HR area: and instructions. It is partly through the issued The Compliance function, besides being • Guideline on alcohol, drugs and gambling policies that the Board takes decisions regarding responsible for compliance, provides advice and • Guideline on victimisation, discrimination and Handelsbanken’s overall risk tolerance and support in regulatory matters. Internal control and harassment ensures the Bank’s ﬁnancial stability. Through compliance work are subject to internal and • Guideline on bribery and improper inﬂuence these, the Board also decides on the Bank’s external risk-based auditing. • Guideline on presence on social media. approach in several essential sustainability issues Handelsbanken has an established system for regarding measures against money laundering whistleblowing, which means that an employee and terrorist ﬁnancing, the environment, who suspects internal fraud or other irregularities remuneration, ethics and corruption. The Group can report these to a unit outside the employee’s Chief Executive also exercises governance by own unit. Anonymous reports are also acted issuing various policy documents. The Group upon. Chief Executive issues instructions for the managers who report directly to him and issues Selection of policy documents established guidelines, some of which provide more detailed by the Board: More information directions to complement and clarify the Board’s • Credit policy More information about Handelspolicies. These documents are revised every year • Policy for operational risk banken’s corporate governance is but can be adjusted more often when necessary. • Capital policy available at handelsbanken.se/ireng. There you will ﬁnd the following information: However, the foundation of functioning corporate • Financial policy • previous corporate governance reports governance is not only formal documents but • Policy for ﬁnancial risks from 2007 onwards also the Bank’s corporate culture, corporate goal, • Information policy • Articles of Association working methods and remuneration system. • Policy for sustainability • information about the nomination committee These are integral with the principles, strategies, • Policy on ethical standards • minutes of shareholders’ meetings from limits and targets described in policy documents • Policy against corruption 2008 onwards. and instructions. • Policy for managing conﬂicts of interest H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 43 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Organisational strucparts of society get involved if we are to achieve these goals. Thus the business community also OUR STAKEHOLDERS Many private individuals, organisations and comture for sustainability has a vital role to play in the long-term fulﬁlment of panies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts the goals, as stated in the implementation plan in various matters. For Handelsbanken, corporate Handelsbanken’s sustainability work is decentralproduced by the UN. social responsibility means living up to the reasonised and carried out where the Bank’s business As a bank, we are an important part of society, able expectations of these stakeholders and and operational decisions are made. The work is through our strong local presence and other ways acting so as to maintain their trust in the Bank. co-ordinated by a Group-wide specialist function. that we contribute to the community. That includes Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are our Handelsbanken also has a Sustainability Compaying taxes and fees, employing personnel, customers, employees, shareholders and bond mittee, formed in 2010. Handelsbanken’s Chief granting credit, offering payment solutions and investors, as well as the community at large, Sustainability Ofﬁcer chairs the Committee, is providing investment services as well as other which also includes public authorities and regulaa member of Senior Management, and reports banking services. Through the Bank’s operations, tors. The Bank’s four main stakeholder groups to the Group Chief Executive. The Committee we can contribute long-term to these goals. have been identiﬁed based on the fact that consists of representatives from various operating Thus Handelsbanken’s Sustainability CommitHandelsbanken’s operations materially affect areas throughout the Group and has met regularly tee has analysed the 17 goals and their 169 targets them or are materially affected by them – or both. during the year, a total of eight times. to determine which of these the operations should In addition to these four main stakeholder groups, focus on and how we can integrate them within Handelsbanken also maintains a continuous RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT COUNCIL the framework of the sub-areas in the Bank’s dialogue with other stakeholder groups. These Matters of principle relating to sustainability in material topics described above. The analysis was groups include equity research analysts, sector asset management are the responsibility of based on the degree of inﬂuence, both indirect organisations, union organisations, sustainability Handelsbanken’s Responsible Investment and direct, identiﬁed risks and opportunities, and analysts, non-proﬁt organisations, international Council. The Council is represented by Handelsthe Bank’s most material sustainability topics. organisations, special interest organisations, banken’s two fund management companies: As a result of the analysis, in the next few years municipal and county councils, consumer Handelsbanken Fonder and Xact Kapitalförvaltwe will focus on the following six goals: organisations, suppliers, potential shareholders ning. The Council’s task is to actively monitor • Gender equality and investors in the Group’s bonds, prospective trends in responsible investment, to contribute to • Decent work and economic growth customers, press and media, students, schools the continuing improvement of Handelsbanken’s • Industry, innovation and infrastructure and universities. work in this area and to set up and track relevant • Sustainable cities and communities objectives. For example, the Council decides • Climate action Ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders on matters such as what actions to take when • Peace, justice and strong institutions. It is vital that we keep ourselves up-to-date on the Bank sees signs of sustainability risk in the what stakeholders want and demand from investments made on behalf of customers. Handelsbanken. That is why, in the markets where the Bank operates, we have an ongoing Sustainability risk dialogue with our customers, staff, shareholders and investors, as well as with the community at Sustainability risk can arise in any of the Bank’s large, such as public authorities and other actors different roles – as a lender, asset manager, in society. service provider, purchaser or an employer. Sustainability risk spans areas such as human Customers rights, the environment, climate, corruption and For all the selected goals, Handelsbanken can The most important dialogue occurs at the money laundering. It is important to anticipate contribute through its own operations and thousands of meetings with customers that take and manage sustainability risk, for ﬁnancial and through business relations. Gender equality, place daily, by phone and e-mail, or during visits legal reasons as well as for the Bank’s reputation. decent work conditions and children’s rights are to our 800-plus branches around the world. Handelsbanken’s activities for managing a natural part of our own operations, and we By maintaining close, long-term relations with sustainability risk follow the Bank’s decentralised are eager to help accelerate their progress in our customers, the Bank gains a better undermodel and are aligned with the Bank’s generally the communities where we are active and the standing of customer expectations, for example, low tolerance of risk. The Bank’s business operacompanies with which we do business. tions bear the responsibility for identifying sustainStakeholder model With signiﬁcant lending to the property sector, ability risk and managing it. This is done within we have particular responsibility in terms of a framework of established processes for risk sustainable cities, and in our corporate lending we CU management. TY ST want to contribute by reducing our indirect impact IE C S on the climate and by ﬁnancing future champions SO ER M Handelsbanken and in the conversion to a more sustainable economy. The goal of peace, justice and strong institutions O the Sustainable includes the goal of substantially reducing illicit ﬁnancial ﬂows and signiﬁcantly reducing all forms Development Goals of corruption and bribery, an area where banks OWN play a crucial role. ES In September 2015, the UN General Assembly ER YE adopted the Agenda 2030. It contains 17 sustainS/N I VE O able development goals and 169 targets aimed ST PL at achieving long-term sustainable economic, Stakeholder dialogue OR S EM social and environmental development in order to Listening closely to stakeholders’ expectations eradicate extreme poverty, to reduce inequality is a vital aspect of being a responsible bank. All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsbanken. They all wish the Bank to be stable and responsive to and injustice in the world, and to ﬁght climate At Handelsbanken, we work systematically on their expectations. How well the Bank manages to live up change. The Agenda is not only a matter for a continual basis through dialogue with staketo these expectations has an impact on the continued governments. On the contrary, it is vital that all holders to gain insights. success of Handelsbanken. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 44 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS expectations on the Bank’s products and highlighted in dialogue between public authorities based on the Bank’s own experience, partly on services. By being responsive to customers’ and the Bank. The Bank is also in continuous questions the Bank receives from external stakerequests and questions, we can provide answers contact with non-governmental organisations holders – but also generally relevant for a bank. and meet customers’ expectations in product (NGOs) and during the year had several dialogues In 2017, we also conducted in-depth, qualitative development and availability. When the Bank’s with them. discussions with selected groups of stakeholders, corporate customers procure banking services, inside and outside the Bank, as part of the process they increasingly wish to discuss our approach Union organisations of continuing to deﬁne the Bank’s most material to sustainability, focusing on the Bank’s direct For a long time, Handelsbanken has had excelsustainability topics. and indirect impact. Private customers also attach lent relations with the union organisations, which As a result of these stakeholder dialogues, great importance to the fact that a bank acts is an important part of the Bank’s business culture. Handelsbanken’s material sustainability topics responsibly. There is an ongoing dialogue between union have been grouped into six areas: representatives and managers concerning • the Bank and its customers Employees operations – such as when changes are to be • the Bank’s role in the community All of the Bank’s employees participate in their own made – where valuable information is exchanged • the Bank’s indirect impact unit’s business planning every year. After the plan at the very early stages. • the Bank as an employer is set, individual competency mapping, planning • the Bank’s business culture dialogues and performance reviews are carried Sustainability analysts • the Bank as an investment. out, linking the business operations’ goals with Around 30 investment banks have research each employee’s goals. The result is an individual analysts who regularly monitor Handelsbanken The different sub-areas indicate where the material action plan for each employee which is to be and its shares. In recent years, several of these topics have the greatest impact on the Bank’s followed up regularly during the year and then investment banks have supplemented the operations, internally and externally. To decide forms the basis of an annual salary dialogue traditional company research by also evaluating which areas are deemed most material, a selection review between employee and manager. the Bank from a sustainability perspective. process was conducted that resulted in a number In addition, Handelsbanken was in contact of topics for stakeholders to give their opinion on. Shareholders with sustainability analysts from about 10 Handelsbanken’s view of its sustainability work is Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who independent research ﬁrms during 2017. These conﬁrmed by the detailed stakeholder dialogue. ultimately decide about the Bank’s governance. contacts often occur when research ﬁrms ask The results show that stakeholders deem all The shareholders exercise their right to decide on the Bank to answer questionnaires consisting of questions important and are very consistent, matters concerning the company at shareholders’ a number of standard questions. In recent years, with no major differences among the various main meetings. At the meetings, individual shareholders Handelsbanken has taken the initiative to expand stakeholder groups, and very small variations have the opportunity to put questions to the Bank’s these contacts by having an ongoing dialogue among the Bank’s home markets. In addition to Board and senior management. with each research analyst. detailed dialogue with these main stakeholders, Shareholders show keen interest in HandelsHandelsbanken also conducted dialogues, using banken’s annual general meetings. In the past ﬁve Suppliers various methods and channels, with representatives years, shareholders representing more than 50 Handelsbanken purchases goods and services of other stakeholder groups, such as a number per cent (50) of the votes in the Bank have particifrom many different suppliers. In the Swedish of non-proﬁt organisations and a selection of the pated. The Bank provides investors, analysts, operations, two thirds of the total volume of Bank’s suppliers. The outcome of the materiality rating agencies and other capital market players purchases come from about 70 of the Bank’s analysis is presented on pages 8–9, including a with information regarding Handelsbanken’s several thousand suppliers. description of the signiﬁcance of these topics to operations and ﬁnancial performance. During the Based on the Bank’s Supplier Code of ConHandelsbanken and the risks and opportunities year, the Group Chief Executive, CFO and Invesduct, we conduct an ongoing dialogue with they are associated with. tor Relations Department held more than 500 our key suppliers in which sustainability ﬁgures meetings with equity and ﬁxed income investors. prominently. As a result of these dialogues, we become involved, our employees inspired, and we improve our own – as well as our suppliers’ – Attendance at AGMs 2012–2017 sustainability work. No. % MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 2,000 100 A materiality analysis provides data that assists in setting priorities and is one of the processes 1,600 80 that support the advancement of sustainability 1,200 60 at Handelsbanken. 800 40 Detailed dialogue with stakeholders In addition to the dialogues that Handelsbanken 400 20 regularly conducts with stakeholders, during 2015–2016, the Bank also carried out a more 0 0 detailed dialogue with representatives from the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bank’s main stakeholder groups. The dialogue No. of shareholders Proportion of votes was conducted with stakeholders in the Bank’s present/represented home markets. The purpose was partly to conﬁrm that the sustainability topics previously identiﬁed Society by the Bank as being the most material still correHandelsbanken has a continuous dialogue spond to stakeholders’ views, and partly to better with supervisory authorities, central banks and understand what these external parties expect from regulatory bodies as well as with governments the Bank in terms of sustainability. The analysis and parliaments, in Sweden, the EU and the was based on a broad spectrum of questions that rest of the world. Increasingly, sustainability is are particularly relevant to Handelsbanken – partly H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 45 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Key figures for sustainability Based on the stakeholder dialogue for deﬁning Handelsbanken’s most material sustainability topics, a number of relevant key ﬁgures have been compiled below. The key ﬁgures are organised in the same way as the Bank’s material sustainability topics and grouped in six sub-areas. KEY FIGURES FOR SUSTAINABILITY The Bank and its customers 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Customer satisfaction – private customers, SKI/EPSI index Sweden 68.9 67.6 72.4 74.3 74.2 UK 85.2 83.5 83.6 83.8 83.8 Denmark 76.8 77.7 77.7 76.5 76.6 Finland 79.6 80.1 81.9 81.5 81.7 Norway 77.5 74.2 75.8 74.9 75.0 The Netherlands 78.0 74.1 73.5 73.3 70.9 Customer satisfaction – corporate customers, SKI/EPSI index Sweden 67.5 69.4 74.1 73.4 71.1 UK 83.8 81.6 80.7 83.1 82.3 Denmark 72.3 75.7 72.2 73.2 72.6 Finland 78.7 77.5 76.4 77.0 78.8 Norway 72.5 69.9 69.7 67.6 68.6 The Netherlands 72.4 71.9 72.8 66.4 69.0 The Bank’s role in the community 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of branches, home markets 807 819 848 831 803 Only local bank, home markets 66 59 68 59 59 Number of local collaborations and activities > 400 > 400 Total taxes and government fees, SEK bn 10 8 8 8 7 Loan losses as a percentage of lending 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.07 Total emissions of greenhouse gases, CO2e, tonnes 9 967 10 344 12 603 14 848 17 141 of which scope 1 – direct emissions 86 51 28 28 47 The Bank’s indirect impact 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Criteria funds as a percentage of total fund volume 1 32 29 17 12 Assets under management in Criteria funds, SEK bn 221 166 93 57 Green bonds – volume arranged, SEK bn 8.3 5.2 3.0 2.7 1.3 Total emissions of greenhouse gases, CO2e, tonnes 9 967 10 344 12 603 14 848 17 141 of which scope 2 – indirect emissions 5 654 6 328 8 527 10 264 12 306 of which scope 3 – other indirect emissions 4 227 3 965 4 048 4 557 4 787 The Bank as an employer 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Average number of employees 11 832 11 759 11 819 11 692 11 503 Proportion women/men, % All employees 49/51 50/50 50/50 51/49 52/48 Managers 40/60 40/60 39/61 37/63 38/62 Senior Management 32/68 29/71 22/78 25/75 19/81 Internal recruitment of managers, Group % 92 93 93 93 90 Internal recruitment of managers, Sweden % 97 99 99 100 98 Staff turnover, Group % 4.7 4.0 3.0 3.2 2.9 Staff turnover, Sweden % 3.9 3.1 2.1 2.2 1.8 Sickness absence rate, % Sweden 3.0 3.2 3.0 2.7 3.0 UK 1.0 1.0 1.1 Denmark 1.0 1.3 1.3 Finland 1.8 1.9 1.4 Norway 3.0 3.1 3.6 3.3 3.6 The Netherlands 2.8 2.9 1.8 2.2 2.4 The Bank’s business culture 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Suppliers that have signed the Bank’s code of conduct (per cent of total purchased volume) 73.0 73.0 Number of employees who have completed training in ethical standards, sustainability, and anti-corruption 2 Sweden 7 136 UK 2 182 Denmark 708 Finland 516 Norway 736 The Netherlands 256 Others 335 The Bank as an investment 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Return on equity, % 12.3 13.1 13.5 13.4 13.9 Economic value creation (according to GRI), SEK bn 38.0 37.7 39.8 37.7 36.2 1 The fund volume is based on Handelsbanken’s own mutual funds in the Nordic market and mutual funds managed by Optimix (the Netherlands), and the percentage of total fund volume refers to volume after eliminations on consolidation. The percentage for 2016 has been adjusted for comparability. 2 Refers to permanent and temporary employees. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 46 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Managing customer complaints The Group Chief Executive establishes guidelines Facts: The Bank and Customer complaints must be dealt with corfor information security at Handelsbanken. All its customers rectly, carefully and as efﬁciently as possible. First, the complaint is managed by the local employees in the Bank are responsible for compliance with the rules for protection of information, SATISFIED CUSTOMERS branch responsible. If the customer decides to and all managers are responsible for compliance Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction pursue the matter, each regional bank in each with the rules in their own area of responsibility. surveys very important. Every year, EPSI Rating – home market has a designated complaints ofﬁcer. Information security work is pursued in accordwhich includes SKI (Swedish quality index) – carries In addition, there are complaints ofﬁcers at the ance with the ISO 27001 international standard. out independent surveys of customer satisfaction. Group level. Complaints ofﬁcers at the Group This means that any risks are identiﬁed on a reguThis year’s surveys showed that Handelsbanken level regularly report to Senior Management and lar basis and that internal rules are produced so has more satisﬁed private and corporate customers product owners. Information about how the that the information is protected over time. than the average for the banking sector in all of the Bank manages complaints is easily available at The Bank’s work with information security and Bank’s six home markets. handelsbanken.com. IT security, as well as its management of sensitive Handelsbanken Sweden information, is also governed by international and Financial advisory services As in previous years, SKI (Swedish Quality Index) national legislation. In ﬁnancial advisory services provided when found in its 2017 survey that Handelsbanken In 2017, 18 incidents (11) relating to customer granting credit and in insurance mediation, the has more satisﬁed customers than the other privacy or poor management of customer data were Bank always considers the customer’s overall major Swedish banks. Among private customers, reported. None of the reports was received via govsituation and ﬁnancial circumstances. Using this Handelsbanken earned a score of 68.9, an ernment authorities. A total of 16 were complaints knowledge, we can provide guidance on ﬁnancincrease from 2016. The other major Swedish received from customers and were found substantiing, payments or investments that is adapted to banks scored between 52.9 and 64.5. ated by the Head of Information Security; two were each customer’s individual requirements. We Corporate customers gave Handelsbanken a identiﬁed internally. All cases have been managed focus on the customer’s needs – not individual rating of 67.5, while the other major banks scored with the parties affected. products or services. between 53.6 and 62.2. The Bank’s information security regulations When providing investment advice, we adapt are based on the Standard of Good Practice Handelsbanken UK the proposal to the customer’s goals, interests, developed by Information Security Forum (ISF), an Customer satisfaction increased strongly among savings horizon, and attitude to risk. We consider organisation where most of the largest companies both private and corporate customers despite it essential for the customer to understand the risk in the world are members. The work with informalower customer satisfaction for the banking associated with each type of ﬁnancial instrument tion and IT security is pursued systematically, and sector overall. Handelsbanken’s scores were its as well as to have the knowledge and experience we apply a process where risk analysis plays a highest to date: 85.2 among private customers, needed to invest in the product or service selected. central role. The risk analyses are performed using and 83.8 among corporate customers. The information the Bank provides to customers the IRAM method (ISF’s Information Risk Analysis must be clear, factual and easy to understand, and Methodology). Handelsbanken Denmark the terms and conditions for the Bank’s services The conditions for IT security are constantly EPSI’s annual customer satisfaction survey must be clear and not changed arbitrarily. changing. Thus Handelsbanken needs to continushowed that Handelsbanken once again had the The current regulations for ﬁnancial advisory ously evaluate and take a stand on new potential most satisﬁed customers of all banks in Denmark. services and insurance mediation require that all threats in this area. By continuously following up Private customers gave the Bank a score of 76.8, employees who provide customers with advice events which occur both within and outside our compared to the sector average of 71.1. On the concerning investments and insurance have releoperations, it is easier to take the right action at the corporate side, the score was 72.3, compared to vant, up-to-date skills. Handelsbanken has broad right time. To this end, the Bank participates and the sector average of 68.6. expertise in investment advisory services and collaborates in international forums. For several complies with the regulatory requirements from the Handelsbanken Finland years, Handelsbanken has been a ‘listed team’ in EU and local supervisory authorities in all six of the According to EPSI’s annual customer satisfaction the Trusted Introducer community (a European Bank’s home markets. Handelsbanken has about survey, Handelsbanken had more satisﬁed network for IT security) and a full member of the 4,500 employees permitted to provide investment customers than the average for banks in Finland. Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams advice. All of these are licensed to provide advisory Private customers gave Handelsbanken a score (FIRST). Handelsbanken also participates in FIDI services concerning ﬁnancial instruments and of 79.6, compared to the sector average of 75.9. Finans, a forum for sharing information between they update their knowledge every year through Corporate customers gave the Bank a score of the government, the business community and mandatory professional training. During the year, 78.7, compared to the sector average of 77.1. other relevant organisations in Sweden regarding broad training programmes were carried out to information security in the ﬁnancial sector. The Handelsbanken Norway further strengthen staff skills in this area. System forum is led by the Swedish Civil Contingencies According to EPSI’s annual customer satisfaction support for documenting investment advice and Agency (MSB). survey, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed insurance mediation has also been improved. corporate customers of any bank in Norway, and on the private side Handelsbanken had more INTEGRITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY – INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY Facts: The Bank’s role satisﬁed customers than the average for banks in Norway. Private customers gave Handelsbanken a Work with the Bank’s information security and IT in the community security involves protecting customers’ information score of 77.5, compared to the sector average of FINANCIAL ASPECTS and transactions and also the Bank’s IT environ70.9. Corporate customers gave the Bank a score Handelsbanken’s Annual Report contains a ment. Information security covers administrative of 72.5, compared to the sector average of 69.3. complete account of the ﬁnancial aspects of the systems, such as rules and instructions, as well operations, but the most important key ﬁgures Handelsbanken the Netherlands as technical security solutions. connected with ﬁnancial aspects and sustainability EPSI’s annual customer satisfaction survey showed It is important that the Bank actively works with are reported below and on page 46. that Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed cusIT security to meet possible threats, and that there tomers of all banks in the Netherlands – among are procedures for managing changes in the IT Lower loan losses private as well as corporate customers. Private environment so that no breaches occur. If processHandelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This customers gave the Bank a score of 78.0, coming were to prove faulty, or if information were to means that the quality of credits must never be pared to the sector average of 68.3. Corporate be released by mistake, the consequences could neglected in favour of achieving higher volume customers gave Handelsbanken a score of 72.4, be serious, including weakened conﬁdence in the or a higher margin. compared to the sector average of 62.3. Bank or ﬁnancial losses. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 47 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Outcome Total taxes and government fees 2017, SEK 10.5 bn Taxes withheld for customers and employees 2017, SEK 5.4 bn Loan losses were SEK -1,683 million (-1,724). Loan losses as a proportion of lending were 0.08 Corporate tax Taxes withheld (current tax) 53% for customers 42% per cent (0.09). For the most recent 10-year Social security costs 19% Taxes withheld period – that is, since 2008 – the Bank’s average Fees for resolution for employees 58% loan loss ratio has been 0.10 per cent. This can reserve and deposit guarantee 18% be compared with the average for the other major Non-deductible VAT 10% Nordic banks during the same period: 0.27 per cent. Handelsbanken Group 2017 2016 Proﬁt before loan losses, SEK m 22 694 22 325 Geographical information 2017 Net loan losses, SEK m -1 683 -1 724 Fees for Operating proﬁt, SEK m 21 025 20 633 the Swedish Return on equity for total Social resolution operations 12.3% 13.1% Operating Corporate tax security reserve, deposit No. of SEK m Income proﬁt (current tax) costs guarantee, etc. Assets employees Loan loss ratio 0.08% 0.09% Sweden 26 156 15 405 -4 002 -1 532 -1 465 2 318 258 7 020* Loan losses as a percentage of lending UK 5 331 1 325 -400 -192 -173 336 772 2 151 % Norway 4 024 2 471 -587 -121 -191 264 918 750 Denmark 2 230 403 -93 -93 -73 134 060 653 1.2 Finland 1 994 906 -191 -18 -101 221 016 623 1.0 United States 461 207 4 -7 310 693 67 The Netherlands 740 216 -65 -28 -19 48 373 284 0.8 Luxembourg 195 51 -18 -8 -1 33 125 57 Germany 87 -11 -28 -5 10 569 42 0.6 China 223 112 -13 0 8 789 71 0.4 France 55 3 -1 -4 3 704 7 Poland 44 -23 -2 -3 2 338 39 0.2 Singapore 111 -17 -2 0 10 112 36 Estonia 14 -5 -2 1 444 18 0.0 Austria 3 0 0 0 2 Latvia 4 -9 -1 466 7 -0.2 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 Lithuania 2 -9 -1 128 5 Eliminations -937 783 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Group 41 674 21 025 -5 398 -2 015 -2 023 2 766 977 11 832 * Only Swedish banks are included for the period up * Includes 10 employees at the Bank’s representative ofﬁces. to and including 2000. Capital The table, which is laid out according to GRI principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is The Bank’s goal is that its common equity tier 1 allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. ratio under normal circumstances should exceed Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) by 1–3 percentage points the common equity tier Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders 1 capital requirement communicated to the Bank SEK bn 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED The tier 1 ratio and the total capital ratio must also Customers be at least 1 percentage point above the total Income after loan losses and before fees for the Swedish resolution capital requirement communicated to the Bank reserve, deposit guarantee, etc. 38.0 37.7 39.8 37.7 36.2 by the Supervisory Authority for the respective Value created by serving customers 38.0 37.7 39.8 37.7 36.2 capital tiers. Additionally, the Bank must fulﬁl any ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE other capital requirements set by the regulators. Employees Outcome Salaries 8.4 8.1 8.0 7.6 7.1 The common equity tier 1 ratio was 22.7 per cent Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation (incl. social security costs) 0.8 0.9 0.8 1.1 (25.1). At the same time, the Bank estimates that Social security costs and other staff costs 3.3 4.4 3.7 3.4 3.2 Cost of employees 12.5 12.5 12.6 11.8 11.4 the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s common equity tier 1 capital requirement at the Public authorities and society at large end of the year was 20.2 per cent. The Bank’s Suppliers* 6.5 5.9 5.7 5.6 5.7 capitalisation was thus within the target range. Corporate tax (current tax) 5.4 5.2 4.9 4.5 4.9 Deferred tax -0.5 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -1.0 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV Fees for the Swedish resolution reserve, deposit guarantee, etc. 2.0 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.1 % Government bank support received 25 Participation in government guarantee programmes 20 To society 13.4 11.6 11.1 10.9 10.7 Shareholders 15 Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 9.7 11.4 11.1 10.5 6.8 10 New share issue 5 Transactions with the shareholders 9.7 11.4 11.1 10.5 6.8 Reinvested economic value (‘remaining in the Bank’) 2.4 2.2 5.0 4.5 7.3 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. The table of direct economic value created and delivered shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s operations Political independence during the year was allocated among various stakeholders. The calculation is based on the ﬁgures in the income statement Handelsbanken is not allied to any political parties. and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. The items allocated in the table are based on broader value created where salaries, The Bank does not provide any ﬁnancial support depreciation/amortisation, and other administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the operating proﬁt. The purpose is to show in a basic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its stakeholders and in the economic system in which the organisation to any political party, nor does it make any other works. The table provides an overview of the direct measurable monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its staketype of political donation. holders, and thus to development in the community. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 48 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Taxes and allocated economic value Handelsbanken has business relations. The UK Systematic environmental work Handelsbanken wishes to provide transparent Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires that certain At Handelsbanken we take responsibility for how ﬁnancial reporting on how the economic value organisations annually state the actions that they our operations affect the environment. We strive to generated by the operations is allocated. The Bank have taken to ensure that modern slavery and minimise our direct as well as our indirect impact on pays and reports tax based on local regulations in human trafﬁcking do not occur in their supply the environment, such as through granting of credits, the countries where it operates. Handelsbanken chains or in their operations. purchasing and the investments we make on behalf complies with the OECD Transfer Pricing GuideInternal instructions and procedures are in of our customers. We will achieve this by: lines, such that the Group’s earnings are taxed place, so that employees understand how to act • integrating environmental sustainability in all where value is created. The Bank also prepares a if they are faced with or suspect a case of modern business operations country-by-country report showing the Group’s slavery or human trafﬁcking. • making long-term sustainable business decisions earnings and tax in the countries where its More information and a statement on the that take environmental factors into consideration operations are run. Modern Slavery Act 2015 may be found at • setting environmental requirements in all central handelsbanken.co.uk. procurements and ensuring that these are MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN complied with TRAFFICKING DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT • encouraging environmental awareness and Handelsbanken does not accept any form of child Systematic environmental work is continually environmental competence among employees labour, slave labour or human trafﬁcking; it works done at Handelsbanken to steadily reduce the • constantly developing our environmental activito prevent the occurrence of these in the Group’s environmental impact of operations. This is ties, so that the Bank’s environmental impact is supply chain and in other companies with which monitored using an array of key ﬁgures that show continuously minimised how the work is progressing. • monitoring and measuring the Bank’s impact on the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA General information Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Number of branches reporting 806 809 827 815 791 Total ofﬁce space reported m2 450 532 456 838 455 176 459 422 458 071 Number of employees covered by environmental data 1 persons 11 471 11 373 11 407 11 271 11 070 Proportion of total number of employees % 97 97 97 96 96 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2e) Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Emissions Scope 12 tonnes 86 51 28 28 47 Emissions Scope 2 3 tonnes 5 654 6 328 8 527 10 264 12 306 Emissions Scope 2 without GO electricity tonnes 10 024 10 199 10 438 11 415 12 908 Emissions Scope 3 4 tonnes 4 227 3 965 4 048 4 557 4 787 Total emissions tonnes 9 967 10 344 12 603 14 848 17 141 Total emissions per employee tonnes/employee 0.87 0.91 1.10 1.32 1.55 Emissions of greenhouse gases by source (CO2e) Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Emissions from energy use (in buildings) tonnes 5 731 6 371 8 548 10 285 12 349 Emissions from business travel tonnes 3 832 3 362 3 243 3 464 3 555 Emissions from other sources tonnes 404 610 812 1 100 1 237 Emissions by country (CO2e) Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Sweden tonnes 4 542 4 455 4 632 5 542 7 337 UK tonnes 3 003 3 622 5 686 5 641 4 923 Denmark tonnes 620 609 680 934 1 924 Finland tonnes 698 689 689 1 381 1 716 Norway 5 tonnes 482 421 430 889 848 The Netherlands tonnes 622 547 486 461 394 Energy consumption Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Total energy consumption (in buildings) MWh 101 355 105 854 107 273 111 670 120 913 Electricity consumption MWh 45 308 48 048 49 716 52 404 55 694 Change in electricity consumption from preceding year % -5.7 -3.4 -5.1 -5.9 1.9 Proportion renewable electricity 6 % 99 96 87 72 73 Total electricity consumption per employee MWh/employee 3.9 4.2 4.4 4.6 5.0 Use of heating and cooling MWh 56 047 57 806 57 557 59 266 65 220 Business travel Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Total business travel km 31 909 038 27 719 588 28 319 984 29 207 595 29 697 980 Business travel per employee km/employee 2 782 2 437 2 483 2 591 2 683 Travel by air km 21 531 214 18 034 955 17 481 188 17 797 767 18 584 368 Travel by car km 7 558 391 7 080 995 7 163 074 7 452 892 7 203 086 Travel by train km 2 819 433 2 603 638 3 675 722 3 956 936 3 910 526 Resource efﬁciency Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Paper use tonnes 1 159 1 214 1 465 1 447 1 605 Paper use per employee tonnes/employee 0.10 0.11 0.13 0.13 0.15 1 Number of employees according to the definition in the Annual Report. 2 Scope 1 – Direct emissions from stationary combustion of diesel, city gas and Eo1. 3 Scope 2 – Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling. 4 Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions from business travel, transport and use of paper. 5 The calculation of emissions from heating has been updated to better reflect actual conditions. 6 Refers to electricity from wind power and hydroelectric power. * 2013 was the year when the Bank acquired its current structure, with six home markets, and is the base year for Handelsbanken’s comparisons of emissions over time. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 49 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Total CO2e emissions CO2e emissions from energy consumption Tonnes Tonnes CO2e/employee Tonnes MWh/employee Facts: The Bank’s 20,000 2.0 15,000 6 indirect impact 16,000 1.6 12,500 5 Handelsbanken must act responsibly and with 1.2 10,000 4 a long-term perspective. Through responsible 12,000 7,500 3 lending and responsible investment, we can 8,000 0.8 5,000 2 contribute to greater respect for human rights, 4,000 0.4 working conditions and environmental concerns. 2,500 1 0 0.0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 BUSINESS RELATIONS Emissions from energy CO2e/employee Emissions from heating Electricity Guidelines regarding business relations with Emissions from business travel and cooling consumption/ the armaments and defence industry Other emissions Emissions from electricity employee Handelsbanken’s Guidelines for business relations with the armaments and defence industry state Energy and carbon dioxide • Further increase the level of awareness internthat the Bank must not have business relations The Bank’s direct impact derives mainly from ally by means of information and training with companies that manufacture or trade in energy consumption, business travel and transregarding measures to reduce the Bank’s direct weapons that are prohibited under international port, and use of resources such as paper. We climate impact. One aim of this is to enable all conventions. This includes biological weapons, measure our material environmental impact in our parts of the organisation to contribute effectively chemical weapons, anti-personnel mines and six home markets. These markets represent 97 to reducing energy consumption. cluster munitions. Nor can Handelsbanken have per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. • Increase the amount of recycled refuse. business relations with companies that manufacWe are working to minimise the carbon dioxide • Reduce the amount of energy used. ture or trade in nuclear weapons, or with companies emissions generated in our operations. For 2017, • Reduce the amount of business travel by that export weapons to countries under a UN or total carbon dioxide emissions from Handelsfacilitating the use of video conferences. EU embargo. banken’s operations were 9,967 tonnes, down • Further develop the Group’s digital services for 4 per cent from the preceding year, mainly customers, via computers, telephones, and Guidelines regarding business relations with because the Bank increased the proportion of tablets, and for branches and internal units in companies with operations within fossil fuels renewable electricity. Since 2013, the Bank order to reduce paper consumption. Handelsbanken has guidelines for business has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by • Continue to develop systems so as to measure relations with companies active in the extraction 42 per cent. more exactly our use of resources and direct of fossil fuels or energy production based on The Bank’s electricity consumption decreased environmental impact. fossil fuels. According to the guidelines, Handelsby 6 per cent in 2017 compared with 2016. The banken must not ﬁnance new mining of coal for proportion of renewable electricity is 100 per cent Climate compensation combustion or new coal power plants, nor initiate for Nordic operations and 99 per cent for all home Handelsbanken works constantly to minimise new business relationships with companies markets. the emissions generated by the operations. At operating in coal mining that are not working present, it is not possible in practical terms to actively to ensure a transition to renewable energy More efﬁcient equipment and utilisation completely eliminate the Bank’s emissions, so the sources. of resources Bank purchases carbon offsets for the reported Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly carbon dioxide emissions that the operations Guidelines regarding business relations in being made which, together, are reducing envigenerate. The Bank compensates through CDM forestry and farming ronmental and climate impact. projects (Clean Development Mechanism), which Handelsbanken has guidelines for how the Bank • Environmental checklist for branches and are UN-registered projects with veriﬁed climate should approach business relations in forestry central departments. The environmental beneﬁts. The projects are certiﬁed based on the and farming. The guidelines specify the aspects checklist consists of concrete actions for Gold Standard, a certiﬁcation endorsed by more that we must take into consideration when reducing environmental impact, such as than 80 non-governmental organisations (NGOs) granting credits, for example that we expect choosing better means of transport and that ensures the projects contribute to long-term customers, suppliers and business partners replacing lighting for better energy efﬁciency. sustainable development. to respect the rights of employees, minimise • All employees in the Group have taken courses negative environmental impact, preserve bioin sustainability that include the environment Method description for environmental data logical diversity, prevent deforestation, and and climate change as material topics. The climate calculations were done according to conserve forests meriting protection. • In 2017, the number of video conferences that Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accountcould replace business travel was up by 84 per ing and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). INVESTMENT PROCESS cent from 2016. Data for speciﬁc units has been used to Handelsbanken strives for sustainable develop• By improving processes in the Bank’s online calculate emissions from energy use. When ment – in ﬁnancial, social and environmental services and other digital services, we have speciﬁc data is missing, usage is estimated using terms – in the companies in which the Bank reduced the number of paper communications numbers from adjacent units or energy statistics. invests. We do so based on the Bank’s policies to customers in Sweden by 12 per cent. Work The sources for emission factors are generally and on common norms set out in international to further reduce the number of paper commuaccepted sources such as national energy conventions and guidelines. nications will continue in 2018. agencies, sector organisations and energy companies. Emissions connected with business How we work as responsible investors Measures to reduce the Bank’s environmental travel, transport and use of paper are reported Criteria related to the environment, social issues impact within the framework of Scope 3. Emissions and corporate governance (ESG) are integrated To reduce the Bank’s environmental impact, reporting under Scope 3 is based on documentawith ﬁnancial criteria to produce better background further work on the following initiatives are tion from external parties, such as travel agencies documentation for decisions in the investment planned for the next few years. regarding emissions related to air travel. For more process. The following three steps are common in-depth information about how emissions are starting points for this work. calculated, please see the Bank’s reports to CDP. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 50 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS have policies or principles for systematic sustaincollaboration with other asset owners and through Inclusion ability work and must periodically screen its sector initiatives. In 2017, we engaged with 251 Active equity and ﬁxed income management mutual funds. companies through dialogues on speciﬁc sustain– selecting companies ability topics. These dialogues have covered topics In active asset management, analysis is paramount. such as corruption, environmental destruction Exclusion It is based on identifying and investing in compaand labour laws. A list of these companies is Companies that our funds exclude nies with the right sustainability perspective. published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. There are companies that do not act in line with The sustainability analysis helps identify risks in During the year, we also initiated 23 targeted the values which we at Handelsbanken respect. companies’ business models and helps ﬁnd dialogues intended to proactively inﬂuence how One example of such companies are those companies at the forefront of the transition to companies work towards sustainability. In our involved in nuclear weapons and weapons that sustainable operations. regular contacts with company management and are banned under international law. All companies Index management – selecting indexes analysts, we also receive information about how in our funds are screened periodically with the aim Index management is a rules-based management the companies work with sustainability. In 2017, of identifying companies that fail to meet internaapproach in which no company analysis is done; our asset managers had meetings with some tional norms and conventions in areas such as instead, the fund management company decides 1,500 companies, to monitor their business the environment, human rights and anti-corrupthat its funds will track the index whose method methods, performance and opportunities. tion. An appropriate course of action is then and composition reﬂect the values of the fund determined for each fund to handle the compaInﬂuence through active corporate management company with respect to sustainnies identiﬁed. Our last resort for companies that governance ability. A vital part of sustainability work is to systematically violate international norms and In Handelsbanken Asset Management, the Bank encourage in the long-term the creation of more conventions, and in which we ﬁnd no improveexercises its ownership role in the companies in sustainability-oriented indexes and tracking ment, is exclusion. As part of our climate efforts, which its mutual funds own shares on behalf of the based on sustainability criteria. During the year, our mutual funds do not invest in companies if fund unit holders. The goal is that the companies this work was an enormous area of focus, and the more than ﬁve per cent of the company’s turnover achieve optimum value performance in the long Index management group strengthened the susderives from coal mining or more than 30 per cent term, beneﬁtting our fund savers. For companies tainability proﬁle of our index funds by replacing derives from coal power generation. A list of some in which our mutual funds are a major shareholder, the indexes that Handelsbanken’s global index of the companies that we exclude is available at we are eager to participate in the work of nominafunds track. This has resulted in all global index handelsbanken.se/responsibleinvestments. tion committees to inﬂuence the composition of funds now tracking indexes that take into account the companies’ boards. Ahead of annual general Mutual funds that Handelsbanken Liv sustainability factors. meetings (AGMs) in 2017, Asset Management excludes Mutual fund portfolios – selecting funds Handelsbanken Liv strives to exclude funds that participated in the work of 33 nomination comIn our mutual fund portfolios, the asset managers invest in companies with signiﬁcant operations mittees, and ahead of the 2018 AGMs, we will do not invest directly in individual companies; that mine coal for combustion or generate coalparticipate in all nomination committees for which instead, they invest in other funds. These fund ﬁred power. In addition, Handelsbanken Liv we qualify. In such nomination work, we especially investments can include Handelsbanken’s own avoids funds that invest in companies involved emphasise gender equality and diversity, for funds as well as mutual funds from external fund in the manufacture or distribution of nuclear example by striving for a more even gender management companies. Fund investments are weapons and weapons banned under internadistribution on the boards of Swedish companies. selected and followed up in a process that takes tional law, such as cluster munitions, anti-personThe proportion of women on the boards of listed into account sustainability criteria at the mutual nel mines, chemical weapons and biological Swedish companies has increased in recent fund and fund management company levels. Such weapons. Handelsbanken Liv’s fund selection years but has a long way to go before reaching criteria include systematic sustainability work and committee compiles such reviews and prepares gender balance, particularly in small and mediumdue consideration of international norms and supporting documentation to determine which sized companies. The proportion of women on the conventions. In addition, any holdings that could be mutual funds will be included in or removed from boards of small and medium-sized companies judged as deviating from Handelsbanken’s policy – its range of funds. Decisions are made by the where we have been involved in the nomination for example, concerning weapons prohibited subsidiary’s Chief Executive. committee was on average 38 per cent, which is under international law – are also followed up. higher than the average for that segment. In 2017, Handelsbanken Liv – selecting funds Handelsbanken Asset Management voted at 267 Engagement Handelsbanken Liv strives to offer mutual funds AGMs, 112 of these held by Swedish companies. Engagement and inﬂuence that integrate sustainability in their investment We have also voted in favour of several shareEngagement with companies in which we are process and make efforts to contribute to sustainholder motions on sustainability topics. shareholders is an important way for us to conable development. Financial, social and environtribute to sustainable development. This applies Corporate governance 2017 2016 mental sustainability are taken into account in both to proactive dialogue aimed at inﬂuencing Nomination committees* 33 30 the assessment and selection of which mutual companies to improve their sustainability activiAnnual general meetings* 267 153 funds to offer. Investments in mutual funds and in ties, and to dialogue with companies which we in Swedish companies 112 82 investment products are preceded by an assessfeel do not comply with the international norms in non-Swedish companies 155 71 ment of the fund management company as well and conventions that Handelsbanken Asset as the investment product. For example, to be Management respects. We work to inﬂuence * No. of occurrences. included among the mutual funds Handelsbanken companies on our own, through direct contact As owners, Asset Management also works to offers, each fund management company must with companies, but also to a great extent in improve transparency and climate reporting as well as to inﬂuence the companies in which we Asset management Handelsbanken Liv invest to run their operations in a more climateTo more clearly delineate Handelsbanken’s range of Through its subsidiary Handelsbanken Liv, Handelsfriendly way. We do this within the frameworks for actively managed mutual funds and index-based banken offers pension solutions and other insurance funds, the fund operations are conducted by two sepsolutions for private and corporate customers. The sector initiatives such as CDP and PRI and by arate companies. Actively managed funds are offered majority of customers’ pension capital is managed supporting shareholder motions on these topics by Handelsbanken Fonder AB, while index-based and by Handelsbanken Asset Management, making it at the companies’ AGMs. exchange-traded funds are offered by Xact Kapitalförthe largest provider of Handelsbanken Liv’s tradivaltning AB. Handelsbanken also offers mutual funds tional pension management and unit-linked fund Inﬂuencing external fund managers managed by fund management companies in Luxemmanagement during the year. Handelsbanken Liv is working to inﬂuence external bourg (SICAV). All fund management companies are fund managers to pursue sustainable development. subsidiaries of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). By screening and comparing the working methods H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 51 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS of the fund management companies, Handelsbanken Liv can encourage external fund managers Facts: The Bank as work-related situations, having pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, respecting others, and being to advance their own sustainability efforts. All funds on offer are regularly screened to identify holdings an employer respected oneself. Absence due to sickness for staff in the Bank’s In a decentralised operation focusing on customers, in companies that systematically violate internasix home markets was 2.5 per cent (2.6). For staff it is crucial that every employee works according tional norms in areas such as the environment, in Sweden, the rate was 3.0 per cent (3.2), of to clear common goals and values. human rights, labour law, anti-corruption and which 1.3 percentage points (1.3) referred to controversial weapons. If the evaluation of a mutual those on long-term sick leave. STAFF TURNOVER fund indicates non-compliance with these norms, a The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations dialogue is initiated with the fund manager with the Sickness absence by with both customers and employees. It sees each home market 2017 aim of inﬂuencing the manager to review the fund’s recruitment as important and long term. Employees holdings. If engagement with the asset manager % Men Women Total with long experience and with broad knowledge does not lead to a change, the mutual fund may Sweden 2.0 3.9 3.0 from the whole Bank make a vital contribution to be excluded from the offering as a result. During UK 0.6 1.4 1.0 the Bank having satisﬁed customers. the year, the application of these guidelines was Denmark 0.8 1.2 1.0 At year-end, 86 per cent (89) of managers in made clearer in policy documents, with regard to Finland 1.3 2.3 1.8 each home market’s management team had management approach and asset class. Norway 2.0 4.2 3.0 been recruited in that country. The Netherlands* 2.8 External staff turnover was low, at 4.5 per cent EQUATOR PRINCIPLES Total sickness absence 1.6 3.3 2.5 (3.9) for the six home markets and 3.9 per cent (3.1) As of mid-2016, Handelsbanken applies the Total sickness absence 0.5 1.4 1.0 for Sweden. For the Group, it was 4.7 per cent (4.0). Equator Principles for new project ﬁnance com* National legislation does not permit the reporting of mitments, for implementation and reporting. The Staff turnover 2017* sickness absence broken down by gender. Principles are a framework that provides guidance % to ﬁnancial institutions for assessing social and 8 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of environmental risks in project ﬁnance. The Principles 7 total normal working hours. Long-term absence are speciﬁcally adapted to project ﬁnance but are 6 is a period of absence of 60 days or more. also applicable to ﬁnancial advisory services in 5 4 connection with projects, bridging loans and REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 3 other project-related corporate credits. 2 Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer Each project is categorised based on an 1 and offers competitive terms of employment for assessment of the potential social or environmental 0 all employees – temporary as well as permanent. Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherrisks inherent in that particular project. Based on lands In addition to the beneﬁts stipulated by law, this, the framework provides guidance about * Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. regulations, collective bargaining agreements which actions the ﬁnancier should take to move Number of employees who leave the Bank (excluding and other local agreements, we offer beneﬁts that forward with a decision to ﬁnance the project. retirements and deaths) as a proportion of all employees. promote our view of long-term employment, gender Possible actions might include a report of the equality and participation in Handelsbanken’s Handelsbanken promotes long-term employment project’s impact and planned activities or actions results. by offering training for every employee and opporto counteract the negative environmental or tunities to develop on a personal level in different Gender breakdown, Group social impact, systematic stakeholder dialogue, roles. If employment ceases for any reason other % establishing a grievance mechanism or obtaining than retirement, the Bank can offer outplacement, 70 independent assessments. Handelsbanken has for example, with the help of external partners. 65 not carried out any project ﬁnance commitments 60 according to the Equator Principles since joining. 55 GENDER EQUALITY 50 In the Group as a whole, 40 per cent (40) of manTCFD 45 agers were women; the corresponding ﬁgure for 40 The effects of global warming will impact the world the total number of employees in the Group was 35 economy to an ever greater extent, with conse30 49 per cent (50). At year-end, 47 per cent (48) of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 quences for companies in numerous sectors, the Bank’s managers in Sweden were women; including ﬁnancial services. For this reason, the Percentage of women in the Group the corresponding ﬁgure for the total number of Percentage of men in the Group international Task Force on Climate-related Finanemployees in Sweden was 52 per cent (53). Percentage of managers in the Group cial Disclosure (TCFD) was formed. who are women In 2016, the Bank signed the Women in The Task Force has formulated recommendaPercentage of managers in the Group who are men Finance Charter in the UK, an initiative from HM tions for correcting deﬁciencies in information on Treasury, making a commitment to work for a companies’ work on and management of climate Gender breakdown, Sweden more even gender balance in the ﬁnancial sector. change. A central component covering the ﬁnan% Handelsbanken in the UK has set a goal of 30 per cial sector consists of expanded reporting of 70 cent women managers by 2021 and 40 per cent exposures to assets associated with climate risks. 65 by 2026. In 2017, the proportion of managers in 60 In 2017, Handelsbanken began work to implethe UK who are women increased from 20 per 55 ment the TCFD recommendations. Together with 50 cent to 22 per cent. the 2° Investing Initiative, a non-governmental 45 organisation (NGO) specialising in analysing ﬁnan40 SICKNESS ABSENCE cial risks related to climate change, we performed 35 Handelsbanken aims for all its employees to enjoy 30 an initial analysis of climate-related transitional risk 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 good health, develop on a personal level and in Handelsbanken’s asset management operafunction in an optimum way. This is a long-term Percentage of women in Sweden tions* and credit portfolio. The results indicate that Percentage of men in Sweden goal that includes factors such as clear and Handelsbanken is in line with the 2-degree target. Percentage of managers in Sweden honest communication, having the skills and who are women * Handelsbanken Fonder AB, Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB and right conditions to perform tasks and deal with Percentage of managers in Sweden who are men Handelsbanken Funds SICAV. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 52 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Gender breakdown – branch managers 2017 Employees’ total remuneration should help to regulations. This means that parents receive 80 to % develop the Handelsbanken Group’s competitive100 per cent of their salaries over a limited period. 100 ness and proﬁtability by attracting, retaining and Employees who take parental leave have the developing skilled staff and ensuring the Bank’s same right to salary dialogue reviews as other 80 management succession. This is stated in the staff. Of those who took parental leave in 2017 in 60 Bank’s policy on remuneration, determined by the the Bank’s home markets, 55 per cent (64) were 40 Bank’s Board. The Board is responsible for the women and 45 per cent (36) men. Almost all of policy being applied and takes decisions to follow these employees returned to work. 20 up on it. Once a year the Bank’s remuneration In the Bank’s home markets, employees are 0 committee must make an assessment of the offered credits on special terms. These credits are Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherlands policy and the remuneration system and report it mainly granted for housing purposes. The terms Women Men to the Board. and conditions differ between countries depending on local circumstances, and in some countries An attractive employer Beneﬁts and pensions they are a taxable beneﬁt. Handelsbanken wishes to be an attractive employer Handelsbanken offers various types of competiHealth and health promotion are vital to ensurthat meets its employees’ needs during various tive beneﬁts, for both permanent and temporary ing our employees enjoy good health, develop on phases of their life in a ﬂexible way. Collective employees of the Group; these differ between the a personal level and function in an optimal way. bargaining agreements are the foundation of the countries. In 2017, the proportion of permanent The Bank encourages this by granting subsidies conditions the Bank offers to both temporary and employees was 94 per cent (95). for various health promotion activities. permanent employees. At Handelsbanken, we Handelsbanken aims to make it easier for women Other forms of beneﬁts offered include insurance have individual salaries which are decided in the and men to combine employment with parentand company cars. salary dialogue review conducted every year hood. The Bank subsidises home and family Pensions are part of the total remuneration to between managers and employees. Conditions services for employees in Sweden who have employees of Handelsbanken. The pension terms and beneﬁts differ within the Group and are children under the age of 12. In addition to current in the countries where the Bank conducts its adapted to the markets where the Bank operates social insurance regulations for parental leave, operations must be competitive and adapted to and to the collective agreements which have in most of its home markets Handelsbanken legislation and regulations, in accordance with the been entered into. provides remuneration in accordance with local conditions prevailing in each country. 2017 2016 2015 New employees by Staff turnover* by New employees by Staff turnover* by New employees by Staff turnover* by home market, age home market, age home market, age home market, age home market, age home market, age group and gender group and gender group and gender group and gender group and gender group and gender Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Sweden 619 8.2 295 3.9 195 2.8 215 3.1 284 4 151 2.1 UK 219 9.7 103 4.6 216 10.2 94 4.4 338 16.5 74 3.6 Denmark 54 7.9 53 7.7 38 5.6 50 7.4 55 7.6 38 5.3 Finland 79 11.9 43 6.5 31 5.2 42 7.0 30 4.4 31 4.5 Norway 41 5.3 34 4.4 22 2.9 21 2.8 15 1.9 16 2.1 The Netherlands 57 17.4 20 6.1 51 19.6 16 6.2 55 25.8 11 5.2 Total number 1069 8.7 548 4.5 553 4.9 438 3.9 777 6.7 321 2.8 men < 30 yrs old 215 52 90 41 156 32 30–50 yrs 320 182 182 140 213 91 > 50 yrs 63 63 40 50 54 46 women < 30 yrs 178 49 82 38 137 27 30–50 yrs 252 144 125 126 172 79 > 50 yrs 41 58 34 43 45 46 * Staff turnover refers to the number who leave the Bank (excluding retirements and deaths) as a proportion of all employees. ** Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. 2017 2016 Employees by form of employment Number % Men, % Women, % Number % Men, % Women, % Regular employment Full-time 10 455 82 54 46 10 175 83 54 46 Part-time 1475 12 18 82 1 526 12 16 84 Temporary employment 725 6 46 54 571 5 45 55 Group total 12 655 12 272 2017 2016 2015 Average number of employees Number % Men, % Women, % Number % Men, % Women, % Number % Men, % Women, % Sweden 7 010 60 48 52 7 046 60 47 53 7 263 62 47 53 UK 2 151 18 58 42 2 069 18 59 41 1 904 16 59 41 Denmark 653 6 51 49 673 6 51 49 690 6 52 48 Finland 623 5 42 58 613 5 41 59 614 5 42 58 Norway 750 6 54 46 753 6 54 46 766 6 55 45 The Netherlands 284 2 69 31 218 2 69 31 170 1 64 36 Other countries 361 3 46 54 387 3 45 55 412 4 47 53 Group total 11 832 50.5 49.5 11 759 49.7 50.3 11 819 49.9 50.1 H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 53 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS An occupational pension plan can include a employees outperform their peers in the rest of collective agreements, there are also agreements retirement pension, disability pension and surviving the sector. In every year but three since 1973, with local employees’ organisations, such as family member protection. The pension solutions Handelsbanken has allocated part of the Bank’s works councils in the United Kingdom and the which can be offered to employees are deﬁned proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for its employNetherlands. In Sweden, matters such as organisabeneﬁt, deﬁned contribution or a combination of ees. The funds are managed by the Oktogonen tional changes are regulated in Handelsbanken’s the two. Foundation. co-determination agreement with local bodies of Age and gender breakdown 2017 Allocations are subject to Handelsbanken the Financial Sector Union of Sweden and in the Age achieving its corporate goal. If this is satisﬁed, collective agreement between the Employers’ 65– one third of the extra proﬁts can be allocated to Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions 60–64 the employees. However, the maximum allocation and the Swedish Association of Graduates in 55–59 allowed is 10 per cent of the ordinary dividend to Business Administration and Economics, the 50–54 shareholders. If the Bank reduces the dividend Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers 45–49 paid to its shareholders, no allocation can be and Jusek, which are afﬁliated to the Swedish 40–44 35–39 made to the foundation. Each employee receives Confederation of Professional Associations. 30–34 an equal part of the allocated amount, regardless In Sweden, the work environment agreement 25–29 of their position, form of employment or tasks. The between Handelsbanken and the Financial 20–24 proﬁt-sharing scheme is long-term, as payments Sector Union of Sweden regulates the areas of –19 to the unit-holder are made after the age of 60. the physical and psychosocial work environment, 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 Of the Group’s employees, 98 per cent are now security, roles, division of responsibilities and Number of employees Women Men covered by Oktogonen. organisation of the work environment. One of the fundamental concepts in managing There is an ongoing, close dialogue between Oktogonen – the Bank’s proﬁt-sharing the foundation is that the funds are invested in union representatives and managers concerning scheme shares in Handelsbanken. operations – such as when changes and new One condition for achieving the Bank’s corporate For many years, the Oktogonen Foundation services are to be launched – where valuable goal of better proﬁtability than the average of peer has been one of the Bank’s largest shareholders, information is exchanged at the very early stages. banks in its home markets is that the Bank’s and nominates two representatives for election to As well as matters dealt with in a dialogue with the Board of Handelsbanken. Since Oktogonen’s the union organisations and other types of Proportion of employees in Handelsbanken’s home markets who are covered by a pension agreement 1 board is made up of representatives from an employee organisations in each country, there is employee organisation, the employees have the also Handelsbanken’s European Works Council % opportunity to inﬂuence the election of Handels(EWC), which serves as a forum for joint and 100 banken’s Board. cross-border questions in the countries in Europe where the Group has operations. The EWC 80 RELATIONS WITH UNIONS consists of employee representatives from 60 Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships nine countries: Denmark, Finland, Germany, with unions are a valuable component of the Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, 40 Bank’s culture. The Bank promotes the right of Sweden and the UK. all employees to join a trade union or employee 20 organisation. All employees in Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden and Germany – Facts: The Bank’s 0 comprising 77 per cent (78) of the Bank’s employ2016 Deﬁned beneﬁt 2017 Deﬁned contribution ees – are covered by collective bargaining agreebusiness culture ments. In these countries, employees who are Handelsbanken upholds good business ethics 1 Retirement pension plan’ refers here to both (statutory) and works systematically to take into account not members of a union are also covered by the national retirement pensions and occupational pension plans under local laws and regulations. terms of the collective agreement. In addition to new requirements and expectations as well as to integrate new regulations in daily operations. Handelsbanken has a number of policies that Salary contributions to deﬁned contribution pensions 2017 describe the Bank’s common view and approach The % Sweden 2 UK Denmark Finland 3 Norway 4 Netherlands to a variety of these issues. The Bank’s website also has the full texts of the policy on ethical Salary contribution by employers 1 2 15 11 1.5 7/20 13.8 standards, policy for management of conﬂicts of Salary contribution by employees, average 0 7.7 5.3 0 0 0 interest and policy against corruption as well as summaries of other policies in the Handelsbanken Salary contributions to deﬁned contribution pensions 2016 Group. In addition, a selection of guidelines adopted The % Sweden 2 UK Denmark Finland 3 Norway Netherlands by Handelsbanken’s Group Chief Executive is available on the Bank’s website. Salary contribution by employers 1 2 15 11 1.5 0 13.3 Salary contribution by employees, average 0 8.9 5.3 0 0 0 COMPLIANCE AND MAJOR INCIDENTS 1 In Sweden, the UK, Norway and the Netherlands, less than 100 per cent of salary is pension-qualifying, as there is an upper limit. 2 In Sweden, retirement pension plans are ‘deﬁned beneﬁt’. The premiums stated refer to deﬁned contribution Banking operations are regulated and governed supplementary pensions. by extensive laws and regulations. If a bank does 3 Refers to national pension. not comply with these, the responsible supervi4 For salaries corresponding to 0–7.1 Norwegian base amounts/For salaries corresponding to 7.1–12 Norwegian base amounts. sory authority can decide on administrative ﬁnes Deﬁned beneﬁt pensions, pension commitments, and pension assets according to IAS 19 1 and, in the worst case, revoke the banking 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 licence. Administrative ﬁnes may be imposed on SEK m % SEK m % banks for breaches such as corruption, faulty product or service information or labelling, or nonPension commitments 30 455 100 29 670 100 compliance with laws or regulations in the social Earmarked pension assets 31 694 104 27 509 93 or economic spheres. No major incidents occurred Assets part of Handelsbanken’s general 2 161 7 resources in 2017 (2016: 0). 1 For more detailed information, see the 2017 Annual Report, note G8. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 54 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS POLICY ON ETHICAL STANDARDS in this area, for example by enumerating in the We see a positive link between the code and our The policy on ethical standards is reviewed every policy a variety of areas where conﬂicts of interest relationships with suppliers as well as their direct year by the Board. The review begins with any could arise in the operations. The policy includes impact on our sustainability activities. changes made in the relevant legislation, also details on the procedure for identifying and Handelsbanken’s Supplier Code of Conduct is covering changes in external expectations, the managing conﬂicts of interest. For example, each available at handelsbanken.se/sustainability. Bank’s experience of ongoing internal work, and year potential conﬂicts of interest, as well as how observations from the Bank’s comprehensive they have been managed, must be reported by PRINCIPLES WHEN GRANTING CREDIT internal control. The policy on ethical standards is those units deemed to have a greater probability Sustainability aspects are a vital part of the Bank’s issued in Swedish and translated into English. of conﬂicts of interest. credit policy. The policy states that the Bank’s Each year all unit heads must review the regulending must be responsible and meet high GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING TAXES lations applying to bribery and improper inﬂuence demands for sound ethical standards. When Handelsbanken’s actions regarding tax-related with their employees. granting credit, Handelsbanken must assess and matters shall be responsible and transparent and The regulations must be followed in all contexts, evaluate the customer’s approach to the principles shall comply with prevailing laws and regulations. such as gifts, corporate hospitality and other and agreements supported by the Bank. Ultimately, At Handelsbanken, high ethical standards events. All units must perform a self-assessment this can result in Handelsbanken declining to must always be observed, as regulated in policy of operational risk at least once each year, and grant credit to companies that do not apply these documents from the Board. operational risk analyses which include the area of principles. Internal and external transactions carried out anti-corruption are performed annually. Security by the Bank within the framework of the Bank’s reviews are also performed every year and these own operations must always have a business contain a training and information section on Facts: The Bank as an purpose and must not be carried out for tax corruption. purposes only. Services and products provided Handelsbanken’s anti-corruption policy states investment by the Bank must always have a business purpose, that all Bank employees must complete a course PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY and the Bank must not provide products or on corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence Handelsbanken is a Swedish public limited comservices where the primary purpose is to obtain each year. New training concerning corruption, pany, which means that the public can invest in tax advantages in conﬂict with the objective of the bribery and improper inﬂuence was introduced in the Bank by buying and selling shares in the tax regulations. The Bank must not participate in 2017, and the Bank’s employees completed the open market. Handelsbanken’s shares are traded transactions with customers, through granting course during the year. Parts of Handelsbanken’s on several different trading venues. Turnover is credits or otherwise, which constitute a step in tax Central Board and the boards of the Bank’s largest at Nasdaq Stockholm (the Stockholm evasion or in transactions with no business purpose, subsidiaries have carried out the training. stock exchange), but for many years, the shares undertaken only to obtain tax advantages in have also been traded on other venues, such as conﬂict with the objective of the tax regulations. SUPPLIERS BATS Chi-X. Handelsbanken has more than This also applies in relation to suppliers and The Group’s purchases can largely be divided into 100,000 shareholders. other business partners. In case of doubt, the categories property and premises, external IT Handelsbanken must refrain from participating. costs, communications, travel and marketing, DIVIDEND purchased services, procurement of materials, One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s proﬁtPOLICY FOR SUSTAINABILITY and other expenses. External IT costs and comability goal is to offer shareholders long-term, high In 2016, Handelsbanken’s Board adopted a munications are purchased centrally, chieﬂy from growth in value. This is expressed in increasing policy for sustainability that sets the direction for suppliers which operate internationally, while earnings per share over a business cycle. The the Bank’s work and clearly sets out the Bank’s other categories are purchased mainly from local Bank aims for the ordinary dividend to show longview of sustainability. The policy applies throughsuppliers. We work to co-ordinate the Bank’s term, stable growth which reﬂects the value out the Handelsbanken Group and encompasses purchases to take into account cost effects, creation. But the dividend level must not lead to all activities in relation to customers, suppliers and quality and environmental impact. the authorities’ capital requirements not being other business partners. The policy is available in The Bank holds ongoing dialogues with supplimet. In every one of the past 20 years, including its entirety at handelsbanken.se/ireng. ers where sustainability is a key factor. Among during the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsother things, we look into the supplier’s approach banken has paid a dividend to its shareholders. ANTI-MONEY-LAUNDERING ACTIVITIES to collective agreements, work environment, At least once a year, Handelsbanken’s Board and anti-corruption and environmental impact. In 2016, CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE Group Chief Executive establish a Group-wide Handelsbanken implemented a code of conduct During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken policy and guidelines that serve as the framework for major suppliers in Sweden. The code deﬁnes has generated positive shareholder value of for the Bank’s measures against ﬁnancial crime the expectations we have on our suppliers and SEK 121 billion. Market capitalisation has grown which include efforts against money laundering their subcontractors. Most of these expectations by SEK 71 billion, while the Bank has paid out and terrorist ﬁnancing. The function responsibility are based on internationally accepted standards, SEK 50 billion in dividends to shareholders. for working with measures against ﬁnancial crime with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. The dividend for 2017 is proposed to amount is held by a central department which must Among other things, the Bank’s code of conduct to SEK 14.6 billion. ensure that there is competency in and awarerequires that suppliers eliminate and combat all ness of these areas throughout the Group. The forms of human trafﬁcking, modern slavery and operational responsibility for work preventing compulsory labour, that they are not involved ﬁnancial crime lies with each country’s general whatsoever in any form of child labour, and that manager. they ensure that they do not violate human rights. Results have been good, and many of the Bank’s CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, CORRUPTION, major suppliers have signed the code. For the BRIBERY AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE Swedish operations, we are now working to have Handelsbanken has established procedures for all suppliers that provide facility services sign the managing conﬂicts of interest with the purpose of Bank’s code of conduct. Samhall, which signed preventing customers’ interests from being negaa framework agreement with the Bank in 2015, tively affected. In 2017, Handelsbanken’s Board was awarded additional assignments in 2017 to revised the Bank’s policy for managing conﬂicts of provide facility services for the branch operations interest in order to further clarify the Bank’s work in Sweden. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 55 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX Content, restrictions and indexes according to the Global Reporting Initiative Handelsbanken reports its sustainability activities The preceding report was submitted in February No major corrections or amendments to previous in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 2017 and related to the 2016 calendar year. information provided in previous years’ sustain(GRI) Standards. The Sustainability Report meets The Sustainability Report contains information ability reports have been made in this report. the information requirements of the ‘Core’ level, relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. The The table below contains the disclosures conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. information presented in the report covers the deemed relevant to Handelsbanken’s operations Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainability largest and most important parts of the operations, including disclosures from the GRI Financial activities annually. This year’s Sustainability Report with the focus on banking operations. Any Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). is Handelsbanken’s eighth in accordance with limitations are indicated in the report where the GRI and relates to the 2017 calendar year. applicable. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OMISSIONS/ GOALS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 PAGE AR 2 COMMENTS RELEVANCE Organisational proﬁle GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organisation 1 3 disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Inside front cover, 5–7, 20–25 Inside front cover 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 212 102-4 Location of operations Inside front cover 214–221 102-5 Ownership and legal form 55 42–43 102-6 Markets served Inside front cover 28–41 102-7 Scale of the organisation 48 24 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 53 116 Goal 8 102-9 Supply chain 45, 55 120 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 54 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Handelsbanken applies the precautionary principle in accordance with Global Compact and Swedish legislation 102-12 External initiatives Inside front cover, 1, 4, 8–9, 16, 21, 22, 24–25, 32, 38–39, 44, 49, 50, 52 102-13 Membership of associations 38–39 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–4 4–6 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 16, 21, 25, 32–34, behaviour 43, 54–55 55–57 Goal 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 32–34, 43 48–50 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 44–45 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 54 Goal 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 44 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 44–45 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8–9, 44–45 Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 56 151 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic boundaries 8, 45 102-47 List of material topics 8–9, 45 102-48 Restatements of information 56 102-49 Changes in reporting 56 Report proﬁle 102-50 Reporting period 56 102-51 Date of most recent report 56 102-52 Reporting cycle 56 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 56 102-55 GRI content index 56–58 102-56 External assurance 59 1 SR Refers to the 2017 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2017 Annual Report. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 56 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OMISSIONS/ GOALS MATERIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 PAGE AR 2 COMMENTS RELEVANCE Economic ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8–9, 18–19, 20, Handelsbanken’s material topics: 35–37, 43 10–11 – Financial stability and proﬁtability 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 19, 46, 48 GRI 201: Economic – Creating shareholder value performance 2016 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other – The Bank should not be a burden on society retirement plans 54 – Salaries and remuneration 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 19, 35 – The Bank as a taxpayer MARKET PRESENCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8, 44 GRI 202: Market 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from Handelsbanken’s material topics: presence 2016 the local community 52 – Local presence INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8, 14 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure, investments and services Handelsbanken’s material topics: economic impacts supported 14, 17 Goals 9, 11 – Local presence 2016 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts 18–19, 48 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 9, 32–34, 43, 54–55 Handelsbanken’s material topics: – Business culture 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to – Anti-corruption and bribery GRI 205: corruption 34, 55 Goal 16 – Counteract crime Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 46, 55 Goal 16 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 54 Goal 16 Environmental ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GRI 302: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9 Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 49–50 Goals 8, 13 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 49 Goal 13 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 49 Goal 13 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 49 Goal 13 Social EMPLOYMENT 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8–9, 28–31, 45, Handelsbanken’s material topics: 52–54 – Salaries and remuneration 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover, – Responsible employer by age group, gender and region 53 Goals 5, 8 GRI 401: 401-2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that 53–54 Handelsbanken does Employment 2016 are not provided to temporary or part-time not consider it relevant employees to report the situation in the different countries, as only 6 per cent of the Bank’s employees are temporarily employed. Goal 8 LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–6, 8–9, 54 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 54 All collective bargaining GRI 402: Labour/ changes agreements regulate Handelsbanken’s material topics: management notice periods, though – Working conditions and union rights relations 2016 these differ depending – Employee commitment on the agreement and market. Goal 8 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–6, 8–9, SAFETY 30, 52–54 GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint manageHandelsbanken’s material topics: Occupational health ment-worker health and safety committees 30 – Work environment and health and safety 2016 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 30, 54 Goal 8 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 28–29, 31 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 404: Training transition assistance programmes 28, 52 Goal 8 – Responsible employer and education 2016 404-3 – Leadership and development Percentage of employees receiving regular – Employee commitment performance and career development reviews 28 Goal 8 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 14, 15, OPPORTUNITY GRI 405: 29–31, 43 Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 43, 46, 52–53 60–63 Handelsbanken currently Goals 5, 8 Handelsbanken’s material topics: opportunity 2016 reports by gender, age, – Gender equality and diversity and nationality. 1 SR Refers to the 2017 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2017 Annual Report. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2017 57 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OMISSIONS/ GOALS MATERIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 PAGE AR 2 COMMENTS RELEVANCE NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 16, 29–31 Handelsbanken’s material topics: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective During the year, one Goals 5, 8, 16 – Satisﬁed customers actions taken 30 case (2016: 0) was – Gender equality and diversity GRI 406: reported to the national Non-discrimination discrimination ombuds2016 man which concerned a case of external recruitment. The ombudsman has decided not to pursue the case further. INVESTMENT 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8-9, GRI 412: 20–25, 50–51 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Human rights assessment 412-3 Signiﬁcant investment agreements and – Responsible lending contracts that include human rights clauses 2016 or that underwent human rights screening 16, 22, 24, 46 LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8–9, GRI 413: 13–15, 17 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, – High availability 2016 impact assessments, and development – Local presence programmes 13–15, 17, 46 PRODUCT AND SERVICE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 13, 20, LABELLING 21, 25, 33 GRI 417: Handelsbanken’s material topics: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service – Satisﬁed customers labelling 2016 information and labelling 47 – Responsible sales and advisory 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Goal 16 services product and service information and labelling 54 CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 13, 33–34, 43, 47 GRI 418: Customer Handelsbanken’s material topics: privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Goal 16 – Integrity and conﬁdentiality breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 47 COMPLIANCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 12–13, GRI 419: 33–34, 43, 47 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Socioeconomic – Counteract crime compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Goal 16 – Responsible sales and advisory 2016 in the social and economic area 54 services Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 20–25, SUPPLEMENT (FSSS) Management 50–52, 55 approach 2016 Handelsbanken’s material topics: – Responsible lending – Responsible investment PRODUCT PORTFOLIO GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 20–25, Management 50–52, 55 Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – Responsible lending FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines – Responsible investment by speciﬁc region, size and by sector 21 FS8 Monetary value of products and services Refers to Criteria funds designed to deliver a speciﬁc environmental and green bonds. beneﬁt 1, 21, 23, 46 ACTIVE OWNERSHIP GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 22–25 Management Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – Responsible investment FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues 22, 51 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and 100 per cent of holdings negative environmental or social screening 1, 22–23 in equities and corporate bonds (SEK 412 billion) are included in environmental and social screening. LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5–7, 8–9, Management 13–14, 17 Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – High availability FS13 Access points in low-populated or – Local presence economically disadvantaged areas 13–14, 46 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services for disadvantaged people 14, 17 1 SR Refers to the 2017 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2017 Annual Report. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 58 Auditor’s report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ)’s Sustainability Report and the Auditor’s Report on the Statutory Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ), corporate identity number 502007-7862 INTRODUCTION We conducted our limited assurance engage­ Our procedures performed in the limited assur­ We have been engaged by the Board of Directors ment in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance ance engagement are based on the criteria defined of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) to undertake engagements other than audits or reviews of by the Board of Directors and the Executive a limited assurance engagement of Handels­ ­historical financial information, with the application ­Management as described above. We consider banken’s Sustainability Report for the year 2017. of RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports these criteria suitable for the preparation of the On page 1, the company has defined the Sustain­ issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence ability Report for 2017 that comprises the ­statutory consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to sustainability report. responsible for the preparation of the Sustain­ provide a basis for our conclusions below. ability Report, and applying analytical and other RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD limited assurance procedures. Our examination CONCLUSIONS OF DIRECTORS AND THE EXECUTIVE of the statutory sustainability report has been Based on the limited assurance procedures we ­MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing have performed, nothing has come to our atten­ REPORT AND THE STATUTORY standard RevR 12 The auditor’s report on the tion that causes us to believe that the Sustain­ability ­SUSTAIN­ABILITY REPORT statutory sustainability report. The procedures Report is not prepared, in all material respects, The Board of Directors and the Executive Manage­ performed in a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the criteria defined by the ment are responsible for the preparation of and in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard Board of Directors and Executive ­Management. the Sustainability Report including the statutory RevR 12 vary in nature from, and are less in scope A statutory sustainability report has been sustainability report in accordance with the than for, a reasonable assurance engagement ­prepared. ­applicable criteria and the Swedish Annual conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards Accounts Act respectively. The sustainability on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing report is integrated with the Sustainability Report, standards. which was designed to meet the requirements of The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The applicable on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a criteria are explained on page 56, and are the comprehensive system of quality control including Stockholm, 16 February 2018 parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines documented policies and procedures regarding published by GRI (The Global Reporting Initiative) compliance with ethical requirements, professional Ernst & Young AB that are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as standards and applic­able legal and regulatory well as the accounting and calculation principles requirements. We are independent of Svenska that the Company has developed. This responsi­ Handelsbanken AB (publ) in accordance with pro­ Jesper Nilsson Marianne Förander bility also includes the internal control relevant to fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and Authorised Public Expert Member of FAR the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is have otherwise ­fulfilled our ethical responsibilities Accountant free from material misstatements, whether due to in accordance with these requirements. fraud or error. Consequently, the ­procedures performed and our examination in accordance with RevR12 do RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR not enable us to obtain assurance that we would Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the become aware of all significant matters that might Sustainability Report based on the limited assur­ be identified in a reasonable assurance engage­ ance procedures we have performed and provide ment. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable an opinion on the statutory sustainability report. assurance conclusion. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SUSTAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 7 59 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS Definitions and explanations 2° INVESTING INITIATIVE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE A non-governmental organisation (NGO) specialisA framework for risk management adopted by INVESTMENT (PRI) ing in analysing ﬁnancial risks related to climate international ﬁnancial institutions to establish, The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) change. assess, and manage environmental and social are a UN initiative for responsible investment. The risks in projects. goal is to increase knowledge of and understanding 2030 AGENDA FOR SUSTAINABLE for the signiﬁcance of sustainable development in DEVELOPMENT ESG the investment management sector. The concrete action plan with 17 Sustainable Environmental, Social and Governance comprises Development Goals to be reached by 2030 criteria applying to environmental and social SCOPE (1, 2 AND 3) that was adopted by world leaders in the UN’s responsibility as well as corporate governance. The scopes are categories of emissions in the General Assembly in September 2015. GHG protocol, for example, direct or indirect. GDPR CARBON FOOTPRINT In Sweden, the new General Data Protection SKI/EPSI A carbon footprint is a calculation of the total Regulation will replace the Swedish Personal Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality Index) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) that Data Act (PuL) on 25 May 2018. is a part of the EPSI Rating Group that carries have been caused by an organisation, event out surveys of customer satisfaction in various or product. GHG PROTOCOL sectors throughout the Nordic region and in other The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely parts of Europe. CDP (FORMERLY CARBON DISCLOSURE used standard for estimating and reporting PROJECT) company emissions of greenhouse gases. SWEDISH RESOLUTION RESERVE An independent, not-for-proﬁt organisation Since February 2016, Sweden has had new rules that manages the world’s biggest database GREEN BONDS for managing failing banks, that is, resolution of ﬁrst-hand information about companies’ Consist of interest-bearing securities for which cases. Under the new law, a failing bank must environmental work. the funds raised are used for projects targeting be managed ﬁnancially primarily by the bank’s the environment and climate change. shareholders and creditors bearing the losses CLIMATE BONDS INITIATIVE (CBI) and expenses for the bank’s recapitalisation. In An international, not-for-proﬁt organisation that GREEN FINANCING extraordinary circumstances, though, external gathers information about green bonds and Environment-oriented ﬁnance intended to funding may be necessary. That is why there is a works to mobilise the market. contribute to a more sustainable society, such government-managed resolution reserve that is as through green loans and green bonds. funded by fees from the banks. COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL Common equity tier 1 capital is one of the comGREEN LOANS SWESIF ponents of own funds and mainly comprises Loans for implementing measures to improve the Sweden’s forum for sustainable investment is an equity. Deductions are made for dividends environment. independent, not-for-proﬁt charitable organisation generated, goodwill, and other intangible assets and association bringing together organisations and also the difference between an expected GRI that work for or with sustainable investment in loss and provisions made for probable loan The Global Reporting Initiative is an international Sweden. losses. standard for sustainability reporting. TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO ISSUER FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE (TCFD) Common equity tier 1 capital in relation to total An institution that issues a security, such as a The Task Force on Climate-related Financial risk exposure amount. bank that issues a bond. Disclosure is an international working group that the G20 countries have tasked with formulating CRD IV MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 recommendations for correcting deﬁciencies in The EU’s directive on credit institutions is Directive The United Kingdom’s law against modern slavery information on companies’ work on and manage(EU) No. 2013/36/EU on access to the activity of requires that certain organisations annually state ment of climate change and its consequences. credit institutions and the prudential supervision the actions that they have taken to ensure that of credit institutions and investment ﬁrms. modern slavery and human trafﬁcking do not WHISTLEBLOWER occur in their organisations or their supply chains. An employee who discovers or suspects internal CREDIT RISK fraud or other irregularities in the Group can The risk that a debtor will not be able to repay a NGO use, when other channels are not appropriate, loan. In order for lenders to prevent this from NGO stands for non-governmental organisation. Handelsbanken’s special system for whistlehappening, a credit assessment is needed that The term is sometimes used for organisations blowers, in which identity protection can be speciﬁes how much money the debtor will be able that have cross-border operations. An NGO is guaranteed as far as is legally possible. to borrow. independent of any government and can have either not-for-proﬁt or commercial goals for its activities. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2017 60 WOULD YOU LIKE TO FIND OUT MORE? More information about Handelsbanken’s sustainability is available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. The site includes: • Sustainability Reports • Policies and guidelines for sustainability PLEASE CONTACT US If you would like to ask questions about our sustainability work or if you have opinions to share, feel free to contact us at sustainability@handelsbanken.se. handelsbanken.com | +46 (0)8 701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
