Communication on Progress 2017 HISTORY Datascrip – Business Solutions A company that markets and sells machinery, digital devices, office furniture, survey and engineering tools, stationery, and systems needed in business and offices. Datascrip continues to add its portfolio of world brands such as Canon, ASUS, Stabilo, Paper One, Optoma, Sedus, Ideal, and many others. 1969 : Datascrip started out as a humble stationery and office equipment store. 1979 : The company’s core business was office system. 1985 : The company’s core business developing into system for business 1997 : Became known as Office Solution Company 2000 : Repositioned as Business Solution Provider STATEMENT OF SUPPORT We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Catur Sila. Irwan Kamdani President Director PT. Datascrip HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip continues to instill its corporate culture (through games, sharing sessions, gimmicks, etc.) to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: • Succeed above Success • CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Enthusiasm) • SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) • CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation, Coordination, Commitment) • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid al-Adha. • Datascrip continued to hold its quarterly blood donation program, which were held in March, May, August, November, all with full attendance. • Datascrip donated 1,000 pcs of Stabilo Speedball pen to Womens International Club in which they will be passed on to schools in need. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • As part of its inclusive business strategy for its DSLR camera and its SELPHY printer, Datascrip educated street photographers on how to use the products and how to approach and sell their services to tourists in Tanah Lot Bali and Bukit Kasih Manado. • Another inclusive business initiative that Datascrip implemented last year was providing photography workshop, cameras and SELPHY printers to businesses and communities around Muarajambi Temple Compound Site in collaboration with Jambi Cultural Heritage Conservation Office. • Having proper legality to the land owned is the right of every citizen. Datascrip supported government’s initiative to provide land certificates to 7 million land plots by providing training to surveyors. • Datascrip helped Indonesian Traffic Police in many occasions to conduct post-accident analysis so that fair justice can be properly achieved. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • In Datascrip Canon Photomarathon 2017 event, we donated Canon EOS 6D camera, along with its battery grip dan lens to Mr. Achmad Zulkarnain. Despite being born without hands and legs, he has made a name for himself as a photographer. We value his determination and hope that his story will inspire others to not giving up on the face of adversity. • Also in the same event, starting last year, we provided sign language translation for our participants with hearing disability. • Yayasan Pendidikan Budi Utomo located in Binjai, North Sumatra is a school that provides free education to all of its underprivileged students. Datascrip and its Canon dealers helped the completion of its mushola (prayer room) and the painting of its classrooms; as well as provided new chairs, sport equipments, cleaning equipments, stationeries and some funds to help its operations. • Datascrip provided several digital cameras, lenses, flash, printer and other photography accessories to Sutomo 1 High School in Medan to complete its photo studio. The studio will be used by the students for their extracurricular activity. We also provided training for the teachers to make sure they are well prepared and books to guide the students in learning photography. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip provides its employees healthcare, social security (BPJS Kesehatan) and pension benefits (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). • Achievements made by Datascrip’s employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip’s Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. • Datascrip is OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certified, to ensure safe and healthy working environment and to ensure that the necessary equipments are in place for the health and safety of its employees. • SIMPONI is an employee evaluation software, developed in-house by Datascrip, to measure the performance of all employees against objective standards from multiple standpoints (360 degree evaluation). ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continues its recycling initiatives through Customer Loyalty Program and Canon Recycle Program, where used and worn-out cartridges, toners, digital cameras, printers, scanners and other electronic equipments are collected from customers and sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. Our Service Division Director, Mr. Budianto Iskandar, also shared the importance of proper handling of electronic waste at IGCN Forum 2017 that was held on 17-19 October 2017. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system are incorporated into Datascrip’s main warehouses in Pulogadung and Cikarang. • Glass walls are used in Datascrip’s head office, thus eliminating the need to turn on the lights during daytime. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated on Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continually develops new IT solutions to streamline its business process and progress closer toward a paperless office. • ColSyS a paperless system to record and monitor account receivables. • Marketeer of the Year (MOY) application to register, monitor and evaluate the performance of the marketeers in Datascrip’s internal marketing competition. • Digital filing application to maintain tender contracts in digital form for easier and more efficient sharing of information. • Datascrip continues its commitment to add more environmentallyfriendly products to its assortments: • BenQ Interactive Flat Panel creates a paperless classroom where data shown on the screen can be distributed to students wirelessly. • Maped Graph Peps, Felt Pen and Brush Pen use water-based ink which reduce ground / water contamination when disposed of. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip participated in the IGCN’s initiative, “Save Water Campaign” starting from mid of 2013. The stickers are installed throughout Datascrip’s offices and warehouses. • As part of our concerns for the environment, Datascrip is ISO 14001 (environmental management) certified. • Matahari Alka, a part of Datascrip’s group of companies, is one of the Circle Founder of Green Product Council Indonesia (GPCI) which is an independent, non-profit-organization and voluntary scheme for the certification of environmentally preferable products. • Datascrip is also a member of Green Building Council Indonesia (GBCI), an independent body which is fully committed to educate the public of environmental best practices and to facilitate the transformation of the sustainable building industry. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • We have created an online system to facilitate tender support letter request. With this system, we check the legality of the our business partners prior to giving them letters to participate in government tender. The process is impartial and transparent. • The price list of Datascrip products is available for all to access through its online store, located in http://store.datascrip.com. This further reduces the potential for corruption through price transparency. • Datascrip’s Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption. • Datascrip has issued “Business Engagement Guidelines” which governs employees conduct in government tender, anti-trust issues, promotion of fair business competition and anti-corruption. MEASUREMENT The followings are the measurements of the outcomes of the four principles of Global Compact in 2017. Human Rights: Environment: • Number of quarterly blood donation → 4 times • Recycling initiative & Save Water Campaign are • Social charity → 3 times maintained. • Education-related charity → 2 times • New environmentally conscious products → 2 product • Inclusive business program → 2 times groups. • New initiatives to reduce paper usage → 3 systems Labor: • Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 and government regulations are maintained. • Employee composition (by religion) which represents a more balanced mix than of Indonesian population: • Islam → 1,104 employees Anti-Corruption: • Christian → 221 employees • Price list availability at website is maintained. • Catholic → 125 employees • Budha → 32 employees • Hindu → 8 employees • Compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 and government regulations are maintained
