UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 15TH AUGUST 2018 Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 13.07.2017 To: 11.08.2018 Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited 1-A Danepur Road, GOR-1, Lahore, Pakistan +92-42-36311881-3 www.hitechlubricants.com shaukat@masgroup.org Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT .................................................................................................................. 3 OUR MISSION .......................................................................................................................... 4 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ......................................................................................... 9 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS............................................................................. 9 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................................................... 11 LABOR PRINCIPLES ........................................................................................................... 23 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 23 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ................................................................................... 26 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 26 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 27 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ................................................................................ 31 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 31 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 32 SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... 33 2|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 3|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 OUR MISSION “Earning customer satisfaction through provision of quality services to our client system by employing state of the art technologies and processes and by investing in our stakeholders” OUR VISION “Delivering Products & Services for Client Satisfaction” OUR CORPORATE VALUES Respect – We value people Quality – We make you ask for us Integrity – We provide the real deal Responsible – We value our community ABOUT US Hi-Tech Lubricants is ISO 9001:2015 Certified Company. We have been hitherto focusing marketing efforts mainly in the retail markets and our performance in industrial sector has been satisfactory and our products are available in more than seventy-two stations in Pakistan through our network of distributors. With a well-trained marketing team, we provide quality service to our clients. The lubricants we are marketing in Pakistan are manufactured by the world renowned M/s SK Corporation, South Korea. SK facilities and its products have the required ISO approval i.e. ISO 9002 and the coveted Environment Management System ISO 14001. 4|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 In the Lubricant Sector, SK enjoys an enviable position as it is the single largest producer for VHVI Base Oil. Our experience in grass root marketing, the strong and motivated field force and extensive network of distributors all over the country enable us to offer strong marketing base for launching new products in Pakistan. ACTING RESPONSIBLE THINKING SUSTAINABLE Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited is ever adaptive to the changing trends of the modern world for doing business and knows how important it is for businesses to present themselves to their customers. Today, more consumers than ever are demanding that companies should change their practices, become more transparent and communicative and above all take a more hands-on approach towards making the world a better place. Over time HTL has built itself an organization that aspires for companies to stand with them to be the catalysts of change. We have integrated Corporate Social responsibility as part of our daily business routines where we are transparent in our practices and honest with our customers. HTL is fully aware of its responsibilities towards society as well as towards the environment it operates in. As a responsible corporate citizen, HTL aims to act in a socially responsible manner at all times. HTL seeks to conduct its business in a way which achieves profitable but sustainable growth by demonstrating a high degree of integrity and social awareness. 5|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPOSIBILITY EXCELLENCE 2017 Hi-Tech Lubricants limited wins Living the UN Global Compact Business Sustainability Award 2017 United Nation Global Compact has recognized Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd, admiring our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts and has awarded First Prize in the Large National Category. This award recognizes the overall social impact Hi-tech has had through its various programs in the areas of Education, Health and Environment. In its unrelenting effort to be a change agent HTL continues its commitments to work for the betterment of society. 6|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 Winners of NFEHs’ 7th National CSR Excellence Award 2018. Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd has been acknowledged for its Corporate Social Responsibility efforts at the 10th National CSR Excellence Awards Ceremony 2018. This was organized by the prestigious National Forum of Environment & Health (NFEH) and HTL has been awarded for working on the overall betterment of society. Over the years HTL’s initiatives had been meant to improve lives of its people by fostering in them to be ethically more cultured and responsible. The honorary award was presented to HTL in a graceful ceremony held at Serena hotel, Islamabad. Prominent personalities belonging to Corporate Sector, Government Organizations, NGO’s, Academia and Media attended the event. The award marks HTL’s belief in giving back to the community at large. 7|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 EFP AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 2017 It is awarded in recognition of company’s notable practices in Women Empowerment. It speaks highly about HTL’s sincere commitment with UN defined 17 sustainable development goals where Gender Equality is also one of the burning issues being discussed around the Globe. This achievement clearly demonstrates to our MAS Group family, clients and the wider community, we support women in their role as leaders and affirmative to help build a Gender equal world. 8|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 5. Human Rights PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals 5.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We are devoted to UNGC Human Rights principles as reflected within our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct upholds the international Human Rights principles as a whole. The following policies stated within our Code show our compliance with the above mentioned principles. Clause 1 Personal Maintenance: Employer and employees shall collectively encourage the work environment where all of us can practice the organizational values and job goals both effectively and efficiently. Clause 2 Health & Safety Environment Policy: Hi-Tech has successfully planned and developed Health & Safety Environment Policy which has been implemented and is monitoring optimum standards of hygiene, safety and general working conditions for our personnel and ensures compliance with applicable requirements. Moreover, we emphasize on mitigation of health loss, continual health and safety awareness via staff trainings and ensure an overall healthy and safe environment. Clause 3 Anti-Bullying and Discrimination: we have a zero tolerance policy for any type of intimidating or offensive environment. We are committed to maintaining a non-discriminatory workplace, free of bullying. Acts or threats of intimidation, sabotage, physical or mental harm, terrorization and similar activities are not tolerated. 9|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 Clause 4 Sexual Harassment at Workplace: We practice Zero Tolerance for sexual harassment, physical or mental, that contributes to a sexually offensive environment for either male or female. Clause 5 Fraud, Deception, Dishonesty, Bribery & Corruption: Hi-Tech upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests. Clause 6 Whistle blowing Procedure: Hi-Tech respects the need to report any unfair, dishonest and corrupt practices by the employees. To ensure fair governance, quality work practices and an ethically congenial environment, HTL, as a company listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange has adopted and is in complete compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance, a comprehensive internal Code of Conduct and all other applicable laws and regulations. However, to mitigate constantly emerging risks of illegal or unethical practices such as noncompliance of legal and regulatory frameworks, insider trading, misconduct and malpractices, HTL in accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance, has devised and implemented a detailed policy to manage the risks of “Whistle-blowing”. This policy will not only address the aforementioned risks but will also safeguard the interests of our employees to freely communicate their genuine concerns in relation to any illegal or unethical practice being carried out to the Company. Clause 7 We are a Socially Responsible Business Entity: Hi-Tech upholds its value of treating everyone fairly, equally and also valuing diversity within the workplace while carefully practicing human rights. We are a socially responsible corporate citizen, providing opportunities to make desired changes within the community. We have developed robust policies and we try to make sure that our third party contractors or business partners reflect the same ethos in Human Rights principles as ours. We conduct businesses with entities that do not actively violate the International Human Rights standards. 10 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 We deal with suppliers that uphold Human Rights and promote the same to them through our business operations with them. 2. Measurement of outcomes In the past 13 months Hi-Tech has achieved measurable improvements in our processes, systems and culture.  Disciplinary Committee Formulation: Disciplinary Committee which was formulated in 2014 is now actively in handling all kinds of grievances to smooth the working environment. The purpose of formulation of this committee is to make sure that Human Rights of each employee are protected, maintained and upheld at all levels.  Bi-Annual Management Reviews: As per our annual strategic review, our best practice involves bi-annual management review meetings A mid annual and annual meeting consisting of the BOD and all departmental heads takes place for the regular review of all company operations and business growth. Regular meetings also take place among the management for similar purposes. CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION MONTH APRIL HTL took an initiative to launch CHILD ABUSE AWARENESS AND PREVENTION CAMPAIGN in April 2018, to spread awareness of one of the acute issues that prevails our society today. A two day session was conducted by a child psychologist. The students of Ilmgah along with their mothers were made to witness a visual elaboration through child friendly animation regarding the concept of Child Abuse . They were given a clear understanding about how to deal with 11 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 such circumstances. This campaign was truly informative and beneficial for the young minds of our Ilmgah students and their mothers. Innovative Teaching Institute visit to Ilmgah Studies revealed that applying innovative learning methods can truly enhance the learning process. These methods can be a powerful source to gain attention in classes and if done right can become a win-win for both students and teachers. Mr. Shaukat Hassan, Chairman HTL invited Mr. Erik Axelsson, Academic Director of Innovative Teaching Institute (ITI) based in Lahore accompanied by Ms. Beverly Linning, Head of Early years & Primary to visit Ilmgah. The purpose of the visit was to introduce them with Ilmgah’s current teaching methods and seek for their assistance to increase student learning by adding interesting innovative ways that can keep students more engaged and excited. 12 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018  Helmet For All Campaign – we mean safety by all means Since 2014 Helmet for All campaign has been implemented that continues till today alongside Traffic Police Lahore with the objective of creating awareness about benefit of wearing helmet among motor bike drivers.  Extending Collaboration with City Police HTL (ZIC Motor Oil) has always been at the forefront when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives regarding implementation of Traffic rules and regulations. Collaborating with traffic police in different cities in Pakistan ZIC has extended this collaboration to the other cities of Pakistan besides Lahore by 13 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 sponsoring police cabins to be placed throughout these major cities in order to assist our law abiders perform their duties to the best of their capabilities. Awareness Seminar on Gender Equity Pakistan is currently ranked second last country in the world in terms of gender equity by the World Economic Forum Gender Gap Report. Yet, more than 60% of its 200 million population is under 30. Here, It is important to tap into the digital and technical skills of this new generation in order to create innovative solutions to bridge the country gender gap. 14 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 HTL in collaboration with “The Alliance Française of Lahore” organized an informative session exclusively for the female faculty of the company by inviting Ms. Aurélie Salvaire, A French Author and also founder of the NGO “Shiftbalance”. Shiftbalance is a think-and-action tank collecting, producing and spreading information on everyday sexism and existing solutions. During an interactive one hour session she also launched her new book “Balance the World”. It gathers research on the best tactics used by the social entrepreneurs and activists around the world in order to bring more balance between men and women. She also spoke about “Gender Diversity at Workplace” supporting it with a digital presentation for the purpose to make it interesting and engaged for the audience. HTL celebrating International Women Day Empowering women is not just a right thing to do – it’s the smart thing to do ~ Barack Obama In anticipation of International Women’s Day, the Management of Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd organized a Region-wise Get-Together on account to celebrate the eve for the female employees of MAS Group of Companies. The celebration in the HTL’s head office started with a cake cutting ceremony in the presence of the HTL Board of Directors & SK ZIC representatives’ Mr. Hyuk Jin Kwon & Mr. Moon Seek Park, who were on their business visit to Pakistan. Later, the female employees shared their opinion about the challenges that working women are facing today and what has been their idea to 15 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 overcome those. The celebrations concluded on a vote of Thanks by the female staff to the Organization’s thoughtful gesture for them. HTL providing a sense of independence and freedom while enhancing mobility. People with disabilities are part of our diverse society and constitute a source of untapped talent for employment. HTL acclaims that people with disabilities should not be neglected rather they should enjoy the same human rights and opportunities for employment as everyone else. Therefore, it is every business’s group’s responsibility to respect and advance the rights of people with disabilities. Adhering to equal rights for special challenged employees, HTL management presented a motorbike to its special employee. It was thoughtfully deigned according to the exact specifications and unique requirements of the rider, ensuring that it is a perfect fit . 16 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 CSR – Focusing Education HTL marking excellence under Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the field of Education ILMGAH SCHOOL SYSTEMS The HTL-CSR Era of change began in 2011 with the initiative of setting up Ilmgah School in Lahore for the children of Green Town Area. The idea behind setting up a school in this locality was to educate the less privileged segment of our society. The school initially started from primary level till Grade 3 with 35 students and 5 teachers’ accommodated in a 5 marla building. Since the response from the community was beyond expectations that within two years adjacent two buildings were acquired to manage the increasing number of enrollments. The buildings were renovated according to the rising educational needs of School. This new building got registered in 2014 as Ilmgah Boys Middle School and the school upgraded to grade 5. From day one, teachers have been hired on merit ensuring that the international teaching standards are not compromised. Today 370 children of the Green town area are getting high standard education through Ilmgah. We are certain that our students are equally capable than students attending private schools around the country. The students have been performing exceptionally well as the results of Punjab Examination Commission for Grade 5 proved that Ilmgah has surpassed all other institutions by grasping top positions consistently. Today, the management has successully registered Ilmgah as Ilmgah School Systems. We are in the transitional phase where the management of Ilmgah plans to introduce students to the Tech Based Learning for which we are undergoing the expansion of the school to have more spacious rooms for maximum number to cater. Within few years, the school has become a promising platform for children to learn, experiment and grow confident to live their dreams, fighting all odds. 17 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 An Educational Trip—A Visit to the Army Museum Museums are community centers designed to inform and teach the public. The traditional role of museums is to collect objects and materials of cultural, religious and historical importance, preserve them, research into them and present them to the public for the purpose of education and enjoyment. To provide a unique interactive experience of getting up close to things that students usually see in books, newspapers and Television, Hi-Tech Lubricants limited arranged an Educational Trip for the Ilmgah students to the Army Museum located in Cantt. Students from Grade 5 to Grade 9 got the opportunity to learn about Pakistan Army’s history and their work. Children were split into different groups and the museum management informed them about the equipment displayed, wars that have been fought and our war heroes. Students were very happy and excited to see all the machines and equipment exhibited under one roof, used in 1965-1971 wars fought between India and Pakistan by our brave army. According to the Administrator Ilmgah, Mr. Azhar Nawaz, It was a great learning experience for the students and describes it as a reliable source of infotainment. Hi-Tech raising Employees as Responsible Citizens Keeping its tradition of paying back to the Society, Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd, in association with the Sundas Foundation, organized a Blood Donation Camp in the HTL’s Warehouse premises at 18 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 Sundar, Lahore. The Drive began with an awareness talk that enumerated the benefits of donating blood. The Hi-Tech Blending Plant staff and the Warehouse staff displayed true humanitarian spirit, a hallmark of every Mas Group family by participating in the camp enthusiastically. It was encouraging to see the residents of Bhai Kot locality joining the camp to support the cause. The Sundas Foundation coordinator, Mr. Tariq appreciated the efforts of Hi-Tech Lubricants in aligning decent number of Blood Donors. He congratulated for successfully motivating people and creating awareness about the benefits of donating blood. The management of Hi-Tech Lubricants ltd appreciated the Sundas Team for their noble initiative of saving lives and expressed gratitude towards all the Donors for making the camp a success. The Camp helped the local community in gaining awareness about Thalassemia and deepened social awareness among the MAS Group family too. HTL engaged in sharing smiles to miles Hi-tech lubricants limited in collaboration with Sundas Foundation setup a Blood Donation Camp to celebrate Sharing Smiles Day. This camp was held in the premises of HTL officeIslamabad where people donated blood for the patients of Thalassemia, hemophilia and blood cancer. 19 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 The chairman of Sundas Foundation appreciated the HTL faculty in Islamabad and the sales teams of ZIC and ZIC M in successfully arranging the camp to help in this great cause. It is worthy to mention that the participation of donors was not restricted only to Islamabad which much contributed in making the camp a success. There were many people who travelled hours to contribute their share in this life saving act. This one day activity ended on lucky Draw announcing 5000 rupees cash per winner which was specifically meant to acknowledge the blood donors and motivate them to keep helping the community within their best possible capacity. HTL SPONSORED FAST –NATIONAL UNIVERSITY CARE FOR ALL ANNUAL EVENT Hi-Tech lubricants ltd is a Socially Responsible Entity that aspire not only businesses but academic institutions to play an influential role by being a Change Maker themselves at first. Supporting to its belief, HTL sponsored “Care For All Annual Event” organized by FAST Care Welfare Society. This welfare society established under FAST NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, strives to aid individuals that are in need and create awareness among people who can help. This Two day event featured speeches from one of the best speakers in the country followed by a theatre performances and a concert to conclude with. 20 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 HTL believes that the purpose of academic institutions should not be merely restricted to providing education but they should also help turn their students into well-rounded individuals with a passion to give back to the society. MDICAL CAMP AT BHAI KOT – LAHORE – Health is the Greatest Wealth They say Health is the greatest Wealth! Hi-tech Lubricants ltd operated a free medical camp at Bhai Kot, Sundar in collaboration with Transparent Hands organization on Friday 4 th May 2018. A team of qualified doctors gave free medical aid to the poor and the under privileged. This Free medical camp was a means to bring awareness amongst the deprived population of the country who have no access to basic healthcare services or knowledge about the diseases if they are suffering from any. 21 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 The camp assisted with free tests and free medicines and each individual was subjected to utmost care. Announcements after short intervals, in the local masjid were made to assure maximum get facilitated with the camp. The HTL Management appreciated the efforts made by the Hi-Tech Blending Plant operational Staff in coordinating with the union counsel people of the locality and assuring decent number of footfall. 22 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 6.0. Labor Principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction with sound health. Hi-Tech is continuously developing its employee workforce and protection measures through employee trainings. We believe in the safety and protection of our employees especially those employed on the field for providing oil and gas services. As well as our warehouse staff responsible for storage and maintenance of our products. It is part of Hi-Tech’ vision and policy to recruit and hire employees without discrimination of race, color, religion, sex, age, language, physical condition etc. and treat them equally with respect to compensation and opportunities for advancement and career growth, including promotions & transfer. Ours is a culture of zero tolerance against any such discrimination and with an open door policy for all old and new employees. Various occupational hazards are associated with the nature of the work that Hi-Tech is engaged in. We provide appropriate medical attention in the event of serious incidents and subsequent injuries to personnel. We follow best practice through the provision of medical insurance to employees and their families that covers medical issues, assets and business risk. 23 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 6.2. Measurement of Outcomes Hi-Tech is committed to achieve measurable improvements in our processes and systems with regard to UNGC Labor Principles.  ERADICATING CHILD LABOR THROUGH PROVISION OF EDUCATION: Our company is directly involved in abolishing child labor through the provision of education to those children of Green Town area, Lahore who have no other means of acquiring education to score a bright future for themselves. Ilmgah School is involved in this community development project since 2011.  Grievance Handling and Harassment policy: We have reviewed and updated our Harassment and Grievance policy procedures for fair and confidential resolution of all such related conflicts. As previously discussed, our Audit and Human Resources Divisions have created a transparent and accountable system through Disciplinary Committee. The committee ensures fulfillment of all accountability requirements throughout their appeals procedures. We have also ensured that our employees are aware of these procedures and the routes they can take to get their complaints addressed and resolved.  HSE Trainings Series In the year 2017 HTL keeps focuses on enhancing its business success by reducing risks and adding values to its services and people. Organization wide training series designed for 2016 continued in the same spirit during 2017 to act in accordance with the ISO 14001 (Environment Management Systems) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety) Standards. Following to this HTL has so far conducted following learning sessions on;  Manual handling & Injury prevention Skills  Defensive Driving 24 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILL AGAINST FIRE HAZARD & MOCK DRILLS HTL focuses on enhancing its business success by reducing risks and adding values to its services and people. HTLs’ wholly owned subsidiary company HTBL being an OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certified company has a comprehensive management system procedure in order to efficiently respond to any kind of uncertain emergency situation. As a step towards emergency preparedness different mock drills are carried out to assess the effectiveness of trainings held one among these is the emergency evacuation drill against fire hazard. This drill was conducted both in the HTL head office and the Blending Plant premises. Designated emergencies exits and evacuation areas (or “assembly points”) within or near the company premises were clearly marked and made clear to all employees. An evacuation plan / map or site layout is posted in near main gate of the company for the general awareness of everyone. The maps show evacuation routes, recovery routes, closest exits, fire protection equipment location, eye wash and shower station, spill control station etc. At the same time, HTL compels its employees to obtain essential practical knowledge about emergency handling procedures to minimize the harmful consequences of injuries and occupational illness. Continuing the HSE training series, Fire Evacuation Drill was conducted in Lahore lead by the external facilitator Mr. Hassan Zahid in collaboration with the administration department. The corporate office staff along with the Board of Directors also participated in the drill. The training provided the employees with must to-do guidelines associated with emergency evacuation procedures. 25 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 7.0. Environmental Principle Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 7.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals Within the scope of our business activities, Hi-Tech understands the value and worth of a sustainable environment. We are committed towards saving energy and using minimum resources for our activities to save national resources. Our environmental activities and following policy is reflective of our support towards UNGC environmental principles.  Environmental Policy: Our Code of Conduct clearly states that “we actively make efforts to create and maintain a clean and sustainable green environment.” We take responsibility for people and the environment. We are committed to the wellbeing of our employees and to the care of our environment. We conduct business activities in a way that is safe for our employees, our contractors, visitors to our sites, the communities we operate in, and our environment. We protect the environment by preventing or minimizing the environmental impact of our activities and products through appropriate design, distribution and disposal practices. 26 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 7.2. Measurement of Outcomes Hi-Tech has established standardized processes for measurable improvements in our environmental processes, systems and culture. These procedures and policies lie at the core of our products and development.  Our Environment Friendly Products: Our products are standardized so as to decrease their hazardous effect on the environment. Our products are certified as being environment friendly. Our brand provides ILSAC (International Lubricants Standardization and Approval Committee) approved lubricants which show Environment Friendly characteristics as mentioned below: 1. More fuel economy. 2. Low wear rate of engine metallic parts which can destroy the environment 3. Low SAPS (Sulphated Ash, Phosphorus and Sulphur) 4. Maximum emission control system (exhaust gas catalytic converters) protection 5. Compatible with CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) Laws 6. Low engine smoke generation  Environmental Responsibility: Our company’s existence is not lonely. It’s part of a bigger system of people, values, other organizations and nature. The Social responsibility of any business should be to give back to the world just as it gives to us. HTL is well aware of the fact that cars, trucks and other forms of transportation are the single largest contributors to air pollution around the Globe. And here comes our huge responsibility while serving in the lubricant sector, to provide solutions to lessen the carbon emissions as a result of increased number of vehicles on road. In wake of which, HTL in its product line has wide range of environment-friendly products. They are safer for environment and long-life enhancers for heavy and light traffic vehicles’ engines. 27 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 HTL is fully aware of its responsibilities towards the environment. HTL aims to protect and preserve the environment as well as avoiding any practice that is harmful to the environment, executing their work strictly by observing legal, legislative and administrative acts. Knowing its responsibility towards environment HTL is committed; i. To minimize discharges of noise, air pollution and waste products ii. To continually monitor the environmental impact of our operations iii. To comply with environmental legislation and other requirements iv. To minimize our impact on the environment and promote good environmental practices within our business operations and activities v. To participate in discussions about environmental issues vi. To educate HTL employees in all environmental issues and the environmental effects of their activities vii. To monitor the progress and review environmental performance against targets and objectives set by the company on a regular basis viii. To launch environmental and health initiatives for friendly and healthy Pakistan TO ACT RESPONSIBLE IS OUR CORE VALUE HI-TECH LUBRICANTS ORGANISED AN AWARENESS WALK FOR SMOG In the last few years, Smog has emerged as a Life threatening problem around the Globe. The alarming increase in the Air pollution levels has provoked the nations to take immediate actions soon before it completely disrupts the Ozone layer. In Pakistan, unnecessary cutting of trees and at the same time increased number of vehicles on road, while plantation of trees is minimal, is the major cause of Smog. In wake of its harmful effects on Climate and our people’s health Hi-tech Lubricants held a walk at Hi-Tech Blending Plant, Sundar, Lahore to raise awareness among people regarding the causes and preventive measures against smog. 28 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 Mr. Yaqub Aziz, Chief Operating Officer Hi-Tech Blending Plant along with the ZIC Country Head Mr. Ahmed Shujah led the walk with their Blending Plant Staff, Warehouse Faculty and Sales Teams of ZIC and ZIC M. Large number of local community of Sundar also participated in the walk. The purpose of the Walk was to raise an urge about Planting Trees in order to reduce the extreme levels of air pollution. The participants of walk used masks as an essential precautionary measure during smog. The walk concluded on planting second batch of Trees in reference to HTL’s Go Green Initiative. 29 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 Community Knowledge Sharing Sessions: In order to sustain a top position a brand has to keep on improvising on how to reach its target market and convey their message in an influential way. Since ZIC is the best lubricant available in the market and the majority of the mechanics vow for ZIC hence trainings, seminars have been made a regular part to educate the mechanics of the new trends especially with the induction of new imported cars including hybrid vehicles and ZIC applications. These seminars revolve around the innovations taking place in the automobile industry in retrospect with the lubricants. These seminars are open to question answer sessions regarding engine, engine oil and the necessities of quality lubrication for the health of engine with the objective to satisfy end customers. 1. USE of ENERGY SAVING Technology – IDEAL FOR CONSERVING ENERGY Global warming is one of the biggest problems the world is facing today. Hi-Tech acts responsibly to avoid its causes. Hi-Tech has deployed energy savers with SMD (Surface Mount Device) – LED (Low Emission Diode) Technology. HTL believes that by making small changes now, in the way we live we can avoid huge changes in the future. My Green Rawalpindi Hi-tech Lubricants Ltd is making sustainable moves in creating Pakistan greener! HTL in collaboration with Rawalpindi Chamber of Commerce & Industry (RCCI) launched its Tree Plantation Campaign supporting the slogan of My Green Rawalpindi. In the first phase before Ramadan 11,000 plants have already been planted. However, committed to reach a target of 1 Lakh plant still 89,000 plants are being made ready as soon as we begin the second phase of the campaign. The sole purpose of this campaign is to make a greener, a better Pakistan, and also to create awareness of the importance of planting more trees to help save the environment. 30 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 8. Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our Code of Conduct has a specific clause for “FRAUD, DECEPTION, DISHONESTY, BRIBERY & CORRUPTION” as detailed below” “Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. Fraud basically means to deceive or to act dishonestly or to abuse your power or position to take advantage of an individual or the company assets. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests.” 31 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 8.2. Measurement of Outcomes According to UNGC Anti-Corruption Principle, Hi-Tech has been trying to achieve measurable improvements in our related processes and systems.  Anti-Corruption Check System: We have an effective Anti-Corruption check and balance system. Headed by our Internal Audit and Planning Department. This system overviews all business Operations and supply chain procedures to make sure that we are 100% in compliance with the ISO standards.  Inventory Transparency Check System: Our Market Audit and Procurement teams jointly follow a Transparency check procedure for gifts procurement from our inventory or external market. A trade scheme is announced firstly based on point value. Gifts are allocated based on those points (purchase bars of our product). A claim listing all gifts is forwarded to the market audit department who verify the list and offer the complete list of existing gifts within our inventory to the procurement department. Then these items are procured from within our inventory through the above mentioned transparency check procedure. 32 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2018 9. Summary Through our various activities, sessions and implemented processes, we continue our journey towards the acceptance, implementation and development of the 10 UNGC Principles relating to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption within our operations. Our future outcome is related to furthering this developmental process and to publish our next Communication on Progress (COP) with a broader spectrum of initiatives with a more strengthened foothold within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. ALONE WE CAN DO SO LITTLE TOGETHER WE CAN DO SO MUCH ~HELEN KELLER~ 33 | P a g e
