CSR Report 2018 Message from 12th Medium-Term Top Management Management Plan Bringing new value to Contents society with +TAKUMA (Cover: Imabari City Waste Management Center) 51 Human Rights and Labor Practices Corporate Respect for Human Rights and the Information 3 Message from Top Management Abolition of Discrimination / Working with Our Employees 7 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health History Management Plan ̶ An Overview 57 The Environment 12 12th Medium-Term Management Plan and Basic Environmental Policy / Environmental Management The Takuma Feature: The CSR Topics Founder Tsunekichi Takuma invented the ﬁrst boiler to be Takumaʼs CO2 Reduction Technologies 17 Corporate Information Environmental Reporting produced entirely in Japan by bringing expertise and technology 61 Fair Business Practices Group Network King of Boilers 19 History to a product that had to be imported until that time. Compliance & CSR Promotion Education / 21 The Takuma Group Network Compliance Measures CSR Awareness Survey / In-house Reporting System / By passing down this philosophy over time and augmenting it with 23 Feature: The King of Boilers Material Procurement Policy Tsunekichi Takuma and His Company Introduction to Takumaʼs technology, we continue to create products with new Takumaʼs 63 Consumer Issues 29 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Activities Involving Product Quality Businesses value today. 1. Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business CSR Activities 2. Energy Plant Business 65 Participation in the Community 3. Water Treatment Plant Business 4. Activities of Our Overseas Business 66 Contribution to Society for the Future Going forward, we will provide that value to customers through 41 CSR Activities for the Future 67 Financial Data Corporate plants that take advantage of the proprietary technologies we have CSR Activities for the Future developed since our founding in areas such as combustion, waste Group Company CSR Topics 73 Outside Expert Opinion Governance Outside Expert Opinion Response to the Outside Expert Opinion / Human Rights and treatment, and water treatment. 45 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Takuma Corporate Proﬁle & CSR Report 2017 Questionnaire Survey Results / The Environment Internal Control / Compliance & CSR Promotion Structure Editorial Policy Labor Practices Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Plan (BCP) / IR Activities Directors and Executive Ofﬁcers Fair Business Practices Consumer Issues Participation in the Community/ Financial Data Contribution to Society Outside Expert Opinion 1 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 2 Message from Top Management Message from Top Management We are working to achieve sustained growth together with society through the policies outlined ■ About the new Medium-Term Management Plan The fourth policy is to use human resources more effectively. In addition to hiring and training the more by our new Medium-Term Management Plan. This April, the Group embarked on the 12th diverse workforce that will be essential for the future Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2018 to FY2020), development of our businesses, we will work to put in place which embodies the ﬁnal stage of its current mediumand an environment that allows each and every employee to do long-term vision (corporate vision). Although we expect their jobs in an energetic and engaged manner so that they demand to remain robust during the years covered by the can take full advantage of their skills and abilities. plan, we also anticipate that the business environment will The ﬁfth policy is to continue to pursue compliance undergo major changes as Japanese policy and social management. The Group has consistently considered structure continue to evolve over the medium and long compliance to be a key basis for corporate activities, and term. The plan identiﬁes ﬁve policies to boost the Groupʼs the last several Medium-Term Business Plans have included strength so that we can achieve our corporate vision and policies that address this area in an effort to ensure the subsequently realize steady growth in light of the future penetration and implementation of associated measures. A changes we expect to see in the business environment. sustained program of awareness-raising and educational The ﬁrst policy is to strengthen and expand our revenue activities has helped compliance awareness to take root foundation. The Groupʼs products̶that is, waste treatment throughout our organization, and we will continue to plants, water treatment plants, and boiler plants̶serve as pursue improvements so the trust that our quality and social infrastructure and as a base for companiesʼ business other accomplishments inspires will remain unshaken. In activities. Most products remain in use for a long time addition, we will work to ensure that enhanced awareness following their delivery to customers, often 20 or 30 years, of the importance of compliance permeates the company and our ability to provide sustained, high-quality even more deeply by effectively implementing and after-sales service to ensure that those products function utilizing mechanisms such as our in-house reporting longer and more effectively contributes to our customersʼ system and CSR awareness questionnaire survey. proﬁts as well as our own, providing a basis for stable, long-term proﬁts. By supplying high-quality solutions throughout the plant and product life cycle in order to ■ Responsible corporate management precisely meet customersʼ diversifying needs, we will work Through the current Medium-Term Management Plan to further strengthen and enhance our revenue base. the Group is working to build business and management The second policy is to achieve sustained growth. Over platforms that will be resistant to future changes in the the approximately 80 years since its founding, the Group business environment. In order for us to achieve those has supplied products built around a core of technology priorities, I believe that it will be important for us to live up that have earned recognition for their high value, giving it to the trust placed in us by all stakeholders, including an essential role in society. Drawing on strengths including customers, shareholders and investors, business partners, the technology, track record, experience, and expertise employees, and local communities, in a spirit of good faith. accumulated through our business activities to date, we To that end, we will work aggressively to implement will achieve sustained growth by continuing to develop corporate governance, compliance, and risk management unique technologies, services, and business models; in a way that serves as a basis for our corporate activities creating value for customers; and securing and creating going forward. competitive advantages by rapidly accommodating changes In the corporate vision adopted in 2012, the Takuma In our EPC business, we ﬁrmly harnessed robust demand in the business environment, for example in the form of Group embraced the goal of continuing to play an essential to drive orders, allowing us to secure a certain position in evolving needs and the emergence of new social issues. role for society as a leading company in the utilization of the various markets we serve while building a foothold to The third policy is to increase productivity, for example renewable energy and in the ﬁeld of environmental expand that position by capturing orders for multiple large by reforming business processes. The Groupʼs businesses protection and of achieving ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10.0 biomass power plants and sludge-fueled power plants. In are changing dramatically in response to changes in the billion in FY2020. Under our 11th Medium-Term businesses that generate base proﬁts, we pursued business environment, including structural changes such as Management Plan (FY2015 to FY2017), which identiﬁed initiatives to expand those proﬁts in an effort to maintain the aging and shrinking of Japanʼs population and a the realization of sustained growth as a top priority, we and increase proﬁtability, for example by developing a tendency for customersʼ needs and social issues to become worked to expand our businesses in terms of both quality business foundation and strengthening our maintenance more sophisticated and diverse. To address these changes, and quantity in order to achieve that corporate vision capabilities. As the result of these initiatives, we were able we will seek to more effectively utilize human resources through the six policies set forth in the plan, including to steadily expand our business in terms of both quality and to provide higher value to customers by boosting maintaining and expanding our market position in the and quantity, and to achieve our targets for consolidated productivity by radically reviewing and rebuilding business EPC* business and expanding businesses that generate order value and consolidated ordinary proﬁt under our processes that have become more complex and focusing on base proﬁts. quantitative plan. higher-added-value operations. *EPC business: A business in which Takuma offers turnkey service extending from plant design to procurement and construction. 3 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 4 Message from Top Management Message from Top Management ■ Achieving sustained growth together with society The Takuma Group has joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which is a voluntary Company Motto Value Technology, Value People, Value the Earth effort to create a global framework for Takuma has been a signatory to the United Nations implementing sustainable growth by having Global Compact since 2006, and we support its 10 companies and groups exercise responsible and creative leadership while acting as good members Management Principles fundamental principles in the 4 areas of human rights, of society. labour, environment, and anti-corruption. We will work to Reference: UN Global Compact Takuma will strive for social contribution, corporate value enhancement, long-term corporate development and the develop our business while understanding and respecting http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ satisfaction of all stakeholders by providing goods and services that are needed and recognized as valuable in society. these globally shared principles. In addition, concerning the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals In closing, in compiling this CSR Report we have sought The founding spirit of Takuma was “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing,”* which in present-day language (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations and the provisions not only to provide a resource by means of which a broad means “contribution to society by supplying goods and services that we yield.” This spirit can also be applied to the concept of of the Paris Agreement adopted at COP21, the Group is range of stakeholders could learn more about the Takuma Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that in recent years has become a vital issue for corporate management. The management helping resolve social issues with technologies for reducing Groupʼs activities, but also to help each and every Group principles of the Takuma group companies are all based on the said founding spirit. emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide through employee think carefully about CSR and bring that * Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing high-efﬁciency generation of electricity using waste and perspective to bear in his or her work. We at the Takuma It was the Company Motto of Takuma, then Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., founded by Mr. Tsunekichi Takuma, one of the ten great biomass. Group encourage readers to offer their candid views and inventors of Japan during the Meiji and Taisho periods (1868‒1926). advice, which we will carefully review in order that we might better resolve social issues and contribute to the Takuma Group Ethics Charter sustained development of society. Takuma and the Takuma Group companies believe that it is essential for the sound development of the group that all of the directors and employees remain aware of our social responsibilities and the circumstances July 2018 surrounding us as well as act in response to social ethics complying with applicable related laws and ordinances. Takaaki Kato Bearing the above in mind, we have established and will promote this ethics charter as our code of conduct, President and CEO aiming to realize our management principles. Takuma Co., Ltd. 1. We shall strive for proactive social contribution while establishing a harmonious coexistence with the global environment as good corporate citizens. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2. We shall act in good faith in accordance with sound business custom, while complying with applicable laws and regulations and committing ourselves to fair, transparent and free competition, as well as conducting lawful business activities. 3. We shall never have any relationship with antisocial forces or organizations, which may pose a threat to the social order and security of The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a series of international goals covering the time period of 2016 to 2030 as civil society. described in “Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,” which was adopted at a UN summit in 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights and never practice discrimination. September 2015. The SDGs were intended to pick up where the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which were 5. We shall strive to provide high quality products and services, based on our advanced technologies, to attain high acclaim and conﬁdence formulated in 2001, left off. They consist of 169 targets organized around 17 goals for achieving a sustainable world, built from our customers. around the pledge of leaving no one behind. Intended to be implemented not only by developing nations, but also by 6. We shall strive to disclose corporate information to shareholders and investors through investor relations (IR) and other activities on a advanced nations, they are universal in scope, and Japan is working actively to implement them. timely and equitable basis. Takuma, too, is working to further progress toward the SDGs through its business activities. (The “Introduction to Takumaʼs 7. We shall strive to protect corporate properties as well as information, while never using either for improprieties or any unjustiﬁable purpose other than normal business operations. Businesses” section on pages 29 to 40 of this report includes icons representing the SDGs that are related to each business.) Takuma Group Code of Conduct Harmony with society Practice of customer satisfaction 1. Coexistence with the global environment 12. Safety of products and services as well as 2. Coexistence with international society ensuring reliability 3. Practice of social contribution activities 13. Policies concerning advertising Practice of compliance with laws and ordinances as well Making appropriate disclosure of information as sound economic activities 14. Transmission of corporate information 4. Free competition and fair trade 15. Ensuring reliability of ﬁnancial reporting 5. Relationship with politics and public 16. Prohibition of insider trading administration Protection of corporate properties and information 6. Policies concerning business entertainment 17. Management and proper use of corporate and gift-giving properties 7. Prohibition of involvement in anti-social activities 18. Handling of conﬁdential information 8. Appropriate export and import transactions 19. Intellectual property protection Respect for basic human rights 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions 10. Respect for individuality, personal quality, and privacy 11. Safe work environment 5 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 6 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan ‒ An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 1. Reﬂections on the 11th Medium-Term Management Plan 2. Business Environment 12th Medium-Term Management Plan 1 Initiatives to implement policies We expect to see continued robust demand in the Groupʼs principal business domains. ● Creation of customer value Accommodation of ● At the same time, the business environment is expected to undergo major changes over the medium and long term, environmental changes including changes in demand in response to evolving national policies and the structure of society, increased reliance on and risk management Ongoing comprehensive contracts due to a trend to outsource government services, and increasing sophistication and diversity in Initiatives of the 11th Medium-Term Management Plan (2015 to 2017) innovation Leveraging the companyʼs total capabilities customer needs. Current 3-year period(12th Medium-Term Management Plan) Future (medium and long term) Build upon our previous results to further improve our business in terms Renewal and service life elongation demand will continue as facilities age. of both quantity and quality in order to achieve sustained growth. ● ● Renewal and service life elongation demand will eventually fall off. ● There will continue to be demand for more efﬁcient energy use and ● The market will contract due to the aging and shrinking of Japanʼs Waste treatment additional functionality (development of disaster prevention and population. plants peripheral facilities, etc.). ● The trend to outsource government services (by making use of the ● Maintenance and expansion of ● Further enhancement of the (Japan) ● Comprehensive contracts for plant operation, for example in the form private sector) will gain momentum. of DBO and O&M arrangements, will become more common. Management base market position in the EPC business companyʼs ﬁnancial strength ● Expansion of businesses that ● Human resources management ● Renewal demand will increase as sewage treatment plants age. ● Comprehensive contracts for plant construction and operation, Water treatment ● Demand for converting sewage sludge into energy will grow. such as PPP/PFI arrangements, will become more common. generate base proﬁts ● Cultivation of a robust plants ● PPP arrangement (that make use of the private sector) will be ● There will continue to be demand for energy conservation, energy ● Initiatives that target growth organizational culture (Japan) embraced by the sewer industry. creation, and resource use. markets ● There will continue to be demand from FIT projects. ● Demand for renewable energy will continue as society works to ● The number of plants targeted for maintenance will continue to grow achieve a new energy mix by 2030. Boiler plants as more plants come online. ● Use of regional distributed biomass will continue. ● Creation of customer value ● Ongoing innovation (Japan) ● Demand for plant operational management and O&M will grow. ● There will continue to be a certain level of demand for renewal and ● Accommodation of environmental changes and risk management fuel conversion of existing plants. ● Demand for biomass power plants in Southeast Asia will remain robust. ● There will continue to be a certain level of demand against the Boiler plants ● Our ﬂagship bagasse-ﬁred boiler plants will continue to face intense backdrop of rich biomass resources. (overseas) competition, especially from manufacturers in countries such as India ● Demand for using a variety of fuels such as EFB will grow. Results and issues and China. ● Demand for Waste to Energy will grow in Southeast Asia due to Waste treatment growing urbanization, and an increase in, and diversiﬁcation of, waste. ● In our EPC business, we established a certain position in the markets we serve by ● The market will expand as economies grow. plants ● Market development will be gradual due to institutional and ﬁnancial steadily harnessing robust demand to drive orders. (overseas) issues, amongst others. ● We built a foothold to expand our presence by capturing orders for multiple large ● A certain level of demand will continue due to factors such as renewal ● The Japanese market will contract due to the aging and shrinking Package boilers demand even as the Japanese market matures. of the countryʼs population. biomass power plants and sludge-fueled power plants. (general-purpose ● Demand for energy-conserving boilers will grow overseas particularly ● The market will expand further as emerging nationsʼ economies ● Businesses that generate base proﬁts allowed us to generally achieve the proﬁt boilers) in emerging nations. grow. targets outlined in the plan, contributing to stable consolidated earnings. Biomass Power Plant ● A certain level of demand will continue for both building equipment Equipment and ● A certain level of demand will continue for both building equipment ● Preparing a stage for overseas expansion and developing human resources continue and semiconductor manufacturing equipment as construction demand systems and semiconductor manufacturing equipment. rises and investment in the semiconductor industry expands. to be important issues. ● We maintained a certain level of equity ratio thanks to continued proﬁtability. *DBO : Design Build Operate / O&M : Operation & Maintenance / PPP : Public Private Partnership / PFI : Private Finance Initiative / FIT : Feed-in Tariff / EFB : Empty Fruit Bunch ● Efforts to secure adequate manpower, for example through midcareer hires, as a way to accommodate growth in orders faced difﬁculty due to a shortage of workers. Tight 3. Positioning of the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan labor conditions persisted. ● Compliance and CSR awareness spread throughout the Group thanks to ongoing initiatives. Sewage Sludge-Fueled Power Plant ● The plan represents the ﬁnal stage of the current mediumand long-term vision (corporate vision), for which FY2020 is the target year. During its three years, we will achieve the vision and boost our corporate capabilities to prepare for steady growth in the 2 Quantitative results ● Order value Ordinary proﬁt future in response to future changes that are forecasted to occur in the business environment. Sales Line indicating ordinary proﬁt of ● Business volume expanded steadily against a JPY 10 billion Previous medium-and Next mediumand long-term vision Current mediumand long-term vision (corporate vision) long-term vision backdrop of robust demand. Order value signiﬁcantly exceeded the plan, while the order Aim to maintain our role of being an indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the ﬁeld of renewable energy utilization and environmental protection. backlog grew to the JPY 200 billion level. ● In terms of quality, we achieved the level of Ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10 billion in FY2020 (Build structures capable of consistently earning ordinary proﬁt outlined in the plan and made smooth proﬁt of at least JPY 10 billion even as the business environment undergoes major changes.) progress toward our goal of reaching ordinary 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Consistently secure annual proﬁt of JPY 10 billion in FY2020. (FY2018 to FY2020) ordinary proﬁt of at least JPY 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 10 billion. 11 Medium-Term Management Plan th Strengthening of (Billion JPY) (FY2015 to FY2017) corporate capability to facilitate steady growth 9th Medium-Term 10th Medium-Term 11th Medium-Term Management Plan results 11th Medium-Term 10th Medium-Term Management Plan Steady expansion in Management Plan results Management Plan results Management Plan (FY2012 to FY2014) terms of both quantity Cumulative ordinary proﬁt target (2009 to 2011) (2012 to 2014) 2015 2016 2017 Total targets and quality Order value 257.8 371.0 99.9 191.0 177.1 468.0 400.0 9th Medium-Term Management Plan Reinforcement of business JPY 33.0 billion (FY2009 to FY2011) foundation for stability Cumulative ordinary proﬁt results Sales 285.2 296.5 113.0 116.3 118.1 347.5 360.0 and proﬁtability Proﬁtability through JPY 31.9 billion Ordinary proﬁt 13.7 25.7 9.6 11.6 10.6 31.9 27.0 selection and Cumulative ordinary proﬁt results Order backlog 78.1 152.5 139.4 214.1 273.0 − − concentration of resources JPY 25.7 billion *Order backlog ﬁgures are provided for the last year of each Medium-Term Management Plan and for the end of each ﬁscal year. 7 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 8 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan ‒ An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 4. Policies of the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan 12th Medium-Term Management Plan ● By undertaking ﬁve new policies in line with the three perspectives continued from the 11th Medium-Term Management ■ Policies ■ Perspectives for achieving our policies Plan, we will strengthen proﬁtability and competitiveness while working to strengthen our management foundation, with a focus on effective use of human resources. In this way, we will strive to achieve our mediumand long-term vision while Strengthening and expanding our Creation of customer value building a robust business and management foundation in response to future changes in the business environment. revenue foundation Strive to create new value from the customersʼ perspective and avoid price competition by working closely with, and Achieving sustained growth developing a deep understanding of, customers. Ongoing innovation Increasing productivity, for example by Many of the Groupʼs products are used for a long period of time, for example for 20 or 30 years from the time of delivery. reforming business processes Achieve sustained differentiation by pursuing innovation in Offering high-quality after-sales service in an ongoing manner so that customers can use those products more effectively and terms of both technologies and business models, and leverage over a longer period of time contributes to both customersʼ and the Groupʼs proﬁts, helping to create a foundation for stable, that differentiation to create the value demanded by customers. Using human resources effectively long-term earnings. We will work to further strengthen and expand our revenue foundation by continuing to provide high-quality solutions Accommodation of environmental changes and Continuing to pursue compliance throughout the plant and product life cycle as we meet customersʼ diversifying needs in an individualized manner. risk management management Adapt to changes of the business environment in which the company operates (e.g., changes in the economic climate, revisions to applicable laws, and changes in customer needs) and strengthen initiatives to treat such changes as business Over the 80 years since the Groupʼs founding, we have built a reputation as an essential part of society by providing products opportunities. that are recognized for their value utilizing our technologies which are the core part of our company. We will create customer value by continually developing unique technologies, services, and business models based on Takumaʼs strengths such as the technologies, track record, experience, and expertise that weʼve accumulated through our business activities to date. In addition, we will work to secure sustained growth by securing and creating competitive Achieving our vision advantages as we respond quickly to changes in the business environment, such as evolving customer needs and emerging Building a business and management foundation that is resilient during change social issues. 5. Financial Target The nature of the Groupʼs businesses is undergoing major evolution as the business environment changes, for example due to changes in social structure such as the shrinking and aging of Japanʼs population and the emergence of more advanced and diverse customer needs as well as social issues. We will strive to improve productivity, make effective use of human resources, and further increase the level of value we Target: 3-year cumulative consolidated ordinary proﬁt of JPY 33 billion provide by fundamentally reviewing and rebuilding business processes that have become increasingly complex in order to accommodate these changes while focusing on businesses with higher added value (which will help us create and provide The 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, which 500 (Billion JPY) 50 value). represents the ﬁnal stage of our current mediumand long-term vision, establishes the above targets 400 40 to guide our achievement of the visionʼs goal of consistently earning ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10 billion while simultaneously directing the company to 300 30 utilize all its resources to build a robust business We will work to hire and train the diverse workforce that will be essential as we develop the Groupʼs businesses going and management foundation in response to future forward. At the same time, we will strive to create an environment that keeps individual employees engaged in their work and changes in the business environment. 200 20 able to make full use of their skills and abilities (by cultivating a healthy workplace culture, reforming individual awareness, and facilitating fulﬁlling workstyles). Order value (left scale) 100 10 Sales (left scale) Ordinary proﬁt (right scale) 0 0 10th Plan 11th Plan 12th Plan (Billion JPY) The Group considers compliance to be a key foundation of its corporate activities, and weʼve worked to spread awareness 12th Medium-Term and foster adoption of good practices by including compliance as a policy in the last several Medium-Term Management Plans. 10th Medium-Term Management Plan results 11th Medium-Term Management Plan results Management Plan Awareness of the importance of compliance has steadily taken root among our employees thanks to ongoing 2012 2013 2014 Total 2015 2016 2017 Total FY2018 to FY2020 awareness-raising and educational activities, and we will continue to pursue such initiatives to ensure that the trust weʼve built up in our quality and integrity remains unshakable. In addition, we will work to further spread and improve compliance Order value 109.2 148.0 113.7 371.0 99.9 191.0 177.1 468.0 JPY 400 billion (approx.) awareness throughout the Group by effectively implementing and utilizing mechanisms such as our internal reporting system (3-year cumulative total; and CSR awareness survey. Sales 96.3 96.3 103.8 296.5 113.0 116.3 118.1 347.5 reference value) Target: JPY 33 billion Ordinary proﬁt 7.1 9.4 9.1 25.7 9.6 11.6 10.6 31.9 (3-year cumulative total) 9 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 10 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan ‒ An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 6. Core Business Units and Emphasis of Future Activities 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business Waste Treatment Plant Business (Overseas) ● As facilities age, there is ongoing robust demand for renewal ● There is a growing need for proper waste management and energy Waste-to-Energy Plant Waste-to-Energy Plant (UK) and service life elongation. (DBO Project) utilization against a backdrop of growing urbanization, increase of Treatment capacity: 1,370 tons per day ● Volume is growing for DBO projects as well as O&M services Treatment capacity: 174 tons per day waste volume, and diversiﬁcation of waste characteristics. Generating capacity: 36,650 kW for existing facilities. Generating capacity: 3,800 kW Waste-to-Energy Plant ● Build structures to facilitate collaboration with partner companies. Waste-to-Energy Plant (China) ● Strengthen the proﬁtability of our plant operation business. (Primary equipment improvement project) ● Build schemes for entering new markets. Treatment capacity: 1,600 tons per day ● Further strengthen initiatives to prolong the service life of facilities. Treatment capacity: 810 tons per day Generating capacity: 30,000 kW Generating capacity: 17,200 kW Package Boiler Business Water Treatment Plant Business ● We are continuing to see a certain level of demand in Japan, particularly in terms of renewal demand. ● There is growing demand for sludge incineration plants that ● The need for energy-conserving boilers is increasing overseas, conserve and create energy. particularly in developing nations. ● There is increasing use of PPP/PFI arrangements in the Sludge-Fueled Power System Super Eqos EQi Series Demonstration Plant sewer business. Treatment capacity: 35 wet tons per day (with moisture content of about 70%) Super Vacotin Heater Generating output: About 100 kWh/h ● Maintain and expand our domestic business. GTL Series ● Expand our overseas business. ● Strengthen the competitiveness of our sludge-fueled power system. Moving Bed Upﬂow Continuous ● Scale our waste management expertise horizontally to other Sand Filtration System (high-speed) Treatment capacity: 29,500 m3 per day businesses. 12th Medium-Term Management Plan and CSR Topics Boiler Plant Business ( Japan) This section introduces how Takumaʼs management and the management of major Group companies view CSR issues and how they are working to resolve them as they strive to pursue their respective missions under the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, which began in FY2018. ● FIT demand remains robust. ● The number of plants targeted for maintenance is increasing as facilities are completed and transferred to customers. ● There is growing demand for plant operational management Wood Chip Biomass Power Plant Koji Tanaka Executive Manager, Corporate Services Division Generating capacity: 22,100 kW and O&M. The Corporate Services Divisionʼs mission is to help boost proﬁts throughout the Group by providing services to its various departments, for example so they can more effectively utilize information and other management resources and practice legal risk management. To that end, it is called upon to provide higher-quality services to help achieve steady growth and to enhance the Groupʼs capabilities. ● Capture new orders for FIT biomass plants. Due to the extensive scope of these operations, the Divisionʼs activities encompass a variety of CSR issues, including with ● Strengthen our maintenance structures. Wood Chip Biomass Power Plant regard to strengthening relationships with shareholders, BCP, information security, and reducing risk. Particularly important ● Scale our waste management expertise horizontally to other Generating capacity: 1,990 kW priorities under the current Medium-Term Management Plan address human resources, an area that plays an essential role as businesses. the basis of all business activities, including hiring practices and training programs as well as the development of an environment that will allow each and every employee to do his or her job in an energetic and engaged manner and to take advantage of his or her skills and abilities, while simultaneously facilitating improvements in productivity. Boiler Plant Business (Overseas) Tsuyohito Nishiyama Executive Manager, Corporate Planning & Administration Division The current Medium-Term Management Plan sets forth ﬁve policies to address the theme of strengthening corporate ● Demand for biomass power plants in Southeast Asia remains robust. capability to facilitate steady growth. ● Our ﬂagship bagasse-ﬁred boiler plants continue to experience Strengthening the Groupʼs corporate capabilities encompasses the meaning of transforming Takuma so that it will be intense competition. universally recognized as a good company, and the only way to do that is not only to pursue performance metrics, for Bagasse-Fired Boiler Plant (Thailand) example by increasing sales and proﬁts, but also to participate actively in the process of addressing social needs. We are seeing a shift in how the world determines corporate value in the form of a move from tangible assets to intangible assets, and one key area of risk that the world recognizes now is the environment. ● Capture orders continually by creating competitive advantages. The Group is keenly attuned to these social trends, and as we pursue a range of initiatives to make Takuma a better ● Strengthen the ability of our local subsidiary (SIAM TAKUMA) to company, we will be fulﬁlling our responsibilities by working to resolve social issues in the areas of renewable energy carry out its business operations. Bagasse-Fired Boiler Plant (Thailand) utilization and environmental protection. 11 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 12 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan ‒ An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 12th Medium-Term Management Plan and CSR Topics 12th Medium-Term Corporate Marketing Group Engineering Group Management Plan Kengo Numata Executive Manager, Corporate Marketing Group & Business Administration Division & Environmental Plant Division Hiroaki Nanjo Executive Manager, Engineering Group & Management Center We are seeking to increase Takumaʼs corporate value and to achieve sustained growth by formulating and executing a The Management Center is responsible for cost management and overall process management. Even as we continue to business strategy that will earn us the trust of a broad range of customers and other stakeholders. see robust demand for products such as biomass boilers and municipal solid waste treatment plants, the business For example, our ability to consistently supply high-quality solutions throughout the plant life cycle while responding environment is changing along with the structure of society. We will work to achieve a competitive cost structure by precisely to changes in the market environment and evolving customer needs yields mutual proﬁts for both customers optimizing costs to facilitate sustained growth. To that end, we will monitor pricing trends as they relate to supplies, and the Group over the long term. equipment, construction, and other costs and apply that information precisely to the processes we use to establish At the same time, maintaining and expanding our market position in such EPC markets as waste treatment plants and quotation costs and manage working budgets. We will also work to limit risk by focusing on process management and biomass power plants will allow us to make a signiﬁcant contribution to the resolution of a variety of current social cost progress management, including for civil engineering construction work. issues. In our overseas businesses, we will work to differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors by increasing the By formulating and executing these business strategies, I believe we will be able to build a business platform that is competitiveness of our boiler plants. With regard to waste treatment plants, we will study structures for facilitating resistant to change so that we can continue to develop as a company that plays an essential role in society. cooperation with partner companies and work to develop schemes for entering new markets. Akira Taguchi Executive Manager, Technology Center Hidetoshi Tomita Deputy Executive Manager, Environmental Plant Division The Technology Center is responsible for a swath of operations ranging from the development of Takumaʼs core technology products to design while surveying and monitoring the latest social needs. The Paris Agreement, which seeks to eliminate the worldʼs dependence on fossil fuels, entered into force in 2016, and In recent years, we have seen a trend toward proper processing of waste and hazardous materials in the environmental Takuma, too, has an obligation to pursue corporate activities to help achieve its goals. The Environmental Plant Division sector, along with a growing focus on reducing waste generation, reusing waste, and reducing waste volume. In the will help bring about a recycling-based society through the current Medium-Term Management Plan. We will reduce energy sector, the trend is toward making use of fuels and energy sources that have gone unutilized in the past, and on environmental impacts by working to eliminate and reduce greenhouse gases, speciﬁcally through advanced thermal creating new types of energy. Against this backdrop, Takuma will continue to consistently ship environmentally friendly recovery with high-efﬁciency power generation in waste treatment plant construction, through the reduction of CO2 products while making use of, and further developing, its stable of core technologies in areas such as combustion, emissions in core facility improvement projects at existing plants, and through power generation using incineration heat incineration, boilers, and exhaust gas treatment. at sewage sludge incineration plants. In addition, we will coexist alongside local residents through our DBO business by utilizing waste treatment facilities as places of environmental awareness-raising and as disaster prevention facilities in times of large-scale disasters, and by performing daily maintenance in an appropriate manner. Finally, we in the Environmental Plant Division look forward to fulﬁlling our social responsibility to help realize a recycling-based society by providing high-quality products and services. Hideki Takeguchi Executive Manager, Project Center The equipment and plants that Takuma provides effectively utilize waste products and byproducts from human life and production activities, including municipal waste, industrial waste, sewage sludge, and biomass, to create the utilities̶ electricity and heat̶that people need to live and that economies need to grow. In this way, we are able to give Mitsuaki Adachi Executive Manager, Energy Plant Division something back to society. Today, as we ﬁnd ourselves faced with the need to further increase use of renewable energy as one way to protect the Takumaʼs energy business has utilized the FIT scheme to deliver numerous biomass power plants, and we continue to Earthʼs environment, the Project Center is working to help build a society where future generations can enjoy rich and do so today. Under the current Medium-Term Management Plan, we will prioritize a permanent approach to plant fulﬁlling lifestyles, including by supplying plants designed to further the realization of a recycling-based society and to operation, including by continuing to accept orders and by enhancing maintenance business structures for operational reduce CO2 emissions, for example by generating power from municipal solid waste, sewage sludge, and biomass, and by plants, so that these facilities can serve as the foundation for clean energy. creating and developing the technologies and processes that will help expand the markets for such plants. We see our role with regard to a sustainable society as contributing to society by resolving issues through our businesses, for example by contributing to environmental protection by reducing CO2 emissions through the use of renewable energy in response to speciﬁc measures by governmental agencies to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including by promoting use of renewable energy, addressing climate change, and building a Norito Uchiyama Executive Manager, Engineering Center recycling-based society. The Engineering Center will promote the streamlining of speciﬁcations and design work in a way that takes life cycle cost into account and provides technologies with value in terms of equipment and control by analyzing plant data and utilizing information and communications technology (ICT). We will also realize stable operation and management over the long term by promoting energy savings at all types of facilities and providing solutions that deliver exceptional economic performance at a high level of efﬁciency. Takashi Manabe Executive Manager, International Operations Division We will also pursue open innovation in an effort to fulﬁll our social responsibility as a corporation by adopting a global perspective and working in partnership with Group companies, afﬁliates, and other organizations to accommodate The International Operations Division has identiﬁed a number of priorities as it works to implement the current changes in the business environment. Medium-Term Management Plan. To help realize a low-carbon society, we will strive to bring innovation to processes and products and to develop First, reﬂecting our belief that addressing compliance, safety, and environmental issues is a given, we are working to products that satisfy all stakeholders. develop our overseas businesses in a way that accords with local practices while understanding and respecting the commercial customs, religion, culture, and values in the countries where we do business. Next, we will help address environmental and energy issues and realize a recycling-based society by working to create renewable energy and to improve the local waste treatment environment through the supply of biomass boilers such as bagasse-ﬁred boilers and waste incineration plants that incorporate exceptional technologies. Ryoji Tani Executive Manager, Construction Center Finally, we will strengthen our solutions-based sales initiatives, which are conceived to offer high added value based The current Medium-Term Management Plan calls on us to reliably fulﬁll a large order backlog and to accommodate a on customer needs. robust ﬂow of new projects, signaling an environment in which we are fortunate to be able to do business. At the same We will fulﬁll our social responsibility by contributing to the sustained development of other countries through these time, that environment raises concerns about waning job enthusiasm due to a heavy workload, the unfortunate initiatives. occurrence of occupational accidents, and a tendency for human resources training measures to take a back seat to other priorities since most projects involve long lead times. Based on these facts, I see our most signiﬁcant issue as the need to ensure employee health and safety, to facilitate enthusiasm, and to build solid operational structures that will position us to take the next step once the current plan is complete. As we work to overcome these challenges, veterans and newcomers alike will do well to remember and draw encouragement from one of the motivations that drove them to join Takuma in the ﬁrst place: love for a job involving protecting the environment and utilizing energy effectively. 13 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 14 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan ‒ An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 12th Medium-Term Management Plan and CSR Topics 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Group Companies This page introduces the views of members of our Audit & Supervisory Committee on the policies, priority measures, and other provisions of the current Medium-Term Management Plan, including with regard to initiatives to increase the Groupʼs corporate value and their expectations and wishes for the future. Masahiko Izumi, President and Representative Director Reﬂecting our philosophy of “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing,” we strive to contribute to society Audit & Supervisory Committee Members through corporate activities in the package boiler segment of the market, and we consider our corporate activities themselves to be CSR activities. The current Medium-Term Management Plan sets forth two basic goals in order to increase corporate value: increasing Yasushi Enomoto Audit & Supervisory Committee Member (Director) the size of the company and developing a more advanced level of quality. To achieve these goals, we will develop and Having identiﬁed maintaining its role of being indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the ﬁeld of supply safe, high-quality products and services; increase customer and business partner satisfaction; and improve renewable energy utilization and environmental protection as its corporate vision, Takuma has contributed to employee satisfaction in the process while boosting organizational trust. If our products and services enter into even environmental protection by realizing a diverse range of customer needs and by improving technology through research more widespread use in society, our contribution in the environmental and energy sectors will grow, helping to increase and development. We also work to protect the environment via a range of activities that includes limiting energy our corporate value. consumption and waste emissions and community service programs. Going forward, we will fulﬁll our CSR by striving to serve as a high-value company for all stakeholders through In addition, we are achieving steady results through ongoing initiatives to promote compliance management. corporate activities such as these. Going forward, we believe that cultivating increased awareness of global needs as our overseas businesses develop, for example in the form of ESG investment and the UNʼs Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and bringing those priorities to bear in our businesses will help us contribute to society while increasing our corporate value. Kazunori Tsuji, President With 68 ofﬁces, worksites, and other facilities around Japan, we operate and manage facilities under contract. In recent years, the number of DBO and O&M facilities that we serve in partnership with Takuma Co., Ltd., is increasing, and the Hiromichi Satake Audit & Supervisory Committee Member (Outside Director) manner in which we operate those facilities is changing from the past. The Takuma Group built structures to deliver results on a stable basis through the previous 11th Medium-Term However, our mission of providing safety and stability to customers at each facility we manage and of supervising the Management Plan. Under the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, I expect to see the company strengthen risk operations with which we are entrusted in a way that inspires customersʼ peace of mind has not changed. To fulﬁll that management and develop into an organization that is even more resistant to changes in the business environment. mission, all of our employees must come together to harness the full potential of each facility without accident or disaster We are seeing results from our efforts to contribute to society, and it is desirable that we work to ensure those efforts so that waste products can be treated properly and ever-more-demanding requirements satisﬁed. We will do everything penetrate every aspect of the Groupʼs operations so that they do not lose their viability. Encouraging all employees to we can going forward under the current Medium-Term Management Plan to fulﬁll our companyʼs social responsibility. continuously think about what they should do and how they should act will allow us to increase our corporate value. As an outside director, I will work from an independent, fair perspective to strengthen the Groupʼs management and supervisory functions and to establish CSR management with the goal of precisely understanding stakeholder expectations and increasing stakeholder satisfaction. Syusuke Suzuki, President Our philosophy revolves around helping protect the regional environment by utilizing air-conditioning and sanitary equipment design and installation technologies. Osamu Iwahashi Audit & Supervisory Committee Member (Outside Director) It is widely recognized that overwork is an issue in the construction industry, of which we are a part. We recognize this issue as a life-or-death challenge for our company, and we are working to create an environment in which employees can I have served as an auditor and director (as a member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee) at Takuma for six years, balance their jobs with their private lives, for example by actively participating in the Work-Life Balance campaign led by during which time I have drawn on experience I gained during my involvement with law enforcement policy for many the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. We also continue to run the company in a fair and just manner, with an absolute years. I have pursued auditing and other operations primarily from a corporate governance and compliance perspective, focus on compliance. Going forward, we will strive to increase CSR awareness, for example by offering internal classes and I believe that an emphasis on CSR is an essential part of corporate management. designed to foster employeesʼ understanding of Japanʼs legal system. Takumaʼs Energy from Waste plants and biomass-fueled power plants make up its core businesses, and the company is fortunate in that these businesses themselves help it fulﬁll its corporate social responsibility. In addition, the company has actively pursued a broad array of CSR activities, including through solar power installations, research into how waste gas and heat can be used in crop cultivation, and participation in, and contribution to, regional activities. Going forward, Iʼm conﬁdent that Takuma will be able to effectively pursue activities that achieve the aims of CSR in its primary businesses and associated operations. Yoshiki Kita, PRESIDENT For half a century, we have created highly clean environments for production processes in the semiconductor and electronic precision fabrication industries, and we have made broad contributions to society by making possible improvements in rational production that have helped maintain rich and safe lifestyles while solving environmental and Minoru Murata Audit & Supervisory Committee Member (Outside Director) energy issues by supplying clean equipment and systems. At the same time, we believe that efforts to maintain and promote compliance provide a crucial basis for the operation of our businesses, and going forward, we will strive on an We contribute to society by creating value through maintenance of social infrastructure that underpins human ongoing basis to enhance compliance by assessing our operations from an ESG standpoint. lifestyles and of industrial equipment. The products and services that are the ultimate result of our corporate activities In addition, we will work to help achieve the SDGs through cooperation, contribution, and partnership involving live up to the standards set by societyʼs expectations, and we have built a track record of success through our efforts to customers and other stakeholders, both in Japan and overseas. increase social satisfaction. At the same time, an increasingly diverse society demands a more sophisticated type of value, and attention now encompasses not only deliverables, but also the processes that create them (i.e., production processes). To take CSR to the next level, it will be necessary to increase the satisfaction of the people that participate in the processes that give rise to deliverables. It will be important to reduce environmental impacts in manufacturing and construction processes, and to improve worker safety and the work environment. Going forward, I believe that taking into consideration stakeholders such as employees and local residents will help us pursue an even higher level of CSR. 15 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 16 Corporate Information Company Outline Business Summary Name: Head ofﬁce location: TAKUMA CO., LTD. 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Environmental and energy business TEL +81-6-6483-2609 FAX +81-6-6483-2751 (operator) Corporate Representative Director: Takaaki Kato, President and CEO ■ Municipal solid waste treatment plants ■ Industrial waste treatment plants Information Established: June 10, 1938 We support the realization of a recycling-oriented society Using advanced incineration technologies, we can even Capital: JPY 13,367,457,968 (as of March 31, 2018) using advanced waste treatment technologies that meet treat toxic substances suitably and we are supporting the Main business areas: The design, construction and superintendence of a wide variety of boilers, plant machinery, the needs of local communities. environmental protection efforts of industry. pollution prevention plants, environmental equipment plants, and heating and cooling equipment ● Energy from Waste plant ● Waste to solid fuel conversion and feed-water / drainage sanitation equipment and facilities ● Pyrolysis gasiﬁcation and plant The design, construction and superintendence of civil, architecture and other works melting plant ● Transition and intermediate ● Industrial waste treatment plant Number of employees (non-consolidated): 837 (as of March 31, 2018) ● Resource recycling and processing plant Number of employees (consolidated): 3,609 (as of March 31, 2018) collection plant ● Raw fuel (biogas) recovery plant ● Bulky garbage crushing plant ● Various types of pollution ● Incineration ash and ﬂy prevention equipment Permits and registrations ash melting plant ● Head Ofﬁce, branch ofﬁces and other business ofﬁces Construction license (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism license, Special 27-6129, Special 29-6129) Construction consultant registration (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism registration, Construction 26-10202) Industrial waste treatment plant Plant that generates power from First-class architect ofﬁce registration (01A02903) industrial waste and provides ISO 9001 quality management system certiﬁcation Energy from Waste plant Bulky garbage crushing plant heat to a plantation Harima Factory ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ■ Energy plants ■ Water treatment plants ● ISO 9001 quality management system certiﬁcation JQA-1952 JQA-EM0313 ISO 14001 environmental management systems certiﬁcation ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Takumaʼs core technologies are utilized in various types of We are working to purify wastewater with a holistic Manufacture of thermal equipment for power generation (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) certiﬁcation certiﬁcation boilers, starting with biomass boilers, as well as total perspective through a “dialogue with water.” Permission to manufacture boilers and pressure vessels, permission to manufacture cranes Head Oﬃce, Osaka Oﬃce, Harima Factory Tokyo Branch, Chubu Branch, systems. ● Sewage and wastewater ● Sewage sludge-fueled power (Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) Kyushu Branch, Hokkaido Branch ● Biomass boiler ● Waste heat boiler treatment plant plant Manufacture of speciﬁc high-pressure gas facilities (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) and Harima Factory ● Fossil fuel boiler ● Power plant ● Various types of advanced ● Plant to process water that Manufacture of refrigerators (Governor of Hyogo Prefecture) sewage treatment plant inﬁltrates ﬁnal disposal sites ● Sludge treatment plant Corporate structure (as of June 27, 2018) Balance sheet overview and net sales composition ratios ■ Balance sheet overview Internal Audit Dept. Net sales Ordinary proﬁt Compliance & CSR Promotion Div. (Million JPY) [Consolidated] (Million JPY) 120,000 113,088 116,30911,605 118,19810,669 12,000 Biomass power generation boiler Waste heat boiler Upﬂow moving-bed ﬁltration Sewage sludge-fueled power plant Corporate Service Div. system 9,646 80,000 8,000 Package boiler Equipment and systems business Corp. Planning & Administration Div. Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers 40,000 4,000 Corporate Marketing Group Board of Directors President Administration Div. 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 ■ General-purpose boilers ■ Air-conditioning equipment and clean systems As the convergence of Takumaʼs combustion technologies, We provide comfortable, clean environments to customers Environmental Plant Div. (Million JPY) [Non-consolidated] (Million JPY) Audit & Supervisory Committee our boilers are a reliable brand that has earned the support in the semiconductor industry as well as many locations 120,000 12,000 Energy Plant Div. of a wide range of industries. such as universities, research institutions, and hospitals. 8,937 Audit & Supervisory Committeeʼs Ofﬁce 80,000 72,445 7,406 73,327 71,479 7,891 8,000 ● Building equipment ● Clean room International Operations Div. ● Once-through boiler (Eqos, Super Eqos) ● Air-conditioning equipment ● Clean devices ● Vacuum-type water heater (Vacotin heater) 40,000 4,000 ● Cleaning and drying devices ● Chemical ﬁlters Engineering Group ● Package water-tube boiler 0 0 ● Smoke tube boiler (RE boiler) Management Center 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ● Heat-transfer oil boiler (thermoheater) ● Radiation heating equipment (strip heater) Technology Center ■ Net sales composition ratios(FY2017) 6.5% ● Various equipment for ships Project Center Domestic Environment and Energy Engineering Center 14.6% Overseas Environment and Energy 2.9% Construction Center Package Boiler 76.0% Equipment and System Business Harima Factory Vacotin heater Thermoheater Super Eqos RE boiler Chemical ﬁlters Clean oven Clean booths Note: These products are handled by Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., which is one of our group companies. 17 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 18 History Sales (Hundreds of Founder Tsunekichi Takuma established our philosophy millions JPY) of “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing.” 1,500 The goal of becoming a technologically driven company FY2017 Sales based on that belief has been the basis of Takumaʼs JPY 118.1 History operations throughout its 80 years of history. billion 1912 to 1950 1951 to 1971 Tsunekichi began shipping Takuma boilers in Takuma established itself as a manufacturer not 1912, and in 1938 he founded Takuma Boiler only of boilers, but also environmental and 1,000 Manufacturing Co., Ltd., with the philosophy sanitary equipment, for example by developing of “Service to the nation through boiler waste heat recovery boilers that use waste heat manufacturing.” The corporate stance and from manufacturing plants, developing modern philosophy that form the foundation of Takuma technology for incinerating solid waste, and developed during this period. entering the water treatment market. 1972 to 1999 2000 and beyond In 1972, the company changed its name to Takuma continues to provide technology for Takuma Co., Ltd., which remains its name to this utilizing and rendering harmless a variety of day. During this period, Takuma worked to waste products and biomass energy sources develop technologies to accommodate a variety through its businesses in the renewable energy 500 of customer needs, including demand for energy and environmental protection ﬁelds. The savings in industry, the growing volume and company has established local subsidiaries diversity of municipal solid waste, and the need overseas and continues to bring its technologies for improvements in water quality by means of to customers not only in Japan, but also water treatment equipment. worldwide, particularly in Asia. 1938 Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd. founded *Consolidated accounting introduced in FY1990 1938 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2017 (FY) The ﬁrst “Takuma Amagasaki Head Takumaʼs ﬁrst “Environmental Energy from Waste Company listed on the Osaka and Company renamed 1912 boiler” introduced by 1949 1972 1995 Ofﬁce Building 2004 Report” issued 2010 plant delivered in Tokyo stock exchanges Takuma Co., Ltd. our founder, Tsunekichi completed The “Takuma Group Code of Europe (U.K.) Takuma Conduct” instituted Lakeside EfW Plant Amagasaki Head Ofﬁce Building Tsunekichi Takuma Tsunekichi Takuma Bulk production began on Takuma Hanyokikai Co., Ltd., a Feed-in tariff (FIT) program 2012 Head Ofﬁce moved to subsidiary involved in the 1930 commended as one of the ten 1953 Osakaʼs Kita-ku District 1975 “vacotin heater,” the 1997 ISO9001 certiﬁcation obtained 2005 2012年 launched to facilitate ﬁxed-cost great inventors of Japan worldʼs ﬁrst vacuum-type manufacture and sale of small purchases of renewable energy during the Meiji and Taisho hot water heater boilers, and Ebara Boiler Co., Ltd. periods (1868‒1926) merged and renamed Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. Former head ofﬁce (Dojimahama) Vacotin heater Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd. founded Business expanded into the Japanʼs largest Energy from Waste The “Takuma Environmental Policy” Operation of the Company Motto instituted: environmental facility sectors, The ﬁrst overseas delivery of a waste 1938 1958 1986 treatment facility completed 1998 plant delivered 2005 instituted 2013 Takuma Solar Power “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing” including waste incineration and (Tokyo Shinkoto Waste Treatment The “Personal Information Plant began water treatment plants Plant Capacity: 1,800 tons per day) Protection Policy” instituted Takuma Solar Power Plant Amagasaki Factory The “Compliance Declaration” Japanʼs ﬁrst waste New Company Motto instituted: Operation began at ISO14001 certiﬁcation obtained for instituted Order received for a 50,000 kW biomass 1942 Harima Factory 1963 incineration plant 1992 “Value Technology, Value People, 1999 our Harima Factory 2006 The “Takuma Group Ethics Charter” 2017 power plant (FIT-approved facility) delivered Value the Earth” instituted Sewerage treatment Takuma participated in the UN Global facility delivered Japanʼs ﬁrst waste Compact incineration plant Harima Factory under construction Bagasse-ﬁred boiler, the ﬁrst Waste Management and Public 1970 1993 1999 Act on Special Measures against 1949 product of its kind in the industry, 1970年 Cleansing Act and Water Pollution 1993年 Basic Environment Act enacted 1999年 Dioxins enacted 2007 Takumaʼs ﬁrst “CSR Report” issued Control Act enacted Biomass Power Plant exported 19 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 20 The Takuma Group Network ■ Takumaʼs business ofﬁces ■ Overseas group companies 1 Head Ofﬁce 6 Chubu Branch 1 Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. (as of June 27, 2018) 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo Daitokai Bldg., 3-22-8, Meieki, Nakamura-ku, Maintenance of waste treatment and other facilities 660-0806, Japan Nagoya, Aichi 450-0002, Japan 7F., No. 16, Lane 35, Jihu Rd., Neihu District, Taipei TEL +81-6-6483-2609 FAX +81-6-6483-2751 TEL +81-52-571-5211 FAX +81-52-581-3005 114-92, Taiwan Takumaʼs business ofﬁces Overseas group companies Group companies in Japan 2 Osaka Ofﬁce 7 Kyushu Branch TEL +886-2-2659-7137 FAX +886-2-2656-0584 Hanahara 6th Bldg., 6-8-31 Nishinakajima, Yakuin Business Garden, 1-1-1 Yakuin, Chuo-ku, 2 Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. Yodogawa-ku, Osaka 532-0011, Japan Fukuoka 810-0022, Japan Sale of energy and environment-related plants, TEL +81-6-4805-7600 FAX +81-6-4805-7601 TEL +81-92-717-2828 FAX +81-92-717-2830 sales of parts for the same plants and after-sales 3 Tokyo Branch 8 Okinawa Branch service Nomura Higashi-nihonbashi Bldg., 1-1-7 Commons Bldg., 1-11-12 Mashiki, Ginowan, 77/53 Sinn Sathorn Tower, 15th Floor, Higashinihonbashi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-0004, Okinawa 901-2224, Japan Krungdhonburi Road, Klongtonsai, Klongsarn, Japan TEL +81-98-898-6650 FAX +81-98-898-6657 Bangkok 10600, Thailand TEL +81-3-5822-7800 FAX +81-3-5822-7888 9 Harima Factory TEL +66-2438-5616 FAX +66-2440-0114 4 Hokkaido Branch 1-2-1 Shinhama, Arai-cho, Takasago, Hyogo Daigo Bldg., 5-11, Ohdori Nishi, Chuo-ku, Sapporo, 676-8540, Japan Hokkaido 060-0042, Japan TEL +81-79-443-6511 FAX +81-79-443-6599 TEL +81-11-221-4106 FAX +81-11-241-0523 10 Taipei Branch The Takuma 10 1 5 Tohoku Branch 7F., No.16, Lane 35, Jihu Rd., Neihu District, Taipei NMF Sendai Aoba-dori Bldg., 2-1-2 Ichibancho, 114-92, Taiwan Group Network Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi 980-0811, Japan TEL +886-2-8752-3838 FAX +886-2-2656-0584 TEL +81-22-222-3042 FAX +81-22-225-6759 2 ■ Group companies in Japan 1 Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. 10 Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. 20 Hokutan High Trust Co., Ltd. Manufacture and sale of a wide range of boilers and Analyzing and measurement for environment-related issues, Operation and maintenance management of a related equipment including water quality, exhaust gas and soil pollution municipal solid waste treatment facilities Shirokanedai Bldg., 3-2-10 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, 1-2-1 Shinhama, Arai-cho, Takasago, Hyogo 676-0008, Japan 943 Booka, Takeno-machi, Toyooka, Hyogo Tokyo 108-0071, Japan TEL +81-79-443-6508 FAX +81-79-443-6510 669-6331, Japan TEL +81-3-6408-8251 FAX +81-3-6408-8278 http://www.k-soltech.co.jp TEL +81-796-21-9111 FAX +81-796-21-9112 http://www.n-thermo.co.jp 11 Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. http://hokutan-ht.com 2 Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. Maintenance of a wide variety of boilers and 21 Suwako High Trust Co., Ltd. Maintenance, management and operation of waste treatment environmental facilities Operation and maintenance management of a facilities, water treatment facilities and other facilities, as well 2-2-27 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan municipal solid waste treatment facilities as the design, installation and management of various types TEL +81-6-6488-8434 FAX +81-6-6488-0300 4769-14 Uchiyama, Okaya, Nagano 394-0055, Japan of boilers, environmental equipment and other equipment http://www.takuma-ps.com TEL +81-266-78-1590 FAX +81-266-78-1591 10th Chuo Bldg., 1-5-6 Nihonbashi-honcho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 12 Campo Recycle Plaza Co., Ltd. http://www.suwako-ht.jp 103-0023, Japan Municipal solid waste and industrial waste 22 Imabari High Trust Co., Ltd. TEL +81-3-3231-2911 FAX +81-3-3231-2917 treatment services Operation and maintenance management of a http://www.takumatechnos.co.jp 1 Takayanishitani, Sonobe-cho, Nantan, Kyoto 622-0032, Japan municipal solid waste treatment facilities 3 Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. TEL +81-771-68-3636 FAX +81-771-68-3639 394 Machiyakou, Imabari, Ehime 799-1514, Japan Operation and maintenance of sewage treatment facilities http://www.c-rp.co.jp TEL +81-898-35-5181 FAX +81-898-35-5182 Daigo Bldg., 5-11, Ohdori Nishi, Chuo-ku, Sapporo, 13 Nagaizumi High Trust Co., Ltd. http://bariclean.jp Hokkaido 060-0042, Japan Facility upgrading, operation and maintenance of 23 Energy Mate Co., Ltd. TEL +81-11-221-8398 FAX +81-11-221-8542 municipal solid waste ﬁnal disposal sites Sale of cogeneration systems and systems for the 25 4 Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. 374-12 Higashino, Nagaizumi-cho, Suntou-gun, generation equipment of the same and total service Operation and maintenance of waste treatment facilities Shizuoka 411-0931, Japan for onsite energy systems for consumer use Daigo Bldg., 5-11, Ohdori Nishi, Chuo-ku, Sapporo, TEL +81-55-989-2268 FAX +81-55-987-9935 Midosuji Daiwa Bldg., 3-6-8 Kyutaromachi, 5 26 16 2 Hokkaido 060-0042, Japan http://www.nagaizumi-ht.jp Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-0056, Japan TEL +81-11-221-4128 FAX +81-11-221-1030 14 Fujisawa High Trust Co., Ltd. TEL +81-6-6241-6200 FAX +81-6-6241-6210 9 8 5 Sun Plant Co., Ltd. Operation and maintenance management of http://www.energy-mate.co.jp 1 Design, construction and superintendence of municipal solid waste treatment facilities 24 Kashihara High Trust Co., Ltd. 14 28 air-conditioning equipment, feed-water/drainage 2168 Ishikawa, Fujisawa, Kanagawa 252-0815, Japan Operation and maintenance management of municipal 13 sanitation equipment, and electrical equipment TEL +81-466-45-5411 FAX +81-466-45-5454 solid waste treatment facilities 4 3 4 Nomura Higashi-nihonbashi Bldg., 1-1-7 15 Iwate-Kenpoku Clean Co., Ltd. 1038-2 Kawanishi-cho, Kashihara, Nara 634-0826, Japan 8 Higashinihonbashi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-0004, Japan Municipal solid and industrial waste treatment services TEL +81-744-26-6227 FAX +81-744-26-6228 TEL +81-3-5825-0921 FAX +81-3-5825-1631 48-34, Dai 20 Chiwari, Esashika, Kunohe-mura, 25 Tochigi High Trust Co., Ltd. http://www.sunplant.co.jp Kunohe-gun, Iwate 028-6505, Japan Industrial waste treatment services 6 Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. TEL +81-195-42-4085 FAX +81-195-42-4550 18-3 Kinugaoka, Moka, Tochigi 321-4367, Japan 15 Design of environmental equipment plants and energy plants http://www.iwate2cln.co.jp TEL +81-285-83-3966 FAX +81-285-83-6500 Takuma Bldg., 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, 16 Hitachinaka-Tokai High Trust Co., Ltd. http://www.t-hitrust.co.jp Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Operation and maintenance management of 26 Katsuta Co., Ltd. 5 20 TEL +81-6-6487-4820 FAX +81-6-6487-4829 municipal solid waste treatment facilities Industrial waste and municipal solid waste http://www.takuma-eng.co.jp 103-2 Shinkocho, Hitachinaka, Ibaraki 312-0005, Japan treatment services 29 7 Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. TEL +81-29-265-5371 FAX +81-29-265-5372 1968-2 Koya, Hitachinaka, Ibaraki 312-0002, Japan 7 Design of electrical instrumentation equipment, including http://hitachinaka-tokai-ht.com TEL +81-29-270-3711 FAX +81-29-270-3712 environmental equipment plants and energy plants 17 Anan High Trust Co., Ltd. http://www.eco-katsuta.com 21 27 R.B.N. Co., Ltd. Takuma Bldg., 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Operation and maintenance management of 3 19 6 Hyogo 660-0806, Japan municipal solid waste treatment facilities Municipal solid waste, including waste home 9 10 12 TEL +81-6-6487-4830 FAX +81-6-6487-4839 1-5 Kokatsu, Tachibana-cho, Anan, Tokushima appliances and ofﬁce automation equipment, and 22 http://www.takuma-sc.co.jp 779-1631, Japan industrial waste treatment services 27 8 Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. TEL +81-884-49-5823 FAX +81-884-49-5824 3059-20 Nakajima, Shikama-ku, Himeji, Hyogo Manufacture and sale of clean equipment, cleaning http://www.ecopark-anan.com 672-8035, Japan 2 equipment, chemical ﬁlters, clean rooms, drying 18 Takuma Energy Co., Ltd. TEL +81-79-243-1200 FAX +81-79-243-1202 1 6 7 11 18 equipment and thermal chambers Power retail business http://rbn.jp 23 3-12-16 Iwadokita, Komae, Tokyo 201-0004, Japan Takuma Bldg., 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, 28 Ichihara New Energy Co., Ltd. 24 TEL +81-3-3488-1111 FAX +81-3-3488-1118 Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Industrial and municipal solid waste treatment services http://www.dan-net.com TEL +81-6-6487-4870 FAX +81-6-6483-2794 733 Mandano, Ichihara, Chiba 290-0549, Japan 9 Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. 19 Kurume High Trust Co., Ltd. TEL +81-436-50-8300 FAX +81-436-50-8400 Design, construction and superintendence of waste Operation and maintenance management of a http://www.ichihara-new.com treatment facilities, mechanical equipment of sewage municipal solid waste treatment facilities 29 Ecos Yonezawa Co., Ltd. treatment facilities, and boiler plants for general industries 2225 Hacchojima, Miyanojin-machi, Kurume, Final disposal of industrial waste 17 5-1-38 Yurigahara, Kita-ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido Fukuoka 839-0805, Japan 7028-1 Yanazawa, Yonezawa, Yamagata 992-0077, Japan 002-8081, Japan TEL +81-942-27-7490 FAX +81-942-27-7491 TEL +81-238-39-4050 FAX +81-238-39-4051 TEL +81-11-770-2811 FAX +81-11-770-2822 http://www.kurume-ht.com http://www.ecos-y.co.jp 21 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 22 Feature Childhood and youth The King of Boilers Tsunekichi was born on February 8, 1872, in the village of Omakoto in the Tohaku district of Tottori Prefecture (the present-day town of Hokuei in the Tohaku district). Skilled with his hands and an avid student from his youngest days, Tsunekichi diligently studied Tsunekichi Takuma and His Company classical Chinese under his father, who ran a small private school. He had an older brother named Manzo and an older sister named Yone. Having heard about steam-powered vehicles and other urban wonders from his brother Manzo, who was an elementary school teacher in Kyoto, the young Tsunekichi resolved to travel to the city. After convincing his father and brother to let him go to Kyoto at age 14, Tsunekichi This year marks 80 years since Tsunekichi Takuma founded Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd. initially worked for a physician, but he changed his mind and decided to become a merchant around age 20. He entered the lumber trade at age 31 in 1903, but the The technological philosophy on the basis of which developed the ﬁrst boiler to be produced in Japan Russo-Japanese War broke out in 1904, precipitating a rapid fall in the price of lumber and forcing him out of business. Already responsible for his wife and children, Tsunekichi tried has withstood the test of time, and it is being carried on by the company s engineers today. to reestablish himself in Korea with the aid of a friend when the war ended, but sad news about the death of his wife at the time, Kameko, awaited him when he returned to Japan Feature: The This feature takes advantage of this milestone year to introduce the roller-coaster life of the after planning his business in Korea. company s founder in order to make his story more familiar to readers. King of Boilers Meeting his wife Kumako and encountering a boiler invention The heartbroken Tsunekichi remarried Kumako Harimura, who found herself in the same circumstances as Tsunekichi, when he was 35. Kumako supported Tsunekichiʼs efforts at invention despite the householdʼs limited means; without her help, the Takuma boiler would probably never have come to be. The supportive wife is shown in proﬁle on a bust of Tsunekichi that was made after he achieved success. Yet another encounter awaited Tsunekichi after he remarried Kumako and relaunched his lumber trading business: Yasaburo Okamoto, who would later push him down the path toward inventing a boiler. Yasaburo was working to invent a boiler as a source of power to operate lumbermill machinery. Tsunekichi was enthralled when he heard about the proposed invention and invested in the Okamoto boiler. The project, launched around the time that Tsunekichi was 38 years Tsunekichi and his wife, Kumako A bust of Tsunekichi with his wife Kumako shown old, failed, leaving Tsunekichi and his wife with an in proﬁle on the side enormous debt. “The King of Boilers”: Tsunekichi Takuma “If you put your mind to it, you can do it”: A eureka moment on the Genkai Sea Tsunekichi Takuma, the founder of Takuma, was also an inventor who invented the Takuma boiler, the ﬁrst water Drowning in debt from his failed business and with his family on the verge of breaking up, Tsunekichi boarded a ship with tube-type boiler to be produced entirely in Japan. However, the intention of turning once more to his Korean friend. One night on the ship as it crossed the Genkai Sea, Tsunekichi Tsunekichi didnʼt embark on his quest to invent the boiler became overcome by the distressed condition in which he and his family found themselves and contemplated throwing until around the time he turned 40. Before this layperson, himself into the sea. who didnʼt even understand the terminology in a Just before doing so, he had an experience that he would later describe as a “revelation from heaven.” In that moment, he specialized text on boilers, would become known as “the had an epiphany concerning the driving force behind the love of invention that he had cultivated throughout his life, realizing king of boilers,” before he would earn a reputation as one of that communicating the fruits of his work to the world and contributing to human progress were the heaven-sent mission of Japanʼs 10 great inventors of the Meiji and Taisho periods, humanity and simultaneously the greatest joy that one could have, and resolving that if he put his mind to the task, he would before he would found Takuma, he would grapple with a be successful. series of difﬁculties that he was only able to overcome Following his return to Japan, Tsunekichi repaid the loan from his failed business, and in 1912, he overcame the opposition through a long process of trial and error. of those around him to start work on inventing his own boiler at the age of 40. 23 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 24 “Boilers are living things”: Tsunekichiʼs boiler research Tsunekichiʼs second challenge: From the Takuma boiler to the Tsunekichi boiler Praise for the Takuma boiler grew, and production value approached 10 million yen, unadjusted for inﬂation. Buoyed by brisk sales of his ﬁrst invention, Tsunekichi founded Tsunekichi Takuma Institute at his home in June 1936 and set out inventing a new boiler. He dubbed the premium, compact boiler that resulted from his effort the Tsunekichi boiler. Easy to operate, faster-starting than other boilers of the time with the same steam volume, and capable of running on about 30% less fuel, the new design earned broad praise. Faced with the need to put in place a system capable of producing the boiler, Tsunekichi incorporated his institute as a joint-stock company in July 1937, creating the Takuma Institute Co., Ltd. The groundwork for the boiler-inventing business that Tsunekichi had long idealized had ﬁnally been laid. As a result of the Marco Polo Bridge Incident on July 7, 1937, Japan abruptly found itself embroiled in the Sino-Japanese War. As the war expanded, the Takuma Institute, which had been founded to carry out research into boilers, became caught up in wartime production. Tsunekichi, who knew nothing about boilers, bought several specialized books on the subject and set about developing his own design while drawing inspiration from designs that were famous overseas at the time, including Cornish boilers and Feature: The Babcock boilers. Despite a sustained effort that was supported by Kumako, the process did not go as he had hoped. But he didnʼt give up, instead retreating from prying eyes to Mt. Takatori in the city of Kobe in Hyogo Prefecture, where he immersed himself in his research and pursued a series of hunches: that boilers were living things; that they used heat from coal to King of Boilers convert water into steam; that the circulation of boiler water in order to create steam from water was instrumental to the life of the boiler; that the movement of boiler water was analogous to the circulation of blood in the human body; and that boilers to date did not adequately provide the functionality of the human heart, because the part corresponding to the arteries was incomplete. Tsunekichi tried to conduct experiments involving the circulation of boiler water, but he was unable to build a model due to the difﬁculty of obtaining funding. Instead, he carried out experiments using a model he had made out of implements he found in his kitchen, including pots, glass sake utensils, and a device used to toast sesame seeds. In the course of doing so, he established a theory of boiler water circulation. The water collector, which was the heart of the boiler, and the downcomer tubes, which were its arteries, together comprised the distinguishing characteristics of the Takuma boiler and were inventions A band performs to accompany the ﬁrst shipment Schematic drawing of the Tsunekichi Model A boiler that were unknown in the water tube-type boilers of the day. In this way, Tsunekichi patented the Takuma boiler in 1913 and of the Tsunekichi Model A boiler. set out to found a company so that he could supply his invention to the world. The history of Tsunekichi and Takuma Establishment of Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., and adoption of the company motto In April 1914, Tsunekichi exhibited his Takuma boiler at the 2nd Invention Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., the forerunner of todayʼs Takuma, was founded in the city of Amagasaki in Hyogo Expo in Osaka, where he won the gold prize. It was the ﬁrst time for the Prefecture in June 1938 to boost the instituteʼs production capacity. The new company absorbed the Takuma Institute that exceptional nature of the invention to be recognized in a public setting, December. Tsunekichi served as the companyʼs ﬁrst president and formulated its motto of “Service to the nation through boiler prompting inquiries from all quarters as the inventor began work to manufacturing.” Founded on the idea of contributing to society and the environment through the manufacture of boilers, the commercialize his product. philosophy captures the dedication of Tsunekichi, who poured his heart and soul into inventing the ﬁrst water tube-type boiler Eager to capitalize on the newfound opportunity, Tsunekichi enlisted the to be produced in Japan, and it continues to serve as the foundation of Takuma and the Takuma Groupʼs management support of Dr. Masao Kamo of Tokyo Imperial University and signed a sales philosophy today. contract with Takada Shokai that November, prompting sales to grow Takuma Steam Power Construction Co., Ltd., was founded in March 1939 to install and operate boilers, and the companyʼs smoothly. The following year, he established Takuma Boiler Company to Tokyo Ofﬁce was spun off in September 1941 to form Tokyo Steam Power Construction Co., Ltd., (todayʼs SUNPLANT Co., protect his patent rights. Ltd.). The result was a three-part business that added installation to boiler research and manufacturing. The superiority of the Takuma boiler was proven in a capacity test carried out by Kyoto Imperial University in 1919, pitting the design against the Babcock sectional boiler, a design from the Babcock & Wilcox Company in England that had earned worldwide renown. Results showed that the Takuma design bested its British counterpart in terms of both steam volume and thermal efﬁciency. The company began selling Takuma boilers in Manchuria in 1924 and in Taiwan in 1926. At the time, sugar reﬁneries in Taiwan were looking for a high-efﬁciency boiler that burned bagasse (a ﬁbrous product left over after sugarcane is pressed). When performance tests carried out by sugar reﬁneries in Taiwan and other sugar plants made it clear that Takuma boilers excelled at this task, the company experienced a surge of inquiries. Between 1930 and 1932, it delivered dozens of boilers to the market. In November 1928, Tsunekichi was awarded the Fifth Class Order of the Sacred Treasure by Emperor Hirohito in recognition of his contribution to new industry. In addition, he was named as one of the Meiji and Taisho periodsʼ 10 greatest Japanese inventors in December 1930. He was 58 years old at the time. A share of Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., The company emblem, whose design stock at the time the company was founded incorporates Takumaʼs three-part business 25 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 26 Tsunekichiʼs later years As they manufacture boilers to deliver to Takumaʼs plant under a rigorous quality control system, veteran employees and young workers at the Harima Plant work together to master and pass on technologies in accordance with the same philosophy that has guided us since our founding. A sesame-toasting device used in boiler water circulation Order of the Sacred Treasure, Gold Rays experiments along with a corresponding sketch with Rosette (junior ﬁfth rank) Tsunekichi worked hard as the president of Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., until he resigned from the position in May 1941 at the age of 69 due in part to his advancing age. He gave the post to Yoshisaburo Fujita, with whom he had shared many joys and sorrows since before the founding of the company, and became chairman, in which capacity he watched over Feature: The King of Boilers the company during the chaos of World War II and its aftermath. He continued in that role after the death of his wife Kumako at age 82 in March 1947 until passing away at age 81 on December 22, 1953. On January 14, 1954, one month after his death, Tsunekichi was posthumously awarded the Order of the Sacred Treasure, Gold Rays with Rosette, for his contributions to the development of Japanese industry through his boiler business. The company still has the award itself along with the sesame seed toaster and sketches he used in his experiments with boiler water circulation and a coat worn by his wife, treasured artifacts of its history. Sources Passing on boiler manufacturing technology and dedication at the Harima Plant ● Autobiography of Tsunekichi Takuma: From His Personal Background to the Takuma Boiler (2005), Takuma Co., Ltd. Fifty Years of Takuma (1989), Takuma Co., Ltd. Great Inventors of Japan (1943), Michio Matsudaira, Kinnohoshisha Life of an Inventor: The King of Boilers, Tsunekichi Takuma (1940), Tadashi Kawamura, Fujokaisha ■ Afterword Ryo Inaba, General Affairs Department, Corporate Services Division Although the word inventor calls to mind an image of someone who embraces the mission of creation at a young age and then ﬁnds success, Tsunekichi Takuma set out to invent the boiler around the time he turned 40, when he was a lumber merchant. The boiler and incineration technologies into which The Harima Plant at the time of its construction (left), and the same plant today (right) this unusual person poured his heart and soul live on as core technologies of the company today. I hope that this feature has given you a better understanding of the source of Tsunekichi Takumaʼs passion for boilers as the “King of Boilers.” Tsunekichi set out on his path to invention as a layperson who knew almost nothing about boilers and went on to invent the Takuma boiler as well as the Tsunekichi boiler. Boiler manufacturing technology has placed an essential role in facilitating the development of these boilers down to the present day by making it possible to manufacture the boilers invented and designed by Tsunekichi without sacriﬁcing their quality and to deliver them to customers via a rigorous quality control system. No Chiyo Inoue, Manager, General Affairs Department, Corporate Services Division matter how exceptional Tsunekichiʼs designs, it would not be possible to earn customersʼ trust without the ability to actually build them, and the inventorʼs own experience led him to pay close attention to this aspect of the companyʼs operations. What kind of person was Tsunekichi Takuma? He was full of curiosity and the will to study as a child, The Harima Plant, which was established in December 1942 by Tsunekichi to implement his ideal of “Service to the nation and he struggled with a desire to accomplish something with his life as a youth. A reading of his through boiler manufacturing,” continues to operate today as one of Takumaʼs boiler manufacturing facilities. Many of the autobiography reveals an energetic journey over the course of which he developed a strong desire to boiler manufacturing technologies that comprise the companyʼs core competence ﬁnd expression in the skills of the plantʼs control nature while experiencing numerous challenges and failures and making the impossible, engineers, and we consider passing on and further developing those skills to be essential priorities. possible. In the episodes of his life that were not include in the autobiography you can ﬁnd the same sort of human drama that characterizes life during other eras, including times of happiness and sadness through friendship, love, betrayal, trust, disappointment, and hope. It turns out that the portrait of the old man with which employees are familiar points to a passionate spirit who lived 100 years ago. 27 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 28 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 1. Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business (Related SDGs) Completion and acceptance 6 Seeing municipal solid waste treatment plants through to completion After-sales service Takuma is helping protect the global environment through business activities consisting of an integrated approach that extends from the design, manufacture, and procurement of equipment and systems to plant construction. This section 5 We carry out periodic inspections and maintenance after the plant has been introduces the process that goes into bringing a municipal solid waste treatment plant online in one of Takumaʼs core businesses. handed over to the customer in order to 4 Construction and commissioning ensure it will operate safely over the long term. In recent years, an increasing Order receipt During the construction and commissioning number of customers are turning to Procurement and manufacturing stage, we manage the construction process, from civil and construction work to the Takuma for turnkey solutions that extend from the construction of new facilities to 3 Waste treatment plants consist of installation and commissioning of plant multiple pieces of equipment. During the their operation. equipment. This management process, procurement and manufacturing stage, which addresses safety, quality, construction we manufacture this equipment at our process, and cost management, culminates Bidding Harima Plant under a rigorous quality 2 Design control system while carefully choosing in the delivery of the completed facility to er vice sales s the customer. AfterDuring the design stage, we develop a the optimal manufacturers to satisfy the 6 Planning and cost estimation detailed design through a series of projectʼs cost and lead time 1 During the planning and cost estimation meetings with the customer based on the basic plan. Specialists in technologies such requirements. ssioning stage, we plan plant systems (including as combustion, exhaust gas treatment, and Sales nd commi Introduction to equipment ﬂow, speciﬁcations, and layout) a electric instrumentation systems work to satisfy the customerʼs needs. We then t r u c t i o n Cons Takumaʼs During the sales stage, we precisely together to create a speciﬁc solution 5 focus our technological capabilities on those assess the needs of the local government for the customer. n proj ect Businesses peratio needs and offer the proposal along with an that is our customer. Working with our optimally priced quotation. and o nance mainte in-house planning team, we develop a proposal that will satisfy the customer acility Yasushi Kamei ment F and work to earn an order. Waste Treat ari New Operation & Maintenance Services e Imab Design on th Department 2 rked who wo 3 Environmental Plant Division loyees m emp pressions fro ●Im When operating a plant, we provide optimal maintenance and management services that utilize 1 Sales POCSYS, a proprietary system designed to provide comprehensive support for plant operation, maintenance, and management so the plant can live up to its concept of providing safe and stable waste Kenji Fujita treatment. Civil & Architectural Engineering Department Going forward, we will go beyond plant operation, Construction Center maintenance, and management as we work to allow the facility to bring local residents together and to play a disaster prevention role by offering tours, hands-on events, and disaster prevention training Expert staff members manage operations at each construction site on Takashi Kubo together with local residents. In this way, the facility Nobuo Akae a daily basis to ensure that the facility will be completed as outlined in design drawings and in a way that satisﬁes the customer. will protect the community and earn a place in Plant Sales Department 2 Environmental Engineering Department 3 residentsʼ hearts while simultaneously raising Environmental Plant Division As many as more than 500 workers worked on this plantʼs site every environmental awareness, facilitating hands-on Engineering Center day. Daily construction management included safety patrols to ensure learning, and disseminating information. that workers were doing their jobs safely and a variety of inspections to As a salesperson, I visited the site numerous times to verify that the plant was being built in accordance with drawings. ensure that the customer would choose to entrust the My involvement with this project began as we sought to work out the We also actively promoted exchanges with local residents to ensure project to Takuma. The process leading up to our system that Takuma was going to propose after we received the order for they understood the construction process and to give them peace of receipt of the order was a truly challenging one. the project while listening carefully to the customerʼs requests. As an mind, for example by inviting them to tour the site, by cleaning up the This effort had numerous components, including example, we ended up changing equipment that uses waste heat from area around the site, and by participating in community events. precisely assessing the customerʼs needs; proposing a incinerating waste at the facility from a hot water supply system to an I realized that all the hard work was worth it when the customersʼ project that would satisfy those needs; building electricity supply system after a series of discussions with involved representatives expressed their gratitude at the completion ceremony relationships of trust with the customer, local residents, agencies and other stakeholders so that the plant could supply the after construction was ﬁnished. and others; coordinating and negotiating with in-house electricity it generates to nearby facilities. teams and outside entities; negotiating with other After the basic design was ﬁnalized, we were able to design a facility that companies; and dealing with various problems as they earned the customerʼs approval by explaining information including the arose. Our hard work was rewarded and turned into capacity, operating methods, and maintenance methods for all machinery immeasurable pleasure when the customer made the and participating in numerous meetings. following response on a customer satisfaction The process leading up to the transfer of the facility to the customer questionnaire after the project was completed and brought one challenge after another, and Iʼll strive to take advantage of handed over: “I believe that weʼve just seen one of the those experiences so that we can continue to deliver facilities that make best facilities of its kind in Japan completed.” customers happy in the future. 29 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 30 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 1. Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business Main Recent Projects The following are the main plants supplied by Takuma during FY2017. ●New construction ■ Uwajima Public Association Environment Center ■ Imabari City Waste Management Center Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses ● Project name ● Capacity ● Location ● Project name ● Capacity ● Location Regional New Waste Treatment Incineration facility: 120 tons per day Ehime Prefecture Imabari New Waste Treatment Facility Incineration facility: 174 tons per day Ehime Prefecture Facility Construction Project (60 tons per day 2 units) Maintenance and Operation Project (87 tons per day 2 units) (tentative) Recycling facility: 20 tons per 5 hours Recycling facility: 41 tons per 5 hours Power output: 2,500 kW Power output: 3,800 kW ●Primary equipment improvements ■ Hanno City Clean Center ■ Chiyoda Clean Center ● Project name ● Capacity ● Location ● Project name ● Capacity ● Location Hanno Waste Treatment Facility Incineration facility: 80 tons per day Saitama Prefecture Okitama Administrative Association Incineration facility: 255 tons per day Yamagata Prefecture Construction Project (40 tons per day 2 units) Chiyoda Clean Center Incineration Facility (85 tons per day 3 units) Recycling facility: 11.8 tons per 5 hours Primary Equipment Improvement Project Power output: 2,150 kW Power output: 830 kW 31 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 32 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 2. Energy Plant Business (Related SDGs) Completion and acceptance 6 Seeing energy plants through to completion After-sales service This section introduces the process that goes into bringing an energy plant online in one of Takumaʼs core businesses. 5 Once the plant has been handed over to the customer, we carry out periodic inspections and maintenance to 4 Construction and commissioning prevent problems and ensure that the plant will be able to operate in a safe Order receipt During the construction and commissioning and stable manner. Procurement and manufacturing stage, we work to ensure construction proceeds smoothly while carefully managing 3 The procurement and manufacturing safety, quality, and construction processes. stage consists of manufacturing Once the plant has been completed, we carry equipment and systems whose out tests and inspections to assess whether speciﬁcations have been ﬁnalized at our equipment and systems are operating as 2 Design Harima Plant under a rigorous quality control system and of choosing and designed and to speciﬁcations, and then we er vice verify the plantʼs performance. sales s During the design stage, specialists procuring equipment from optimal 6 AfterPlanning and cost estimation from various ﬁelds, including venders in Japan and overseas to satisfy 1 During the planning and cost combustion technology, exhaust gas treatment, and electrical control speciﬁcations and quality requirements. ssioning estimation stage, we plan a plant systems, work together to develop a Sales nd commi Introduction to system (ﬂow, layout, equipment a detailed plan. speciﬁcations, etc.) that will satisfy t r u ct i o n During the sales stage, we gather information about the business being the customerʼs needs and create a Y20 17) 5 Cons Takumaʼs Businesses uring F competitive proposal. planned by the customer, conduct a ve r e d d (deli project series of discussions and studies with e s Inc . Fumitoshi Takahashi logi internal departments, develop a proposal that precisely meets the P owe r Techno customerʼs needs, and work to earn an mass Section 2, n the Bio Design order. e d o Plant Service Department 2 work pl oye es who 3 Energy Plant Division s from em ression ●Imp Although the plant has only been operational for a short time, we as a maintenance team will plan 1 Sales periodic inspections and maintenance and carry them out safely so that the facility can operate in a stable manner over the long term. Weʼll also help increase the customerʼs proﬁtability Naoki Hara by maintaining a high level of performance with Section 1, functional improvements and proposals for preventive Construction Department (Osaka) maintenance measures and other enhancements that Construction Center take advantage of our many years of experience and by eliminating unplanned stoppages. Kyohei Bunya I was involved with this wood chip biomass-fueled power plant Section 1, Hiroyuki Hikita installation project, which is Takumaʼs ﬁrst 2 MW-class power plant, as a site manager from the construction planning stage through to Plant Sales Department 2 Section 2, construction and completion of the facility. We worked especially hard to Energy Plant Division Energy Engineering Department 2 stick to the schedule, ﬁrst, due to the projectʼs short six-month timeline, Project Center which included four months for construction and two months for In this project, we proposed a plant capable of commissioning, and second, because it didnʼt differ from a large power burning and generating electricity from a variety of We reﬁne each plantʼs plan through repeated meetings with our sales plant in terms of the number of pieces of equipment, even though it was fuels harvested from Japanʼs forested mountains in a team and with the customer. While listening to the customerʼs wishes, only a 2 MW-class facility. Thanks to the cooperation of the customer stable manner, reﬂecting our desire to achieve the we offer a proposal that incorporates our expertise and work closely with and other involved parties, we were able to complete the project on customerʼs concept of using all the trees from the sales team to earn an order. Once weʼve received that order, we time. I hope the plant will be able to promote local employment and mountains in order to regenerate and develop the proceed with the plant design process while enlisting the cooperation of help revitalize the forestry industry by using unused lumber. countryʼs forested mountains. I met with the customer the customer, public agencies, equipment manufacturers, and others. and various governmental ofﬁces, visited the planned The completed design drawings are handed off to our construction team, construction site frequently, checked on the status of and once construction is completed, the engineering staff works with the the infrastructure that would be needed for the power commissioning team to carry out inspections, offer instruction on plant plant to operate, and worked to ﬁnalize the overall operation, and perform related tasks. Seeing the customerʼs personnel plan. Going forward, I will offer assistance so that the working at the operating plant following its completion always gives me plant we proposed can operate smoothly and thereby a strong sense of how weʼre contributing to the customerʼs business. contribute to the customerʼs business and to the local community. 33 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 34 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 2. Energy Plant Business Main Recent Projects The following are the main plants supplied by Takuma during FY2017. ●Energy plants ●Industrial waste treatment plants Introduction to Takumaʼs ■ Chugoku Mokuzai Co., Ltd. Head Ofﬁce Plant ■ SGET Green Power Sanjo Godo Kaisha ■ Biomass Power Technologies Inc. ■ Shin nihon kaihatsu Co., Ltd. Businesses ● Project name ● Project name ● Project name ● Project name Chugoku Mokuzai Biomass-fueled Power Plant (Head Ofﬁce) Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Biomass Power Technologies Inc. Matsusaka No. 5 Incinerator Construction Project Construction Project Woody Biomass Power Plant Installation Project ● Capacity ● Capacity ● Capacity Fuel: Wood fuel ● Capacity Treated waste type: Industrial waste Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): Incineration capacity: 93.6 tons per day Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): 28 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 425 C Steam conditions (normal operation): 42 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 460 C Power output: 6,250 kW 11.4 tons per hour 4.2 MPaG 405 C Location Power output: 9,850 kW ● Power output: 1,990 kW ● Location Hyogo Prefecture ● Location Niigata Prefecture ● Location Hiroshima Prefecture Mie Prefecture ■ Pultec Energy Co., Ltd. ■ DS Green Power Generation Yonezawa LLC. ■ Ehime Forest Generation, LLC ■ Kurihalant Co., Ltd. ● Project name ● Project name ● Project name ● Project name No. 5 Biomass Power Generator Installation Project Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Matsuyama Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Daigo Biomass Power Plant Construction Project ● Capacity ● Capacity ● Capacity ● Capacity Fuel: Wood fuel, PKS Fuel: Wood fuel Fuel: Wood fuel, PKS Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): 85 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 480 C 28 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 425 C 48.5 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 480 C 11.4 tons per hour 4.2 MPaG 405 C Power output: 22,100 kW Power output: 6,250 kW Power output: 12,500 kW Power output: 1,990 kW ● Location ● Location ● Location ● Location Hyogo Prefecture Yamagata Prefecture Ehime Prefecture Ibaraki Prefecture 35 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 36 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 3. Water Treatment Plant Business (Related SDGs) More than 50 years have passed since Takuma entered the water treatment business. To date, we have helped improve the Main Recent Projects The following are the main facilities supplied by Takuma during FY2017. water environment by building water treatment facilities. Recently, the industry has been called upon not only to improve the water environment, but to reduce the amount of power that treatment equipment consumes and to create energy from sludge. Energy-saving and energy-creating products play key roles in the industry, particularly at sewage treatment plants, and we remain committed to helping realize sustainable sewage systems. ● Project name Tarumi Sewage Treatment Plant Sand Filter Initial setting pond Reaction tank Final settling pond Sand ﬁlter Machinery and Equipment Project Sewage Pre-processing (Sand Filter Machinery and Equipment Renovation Project) intake equipment Discharge ● Capacity Disinfection Anaerobic tank Anoxic tank Anoxic tank Aerobic tank Aeration panel tank Treatment volume: 7,992 m3 per day Crude sludge Bio Blade Mix Aerobic tank Excess sludge Treatment method: Upﬂow moving-bed ﬁltration Drawn-off sludge (high-speed type) Speciﬁcations: M40 1 unit 3 basins Incinerator ● Location Dehydrated liquid treatment Digester tanks Sludge treatment Hyogo Prefecture Generator Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Return water ■ Homare Sewage Relay Pumping Station Reaction tank facility Saving energy Rapid ﬁltration facility Saving energy ● Project name 【Principal equipment】 【Principal equipment】 Homare Sewage Relay Pump Station Screening Aeration systems Upﬂow moving-bed ﬁltration Equipment Renovation Project Low power agitator (Uniﬂow Sand Filter) (Automatic Screen Renovation Project) (Bio Blade Mix) ● Capacity Type: Back-raked continuous automatic screen Hole Speciﬁcations: 800 (W) 1,300 (D) mm ● Location Hyogo Prefecture Auxiliary blade Primary blade Sludge treatment facility Saving energy Sludge-fueled power generation facility Saving energy Creating energy ■ Kita-Tama No.2 Water Reclamation Center 【Principal equipment】 【Principal equipment】 Generator Rotating drum-type concentrator Step grate stoker furnace ● Project name Sludge sewage sludge power Kita-Tama No.2 Water Reclamation Center Sludge Waste heat Cleaning generation system boiler Concentration Equipment Reconstruction Project nozzle (Sludge Concentrator Delivery) (Step grate stoker furnace and Incoming Sludge sludge innovative step grate stoker Drum screen Capacity transport furnace) Step grate Drying grate ● spiral stoker furnace Type: Rotating drum Combustion grate Speciﬁcations: 50 m3 per hour Dehydrated Burn-out liquid Concentrated grate ● Location sludge Tokyo Prefecture Incineration ash Combustion air fan 37 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 38 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 4. Activities of Our Overseas Business (Related SDGs) Biomass-fueled power plant business in the Southeast Asian market Overseas Energy from Waste plant business The biomass-fueled power generation boiler business in Southeast Asia is an essential part of any discussion of Takumaʼs Waste processing problems have been manifesting themselves in countries around the world recently due to the effects of history. We have delivered more than 370 biomass boilers to customers overseas, and we have an especially extensive track trends such as rapid urbanization, and there have been reports of various adverse effects of burying waste as-is on living record since 1959 of delivering boilers fueled by bagasse (ﬁber remaining after sugarcane is crushed) in Thailand, where we have conditions, including soil pollution and ﬁres, especially in developing nations. Such countries are pursuing initiatives to a local subsidiary. Takuma takes pride in having supported the Thai sugar industry for many years. resolve waste treatment issues, and demand for Energy from Waste plants has been growing with each passing year, seemingly As the feed-in tariff program for renewable energy becomes increasingly well established in various industries, a growing in proportion to the volume of waste being disposed of. Growth in construction of large-scale plants nonetheless remains number of customers in Thailand are looking beyond simply gaining a source of power for plant operation and instead opting to gradual. One cause of this mismatch between demand and construction is likely to be inadequacies in terms of programs, construct boilers with the goal of using 10 MPa・520 C class ﬁnancing, and technologies as expectations concerning renewable energy combine with robust requirements with regard to boilers that operate at comparatively high temperature and safety and environmental friendliness. high pressure levels to actively generate electricity for Takuma has deep experience and an extensive track record that together make it a market share leader in waste incineration resale to boost their income. In this way, demand for this and processing equipment in Japan. The photograph below depicts a plant that we delivered to Lakeside Energy from Waste type of boiler facility is expected to continue to grow. Limited in the UK, one of a series of nine facilities we have delivered in various countries and regions, including China and the Under these conditions, we look forward to helping UK. Our Lakeside Plant in the UK and our Gaoantun Plant in Beijing have earned a high level of praise and trust from their supply environmentally friendly power from biomass, respective customers, for example due to the facilities having achieved continuous operation for more than 8,000 hours a year. particularly in Southeast Asia, by accommodating demand We are conﬁdent that taking advantage of our extensive experience in the ﬁeld, working closely with stakeholders as we not only in Thailand, but also in neighboring countries such share detailed information, and actively cooperating in order to solve waste treatment-related issues will allow us to better as Indonesia and Vietnam with reliable technology and ﬁne-grained customer service based on our extensive deliver plants that operate in a safe and stable manner to bring peace of mind to the residents of those countries and regions. Introduction to Takumaʼs experience in the ﬁeld. We look forward to contributing to initiatives designed to encourage the adoption of waste power plants in the future by Sugarcane deliveries drawing on the technological expertise that is our strength and partnerships with local companies and other entities to Businesses propose solutions to local needs. Main Recent Project ● Bagasse boiler delivered in FY2017 Main Recent Project Steam capacity: 170 tons per hour Steam pressure: 4.2 MPa ● Lakeside Energy from Waste Plant Steam temperature: 485 C Processing capacity: 1,370 tons per day Number of boilers: 2 (685 tons per day 2 units) Steam capacity: 95 tons per hour per unit Steam pressure: 4.5 MPa Steam temperature: 400 C Power output: 36,650 kW Message Message I oversaw my ﬁrst overseas project in FY2017. Overseas projects pose unique challenges because Recently, I've noticed a big increase in awareness around waste issues, be it in developed or they tend to have larger boilers than domestic Japanese projects and because all interactions with developing countries. But already for over half-a-century, Takuma has been providing environmental the customer during the design process must be carried out in English. I was relieved that we were technology solutions by designing and building hundreds of household waste treatment facilities. As able to deliver this boiler plant to the customer without any issues. Iʼm looking forward to taking one of the few foreigners in Takuma, I'm working to bring our technology and expertise overseas and advantage of the experience Iʼve gained from this project so that I can embrace the challenges of while these projects are very difﬁcult and complicated, the resulting facilities undoubtedly help similar projects in the future. towards creating a cleaner environment for ordinary people and their communities. Yasuyuki Kawabe Marc Nyhan Section 3, Energy Engineering Department 2 Sales Section, Environmental Plant Sales Department Project Center International Operations Division 39 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 40 CSR Activities for the Future CSR Activities for the Future To become a sustainable company while fostering and expanding a broader range of CSR activities, we began compiling a ■ Future issues CSR activity roadmap in FY2011, which we have subsequently implemented over time. In FY2012, we chose a number of key issues based on international guidelines on corporate sustainability reporting published by the Global Reporting Initiative Going forward, we plan to implement CSR activities using techniques that we consider appropriate while relying on (GRI) as well as ISO 26000, an international standard on organizational social responsibility. We are currently working to guidance and advice from outside experts as we choose key issues and develop CSR issues and action programs. resolve those issues. The global business environment that characterizes the environmental and energy ﬁelds in which Takumaʼs business operates grows increasingly diverse day by day, and that environment remains one of intensifying competition. Our technological capabilities in the environmental and energy ﬁelds, which we have reﬁned over many years of experience, form ■ Activity report for FY2017 the basis of our CSR management as well as our greatest strength as we look to make a broad contribution to society. We will continue to draw on this strength in our activities going forward. Each department discussed CSR issues in line with those key issues and developed its own action program. At the end of the year, those departments then conducted self-evaluations to assess how well they had implemented their programs. (The table below outlines some of the results of that process.) ISO 26000 FY2017 action program Key issue CSR issue Department core subjects Action plan Self-evaluation of results Conduct a questionnaire targeting directors in order to increase the We conducted a questionnaire targeting directors and held interviews as Support for measures to increase the effectiveness of Planning Corporate governance effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Evaluate, analyze, and report on the necessary, evaluated and analyzed the results, and reported them to the Board the Board of Directors Division results to facilitate useful discussions at Board of Directors meetings. of Directors. Share formulations of Takumaʼs basic approach, for example Management We highlighted the Management Principles, the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, and CSR Compliance Cultivation of a robust corporate culture Principles, the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, and the Takuma Group Code of the Takuma Group Code of Conduct in the CSR Report and in internal education Division Conduct, and work to ensure that they permeate the organization and take hold. and worked to ensure that they permeate the organization and take hold. Engineering We were able to keep risks from manifesting themselves by applying risk Create a risk management chart for each project, identify risks, and implement Improvement of risk management techniques criteria horizontally to each project. In addition, there were no complaints that Division preventive measures. posed a risk of reduced customer satisfaction. CSR Activities Risk management Enhance the information included in construction plans for each project by Although we identiﬁed risks in our safety and health plans, incorporated that information Review of risk management items in the ﬁeld, identifying risks associated with work in the ﬁeld in order to eliminate into construction plans, audited safety activities in accordance with those plans, and Organizational Construction evaluation and improvement of current conditions, accidents and disasters at construction sites, carry out audits to determine worked to make improvements, accidents still occurred, preventing us from achieving our governance Division for the Future and implementation of risk management whether safety activities are being conducted according to plan, and work to goal. Going forward, we will augment guidance and education for workers with education implement improvements. for site managers while working to improve the safety awareness of partner businesses. We encouraged departments to submit ideas for presentations at meetings of Information disclosure (fulﬁllment of accountability Appropriate disclosure of technical information to Engineering Work internally to disclose technical information in a timely and appropriate manner major academic societies and discussed development topics that seemed requirements and assurance of transparency) outside parties Division as a way to facilitate the announcement of such information to outside audiences. suitable for presentation with the responsible departments. Promotion of understanding (awareness) of social responsibility Marketing Have employees discuss what it means to take the initiative to found their We held internal readings of the Takuma Group Ethics Charter and the Takuma Employee training on social responsibility and recommendations of how employees can take the initiative behavior on an awareness of social responsibility internally in their own Group Code of Conduct, worked to raise awareness of social responsibility, and to found their behavior on an awareness of social responsibility Division department in order to facilitate such conduct. sought to promote conduct that accords with ethical principles. Have employees responsible for projects being researched organize associated We completed an internal report on the results from the previous ﬁscal year at the Engineering Stakeholder engagement Development of trusting relationships with customers ﬁndings (customer evaluations) and report internally so that the entire beginning of the new ﬁscal year and presented it to the QM Committee. The Division department can study and implement countermeasures. evaluation of the coordinators in our department exceeded the corresponding targets. Engineering Share examples of problems that have occurred in the past and use that We shared examples of problems that have occurred in the past at internal Implementation of measures to address risks information to prevent similar issues from occurring in the future and to Division meetings so that similar issues could be dealt with in a conﬁdent manner. associated with maintenance safety and quality facilitate a rapid response in the event that they do. Consumer issues Safety and quality of products and services We worked to improve construction quality by carrying out voluntary inspections Construction Work to improve construction quality by carrying out voluntary inspections in at all sites in the ﬁeld and having internal coordinators carry out checks of the Improvement of construction quality the ﬁeld and strengthening checks of the status of construction management Division in the ﬁeld by internal coordinators. status of construction management in the ﬁeld at least once a month, with the result that we had no orders of additional work due to defective construction. Provide training on the provisions of the Antimonopoly Act as necessary and We offered training on the provisions of the Antimonopoly Act and worked to ensure that Assurance of understanding of, and compliance with, Marketing employees understand the “Regulations Concerning Management of the Pledge of Compliance with the Antimonopoly Act work to ensure that employee conduct accords with the “Regulations the Antimonopoly Act Division Concerning Management of the Pledge of Antimonopoly Act Compliance.” Antimonopoly Act Compliance” and the “Regulations on Managing Contact with Competitorsʼ Sales Departments” and that they will comply with those and other regulations. Marketing We offered training on topics such as preventing bribery and worked to ensure Provide training on topics such as preventing bribery and work to ensure an Observance of fair trade practices with customers an awareness of the importance of compliance permeates the department Fair operating Division awareness of the importance of compliance permeates the department. while carrying out fair business practices with customers. practices Fair business relationships with customers and business partners We held a workshop but did not verify employeesʼ understanding by creating a Observance of fair trade practices with suppliers and Procurement Host regular training sessions on basic contracts to increase individual employeesʼ awareness. test, so we will hold another workshop next year and gauge understanding other business partners Division with a test. Protection and utilization of intellectual property Engineering Offer training related to intellectual property rights to improve and maintain We held a course on patent basics for new employees as part of new-hire Respect of property rights employeesʼ awareness of the importance of protecting those rights. training in an effort to increase employeesʼ knowledge and awareness. rights Division Appropriate employment relationships and labor conditions Encouragement of diversity Human Resources We held an information session for female college students and had female Host information sessions about the company for female college students. (including safety and health, social dialog, etc.) Division employees visit a university laboratory to speak to students. Labour practices Development of additional skills and expertise in Marketing Work to improve the skills of department employees tasked with responsibilities in We worked to share proposal expertise and information about topics such as making proposals Division this area by offering training to improve those skills and sharing skills and expertise. the latest technologies by holding internal lectures as necessary. and human rights Employee skill development (skill enhancement) Construction Summarize concerns arising during product inspections and commissioning along with measures We spread information about quality control problems and examples, encouraged Training and skill development for employees taken in response on internal memos, share the information with department employees at employees to prevent recurrences through monthly internal meetings, and increased plant Division internal meetings and other gatherings, and disseminate it to other involved departments. quality by spreading information about problems that have occurred during commissioning. Development of structures for managing environmental Manufacturing Patrol company sites while offering guidance in order to ensure that no The number of violations fell from the previous ﬁscal year, indicating that the practice Compliance with environmental laws and regulations of turning off the engines of parked vehicles has become established as habit. considerations and reduction of environment impacts Division vehicles are left idling. Environment Formulate and propose plans for new technologies and businesses that would Contributions to resolving environmental Implementation of initiatives to reduce environmental Engineering Although we achieved our goal, we will work to develop plans that will enable allow us to help reduce environmental impacts in the environmental and energy problems impacts Division ﬁelds while differentiating ourselves from competitors in the same industry. us to make a greater contribution to the environment. Community General Affairs Help improve the environment in nearby areas by carrying out clean-up We helped improve the environment in the nearby area by carrying out involvement and Contribution to society Contribution to the communities around our worksites activities in areas near worksites. clean-up activities in areas near worksites. development Division 41 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 42 CSR Activities for the Future Group Company CSR Topics This section introduces messages from the presidents of major Takuma Group companies describing issues they have identiﬁed in the course of pursuing CSR activities and how they are working to address them. ■ Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. ■ Energy Mate Co., Ltd. ● Established September 11, 1969 ● Established June 27, 2001 ● Businesses Design of waste treatment plants, water treatment plants, ● Businesses Onsite energy services for package boilers energy plants, and general-purpose boilers and solutions-related businesses ● Employees 50 (as of March 31, 2018) ● Employees 8 (as of March 31, 2018) ■ Message from the President Yoshihito Fukuma ■ Message from the President Hiroaki Nanjo Weʼre involved with designing industrial machinery that helps protect the environment and save energy. Since Our company was founded with a core business of offering comprehensive onsite energy services we believe human resources are the most important management resource in design operations, our CSR for consumer cogeneration and boiler products. Our goal is to provide ideal energy and activities are focused on improving employeesʼ skills and ensuring that they can make the most of those abilities. cogeneration (solutions that provide both heat and electricity) to stakeholders, and since 2005 we Weʼre working on a companywide basis to facilitate open communication, to develop the habit of taking the have also operated a steam supply business using biomass boilers. We work around the clock to help initiative to improve the way things are done, and to put in place an environment that makes it easy for prevent global warming together with the site users who are our customers. Our CSR activities employees to do their jobs. Weʼre also trying to create novel products by valuing individual employeesʼ ideas and consist of offering services that let us contribute to customersʼ businesses by meeting needs in a maintaining diversity. ﬁne-grained manner while verifying system effectiveness. ■ Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. ■ Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) CSR Activities for the Future ● Established April 13, 1994 ● Established January 26, 1988 ● Businesses Development of computer software ● Businesses Maintenance of waste treatment and other facilities Design, manufacture, sale, construction, and management of ● Employees 15 (as of March 31, 2018) electrical control systems ● Employees 24 (as of March 31, 2018) ■ Message from the President Norito Uchiyama ■ Message from the Chairman Yasuo Takamatsu As a member of the Takuma Group, we manufacture plant control systems for use in waste Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd., is helping protect and improve the environment in Taiwan by treatment and develop and produce application software. offering maintenance for waste incineration plants on the island. Weʼre working to provide safe, Our goal is to create a better tomorrow by harnessing the extensive expertise weʼve developed to conﬁdence-inspiring service based on extensive experience to meet the expectations of customers date so that we can creatively accommodate a variety of changes in the business environment and customer needs and thereby achieve sustained growth. and all other stakeholders and to provide optimal equipment maintenance so that the waste Our employees are committed to working together to develop along with customers and to create incineration plants we maintain will perform to speciﬁcations over the long term. products that satisfy all stakeholders so that we can help create a rich and satisfying society that is also environmentally friendly through our business activities. ■ Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. ■ Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. (Thailand) ● Established April 5, 2000 ● Established August 6, 2002 ● Businesses Measurement and analysis of environmentally hazardous ● Businesses Sale of energy and environment-related plants, sales of parts substances (dioxins, asbestos, wastes, trace substances, etc.) for the same plants and after-sales service and general environmental measurement and testing ● Employees 19 (as of March 31, 2018) ● Employees 45 (as of March 31, 2018) ■ Message from the President Kiyomitsu Ikawa ■ Message from the Managing Director Masahide Okamoto We carry out environmental analysis and testing on a contract basis, and our reports play an important role Are we a reliable company for customers, business partners, employees, and other stakeholders? I in the precise assessment of environmental conditions. Recognizing the importance of that responsibility, we believe that answering this question lies at the heart of CSR. Particularly when operating overseas, endeavor to do our jobs in a fair and appropriate manner by maintaining state-of-the-art equipment, training companies are called upon to engage in business activities that are founded on an understanding on employees in specialized skills and technologies, helping them earn associated qualiﬁcations, and ensuring each countryʼs unique laws, culture, and characteristics. Acting with responsibility based on that they acquire and share knowledge about related laws and regulations. In this way, we strive in a adequate preparations and fulﬁlling accountability with regard to those activities are essential in sustained manner to maintain and improve the quality of our services and to comply with norms of conduct. Weʼve earned certiﬁcation under international standards such as ISO/IEC 17025 to assure the reliability of order to be reliable, and we will strive to live up to all of our responsibilities as a member of the the calibration services we provide, and we look forward to continuing to support the development of a Takuma Group. sustainable society and to consistently offering reliable calibration service of the highest caliber. 43 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 44 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Internal Control As of June 27, 2018, the Board of Directors was comprised of six An Audit & Supervisory Committee that consists of four members, Takuma has adopted a Basic Policy for Establishment of emergency headquarters are established with the company directors (excluding directors who are members of the Audit & of whom three are outside directors, is responsible for accounting an Internal Control System (the full text is available on our president as the director in charge of risk management, and Supervisory Committee) and four directors (of whom three were and operational audits. Members of the committee attend important website) in accordance with the Companies Act. We an organization is put in place in order to minimize and outside directors). The Board of Directors meets regularly once a meetings, including those of the Board of Directors and the continue to review and improve this policy in response to prevent further damage through prompt action. month as a rule and whenever else it is necessary to make decisions Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers, and they strive to understand and changing circumstances. Internal control, constructed and evaluated in order to about important issues related to business management and issues observe the status of business execution in a timely and appropriate Working towards thorough compliance, Takuma built a report on and prevent misstatements in our ﬁnancial established by law and ordinances, as well as to oversee the manner. Drawing on their professional background and experience, compliance promotion organization in FY2006 in order to reporting, is based on the Financial Instruments and execution of the directorsʼ duties. they express their opinions as necessary from an objective continuously implement enlightenment and educational Exchange Act. This internal control on ﬁnancial reporting In order to accelerate management decision-making and clarify perspective, and they conduct strict auditing of the business activities that make corporate ethics, related laws and for the Group has resulted in reports that indicate this where management responsibilities are placed, we have adopted an execution performed by the directors. ordinances, and internal rules fully understood. To control system has been effective. operating ofﬁcer system in which we appoint operating ofﬁcers who To facilitate the effectiveness of audits carried out by the Audit & the danger of loss, we have also prepared a “Risk In this way, we will continue to work in the future to are entrusted with the responsibility of executing our business Supervisory Committee, the president holds regular meetings with Management Code” that determines the person in charge of ensure thorough compliance while carrying out business activities. As of June 27, 2018, there were 14 operating ofﬁcers committee members to ensure good communication, and we have each risk, and we set up our risk management organization properly and efﬁciently while also deepening risk (including those who also serve as directors). Moreover, we have also established an Audit & Supervisory Committeeʼs Ofﬁce to provide according to that Code. When the unexpected occurs, management. established a Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers, which is chaired by staff to help carry out the committeeʼs work. the president/chief operating ofﬁcer, as an organization that In addition to the above, we have established a Human Resources deliberates matters that are brought up at meetings of the Board of & Remuneration Advisory Committee comprised of independent Directors and other important issues related to the execution of our ofﬁcers, representative directors, and the ofﬁcer in charge of human Compliance & CSR Promotion Structure business activities. This committee communicates and provides resources. The committee works to increase transparency and direction about items decided by the Board of Directors and other objectivity in the selection of candidates for director and operating Led by the department in charge of compliance and CSR Regular meetings are held once a year. The person in important items related to the execution of our business activities ofﬁcer positions and in the determination of compensation as well as promotion (CSR Department), Takuma aims at charge of promotion receives reports on the status of appropriately to the divisions that are to execute them. to enhance the supervisory function of the Board of Directors. encouraging that activity through the Compliance & CSR compliance and CSR promotion company-wide, as well as Promotion Organization that was installed for the purpose on the status of the implementation of compliance and CSR of enabling compliance and CSR to concretely permeate promotion education for the past year, etc., and participants General Meeting of Shareholders company-wide through an in-house organization. deliberate on a promotion plan for the current ﬁscal year. This organization is composed of a chairman (the Promotion members convene departmental meetings once Corporate Appointment Reporting Appointment Reporting and Appointment Reporting and removal and removal statement of views and removal Executive Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion a quarter, with educational training aiming at the permeation Reporting Division), a secretariat (positioned in the CSR of compliance and CSR in each department. After Governance Department), and an executing organization in each departmental meetings, promotion members implement Auditing division, center, and department. compliance and CSR promotion education in their respective and Reporting As the person in charge of promoting compliance and departments using training materials or in-house educational supervision Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Accounting Auditors CSR in his or her division, each division or center manager materials and report the result to the Secretariat. Committee Cooperation is appointed as a Compliance and CSR Promotion We are also pursuing awareness-raising and educational Administrator. As persons who implement awareness and activities targeting Group companies through our Takuma Advice Recommendations Assistance education in compliance and CSR in their respective Group Coordinating Committee for Compliance & CSR Selection, Discussion departments, department managers are appointed as Promotion to ensure thorough compliance and risk dismissal, and Human Resources & Audit & Supervisory Auditing of accounts Compliance and CSR Promoters. management throughout the Group. and reporting Remuneration Committeeʼs Ofﬁce supervision The meetings conducted within this mechanism include Advisory Committee Appointment Cooperation Auditing regular meetings and departmental meetings. and removal Board of Directors Reporting Representative Various committees Directors Reporting President Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers Reporting Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers Reporting (Deliberation of important matters) Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization Internal Auditing Chairman (Executive Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion Division) Takuma Group Internal Auditing Compliance & CSR Coordinating Committee for Department Promotion Division Secretariat (CSR Department) Compliance & CSR Promotion Issuance of Discussion of and instructions and Each division and center reporting on Education, communication important matters instructions, and of information reporting Compliance & CSR Promotion Administrator (division or center manager) Internal auditing Observing and Each department Executive Ofﬁcers guidance Compliance & CSR Promoters (department manager) Execution of Enlightenment/education responsibilities Staff members Divisions and centers Corporate governance structure (As of June 27, 2018) Compliance & CSR promotion structure 45 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 46 Corporate Governance Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Takuma follows a “Risk Management Policy” that connects company-wide risks and separately classiﬁes them into “project Takuma has formulated a “Business Continuity Plan” based on the following policies to ensure proper and appropriate risks” related to our core business, i.e., plant construction; “DBO project risks” and “DBO project operation, maintenance and continuity of business operations in the event of a large-scale disaster, pandemic, or other emergency: management risks” related to our DBO business; and “potential risks,” “actualized risks,” and “ﬁnancial reporting risks” related to other corporate business activities. 1. In addition to implementing disaster-related measures to secure the safety of corporate ofﬁcers and employees, We are also building a risk management organization and constructing a system of risk management and promoting the maintain structures so as to enable continuity of business operations while minimizing damage in an emergency. strengthening of management for group companies as well through our Takuma Group Coordinating Committee for 2. Strive to respond to customer needs and recover from damage quickly by working closely with suppliers and partner Compliance and CSR Promotion. companies to continue business operations. 3. Earn the trust of numerous stakeholders, including employees, their families, shareholders, and nearby residents, and fulﬁll social needs by continuing business operations. Risk Management Policy 【Disaster rule system diagram】 ［Basic purpose of risk management］ Risk Management Policy Risk refers to all phenomena that interfere with the groupʼs ability to achieve its business objectives or cause losses or harm to the interests of stakeholders. Risk Management Code The Takuma Group practices risk management with the goal of increasing its corporate value by working to maximize returns while minimizing the negative impacts of risk. Crisis Management Code ［Risk management action guidelines］ Overseas Risk Management Code 1. The president and CEO is responsible for risk management at Takuma. 2. All ofﬁcers and employees participate in risk management activities. Disaster Prevention Management Code 3. Risk management activities are carried out in accordance with applicable guidelines such as the Risk Management * Based on Fire Service Act Rules. Fire Prevention Plan Enforcement Regulations 4. Risk management activities are carried out in line with the Medium-Term Management Plan and annual plan, and we work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. Earthquake Countermeasure Manual Corporate 5. When risk manifests itself, we respond by taking responsible action quickly to minimize any damage and creating BCP activation Storm and Flood Damage Countermeasure Manual Governance provisional organizational entities as necessary. 6. Group companies carry out risk management activities in accordance with their own policies and plans, with support Business Continuity Plan Novel Inﬂuenza Countermeasure Manual from Takuma. (BCP) Safety Conﬁrmation System Administration Rules IR Activities Risk Management Code, Crisis Management Code Project Risk Management Code DBO Project Risk Management Code Risk Management Code for DBO Project Operation, Request for Maintenance and Management In keeping with the “Takuma Group Code of Conduct,” we provide our shareholders and investors with accurate corporate Reporting decision/ information in a timely and fair manner. As a part of this, we provide notiﬁcations on the convening of General Meetings of reporting Project risk Board of President DBO Project risk Risks Shareholders, balance sheet information, timely disclosure information, marketable securities reports, annual reports in English Directors Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers concerning DBO Project operation, and other business information, all on our website. maintenance and management risk corporate Request for activities Evaluation decision/ [Takuma website > IR information] reporting Actualized risk http://www.takuma.co.jp/english/investor/index.html Report on Reporting Reporting Planning/ Each internal reporting division Treasury stock: control Risk Management Department Potential risk 0.1％ evaluation concerning Individuals, others: Financial institutions and ﬁnancial Evaluation Financial 9.3％ stock brokerages: reporting Internal Auditing Department reporting 44.7％ risks Corporations in Japan: 14.9％ Evaluation Group Takuma Group Coordinating companies Committee for Compliance & CSR Promotion (including risk matters) Foreign individuals: 31.0％ Risk management structure Shareholders Report Composition of shareholders (as of March 31, 2018) 47 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 48 Corporate Governance Directors and Executive Ofﬁcers (as of June 27, 2018) ■ Directors ■ Executive Ofﬁcers Takashi Manabe Ryoji Tani Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Norito Uchiyama Mitsuaki Adachi Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer Corporate Governance Akira Taguchi Hidetoshi Tomita Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer (Back row, from the left) Minoru Murata Hiromichi Satake Koji Tanaka Osamu Iwahashi Yasushi Enomoto Outside Director Outside Director Director Outside Director Director (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory Executive Ofﬁcer (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Committee Member) Committee Member) Committee Member) Norio Maeda Kunio Hamada Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer (Front row, from the left) Tsuyohito Nishiyama Kengo Numata Takaaki Kato Hiroaki Nanjo Hideki Takeguchi Director Director Representative Director Director Director Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Vice President President and Senior Managing Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer 49 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 50 Human Rights and Labor Practices Respect for Human Rights and the Abolition of Discrimination Our company sets out its respect for basic human rights ● Takuma Group Ethics Charter (excerpt) Programs to boost employee skills and prohibition of discriminatory acts in the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, Takuma Group Code of Conduct and labor 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights and regulations. In addition, we also support respect for human never practice discrimination. 1. Grade-speciﬁc educational programs rights, without contributing to human rights violations, ● Takuma Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) We work to boost employee skills through grade-speciﬁc educational programs that mark career milestones, starting elimination of forced labor/child labor and the abolition of 【Respect for basic human rights】 with new-employee training and moving on to a technical presentation at the two-year mark, a thesis discussion at the discrimination through participation in the UN Global 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions ﬁve-year mark, a presentation at the 10-year mark, and mid-career training. We also work to improve management Compact. We are also working to promote employment of 10. Respect of individuality, personal quality and privacy skills by offering training to management candidates. disabled and elderly individuals. 11. Safe work environment Technical presentation Thesis discussion New-employee Presentation by Mid-career Management by 2-year by 5-year training 10-year employees training training Lecture on harassment employees employees In January 2018, we invited attorney Yukiko Higashioka of Koyano LPC to deliver a talk on harassment entitled “Compliance and Harassment.” She explained laws related primarily to sexual harassment and power harassment in speciﬁc terms and included information about Takumaʼs regulations and systems, providing an opportunity for employees to learn about preventing harassment and how the company responds to such allegations. Working with Our Employees 2. Technical training sessions We hold technical training sessions in order to increase employeesʼ technical knowledge, including lectures by university professors and outside researchers and presentations by Takuma engineering employees about their work Takuma is implementing a variety of measures to enable each and every employee to make the most of his or her abilities responsibilities and research themes. and to approach his or her job with motivation and interest. 3. Skill improvement support structures We work to improve employeesʼ skills by helping them earn public qualiﬁcations, for example by reimbursing them for Systems designed to boost employee motivation the cost of license and qualiﬁcation examinations and by offering incentives to employees to earn such qualiﬁcations. Human Rights and We offer a course to help employees prepare to earn certiﬁcation as professional engineers, with employees who Labor Practices 1. Objective management and human resources evaluation system have already earned those qualiﬁcations offering guidance on solving examination questions and conducting At the beginning of each ﬁscal year, employees meet with their supervisor to determine their objectives for the year based on their simulated oral examinations. departmentʼs policies. They also participate in a midyear interview with their supervisor in September and in an interview the following March to reﬂect on the year, with the supervisor offering feedback by evaluating their job performance. In this way, supervisors work to train and motivate their subordinates through two-way communication. Establishment Organizational of individual Implementation Midyear Implementation Evaluation Feedback Workstyle reform initiatives objectives of objectives interview of objectives interview objectives 1. Initiatives to correct excessive working hours 2. Initiatives to encourage employees to 2. Self-reporting system In addition to having the Human Resources utilize annual leave and other programs We have introduced a self-reporting system that allows employees who have worked for the company for at least three years to Department interview employees with excessive During the second half of FY2016, we began communicate their thoughts on their future career path directly to the company every three years. Through this system we are working hours and their supervisors to assess the implementing a measure to have employees working to assess employeesʼ awareness, needs, and issues and to apply that information to human resources measures. causes of the phenomenon, we are pursuing initiatives systematically utilize ﬁve days of the time off theyʼre to study and implement corrective measures and to allowed under annual paid leave and other programs. 3. Work group transfer system verify their effectiveness. We have created a work group transfer system to facilitate movement from clerical and labor positions to the main career track so that motivated and skilled employees can make use of their abilities regardless of their gender or academic background. We also provide opportunities for employees to be promoted to management positions. Employee health initiatives 4. In-house commendation system In addition to stress checks and examinations to assess the risk of adult-onset diseases, our annual health checkups include Each year on June 10, the anniversary of the companyʼs founding, we recognize employees who have helped improve the companyʼs performance; done something exceptional outside the cancer and gastric checks for employees who wish to have them. company; earned qualiﬁcation as a professional engineer, doctoral degree, patent, or other We also hold health consultations by an occupational physician (once a month) and counseling sessions by a clinical accomplishment; worked for the company continuously for a certain number of years; authored psychologist (twice a month) as part of our commitment to facilitating employeesʼ physical and emotional health. an exceptional paper; supervised an accident-free site; or otherwise earned recognition. 51 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 52 Human Rights and Labor Practices Working with Our Employees Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives to promote the participation of Occupational safety and health initiatives female employees in the workplace Since FY2006, we have introduced TK-COHSMS based on an occupational safety and health management system for the construction industry and worked actively and independently to improve our safety and health activities. We believe that among We have formulated and made available a general employer action plan in these efforts, the manner in which (1) safety inspections, (2) mandatory safety and health education (education for construction accordance with the Act on Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and Advancement site representatives), and (3) creation of pre-work safety procedure checklists known as SSAs have been steadily adopted by all in the Workplace, and we have worked to deepen understanding of the company departments and used to consistently improve the level of knowledge about Takumaʼs safety and health is particularly noteworthy. on the part of women by including information about talks by female employees We have adopted the following safety and health objectives for FY2018: for construction sites, eliminating accidents that on our recruiting website and by holding information sessions for female college result in work stoppages (of four or more days); for branches, pursuing a thorough program of safety and health education, students. In addition, we are working to increase the number of female employees ensuring adherence to safety inspection guidelines, and implementing the branch safety patrol plan; and for the Safety and in management positions and the number of female employees on the main career Health Cooperative Association, strengthening collaboration with partner companies. We will work to revitalize safety and track (including individuals who have been tentatively offered positions) as of health activities throughout the company by carrying out that role. March 31, 2021, to 20, which would be double the corresponding number as of Rather than contenting ourselves with the status quo, we will pursue new safety and health initiatives to foster a deep March 31, 2016, by putting in place a workplace environment that allows ﬂexible awareness of the concept that underlies our safety and health policy̶“understanding the need for respecting people and workstyles and continued employment by women, for example by expanding giving top priority to safety and health”̶on the part of everyone whoʼs involved in our operations. eligibility for our ﬂex time system. A talk by a female employee (top) and an information session (bottom) Safety and health activities and their results Promoting employment of senior citizens ● Number of reemployed individuals over the past 5 years 1. Safety inspection system We have put in place programs to offer employees We maintain a system where any construction or installation work starts FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 who have left the company after reaching 65 years only after the safety and health manager or other responsible ofﬁcial in Number of employees of age reemployment at Takuma and Group reaching retirement age 8 12 11 3 5 each department conducts a successful safety inspection based on safety companies. Number of employees and health plans for the construction or installation work as prepared by desiring reemployment 6 10 10 2 5 our primary partner companies. Number of reemployed employees 6 10 10 2 5 We strive to ensure a safe work environment at all construction sites by eliminating potential hazards and risk factors identiﬁed by those inspections before work begins. A safety inspection meeting Child-raising and nursing care support measures Human Rights and ● FY2017 We offer the following work programs as support measures for employees with child-raising and nursing care responsibilities. Number of safety inspections done: 160 Labor Practices (Initial inspection pass rate: 94%) 1. Reduced working hours and ﬂex time program We offer reduced working hours to employees who are raising one or more children age two or younger as well as a 2．Safety patrols and ﬁeld education ﬂex time program for employees who are raising one or more children from age three through lower elementary school Based on an annual plan, safety patrols are carried out at worksites by the Safety and Health Committee (comprised (through third grade). We also allow employees who are responsible for providing nursing care to a family member to of committee members and advisors), Safety Control Department, and construction division along with safety utilize these programs. education in the ﬁeld in a precisely targeted and efﬁcient manner. By focusing on the early discovery and elimination of risk in safety patrols and on the improvement of safety 2. Telework program awareness among workers through communication skills in ﬁeld education, these activities help ensure the safety of Since April 2015, we have allowed employees who are raising one or more children who have not yet begun Takumaʼs workplaces. attending elementary school or who are responsible for providing nursing care to a family member to work from home one day a week. ● Number of safety patrols implemented in FY2017 By Safety and Health Committee (members, advisors): 28 ● Impressions from an employee who has taken advantage of these programs By Safety Control Department: 297 I have two infant children, and in our family, the hour between the time the kids wake up in the morning and By construction division: 305 the time they leave the house, and the hour from the time we pick them up in the evening until we have dinner are extremely difﬁcult, both physically and emotionally. By working from home, Iʼve been able to allocate time that I would otherwise spend commuting to childcare and household chores during those times, and thatʼs been extremely helpful by letting me reduce my wifeʼs workload. Social welfare programs that meet employee needs We have introduced cafeteria-style social welfare programs as one way to meet a diverse range of employee needs. This approach provides a ﬁxed annual allowance that employees can “spend” as they wish by choosing from a menu of beneﬁts that includes support for self-study, child-raising and nursing care, healthy living, and ﬁnancial well-being. Field education Safety patrols 53 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 54 Human Rights and Labor Practices Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health 3. Safety and health education (education for construction site representatives) Message from a partner company We continuously provide specialized safety and health education at branches and worksites to increase the levels of safety awareness and knowledge of our employees and partner companies. Our company, which recently celebrated the 47th anniversary of its founding, focuses As indicated below, more than 16,000 trainees have passed the completion exam. We are involved in a variety of primarily on repairing waste incineration facilities in western Japan. Our previous president initiatives to put in place mechanisms for preventing accidents, including by assigning workers with extensive knowledge did business for many years with Takuma, and Iʼve learned much about a variety of topics in areas such as safety-related laws and ordinances to individual construction sites. from Takuma since I ﬁrst joined the company, including furnace installation technology and safety and health management. ● April, 2004 to March, 2018 Safety and health management activities are the responsibility of each company, and we Cumulative number of trainees: 33,362 carry out branch safety patrols on worksites to check every aspect of the work going on there. Number of trainees passing the completion exam: 16,050 In addition, I believe it is our mission to keep tabs on each workerʼs state of health and to conﬁrm that all rules are being followed and that SSA and KYK (hazard prediction activities) are being carried out using the “genba, genbutsu, genjitsu” philosophy. Toshiya Sakaguchi A major challenge for us going forward will be Japanʼs labor shortage, and weʼre particularly President focused on training young furnace installation technicians. With regard to strengthening Chokyu Chikuro Industries Co., Ltd. supervisor skills, we plan to do our best, both by offering in-house training and by participating in site agent training offered by Takuma. In closing, we will continue to strive in partnership with Takuma to create workplaces where employees can work safely and with peace of mind and to complete installation work with zero accidents by following the slogans of “avoiding injury” and “absolutely avoiding causing injury.” Message from Takumaʼs person in charge of procurement Weʼre extremely grateful to Chokyu Chikuro Industries Co., Ltd., which has worked with Head Ofﬁce venue Tokyo Branch venue Takuma as a partner company for close to half a century, primarily by repairing furnaces at waste incineration facilities. Youʼve worked steadily to ensure the safety and health activities that Takuma carries out at its worksites have taken root among your employees, and the results of this steady effort to raise safety awareness on the part of all workers in the ﬁeld has helped you continue to operate Safety and Health Meeting without any accidents that resulted in a work stoppage for about 20 years. As a result of this track record, youʼve made a signiﬁcant contribution to our efforts to build safe workplaces. Human Rights and Labor Practices Takuma holds a Safety and Health Meeting to bring workers with safetyand health-related responsibilities together to Although there are many causes for concern as you continue to operate your business, improve and share their safety and health awareness with the goal of ensuring worker safety and health and promoting the Shinobu Arakawa including the labor shortage in the construction industry, I hope that your company will development of a pleasant work environment. Manager continue to grow while thoroughly practicing and enhancing risk management to address Section 4, The FY2017 meeting included awards for partners who helped achieve zero-accident records at worksites and employees Construction Department (Osaka) changing conditions. who achieved zero-accident performance over many years as worksite managers along with a lecture entitled “Proper Use of Work Safety Equipment” and a talk by an outside instructor entitled “Preventing Human Error: Preventing Errors through Teamwork.” In addition, safety and health partner companies gave presentations on their safety and health policies and goals, Takumaʼs safety results in recent years and all participants closed the meeting by chanting the FY2017 slogan and pledging to continue to work toward thorough safety and health management by utilizing TK-COHSMS. During 2017, both the construction industry and Takuma beneﬁted from brisk business conditions. Although the total number of occupational accidents, including accidents that did not result in work stoppages, fell compared to 2016, the number of accidents that impacted our safety record by necessitating work stoppages rose. In addition to enhancing our safety and health management structures in order to halt this trend, we will work to ensure even more thorough risk management through a uniﬁed effort by all involved so that we can redouble our resolve to eliminate occupational accidents. 15 4.0 ∗ Accident frequency rate 3.93 Accident Accident Year frequency severity Indicates the frequency with which accidents rate rate occur as the number of fatalities caused by 2.79 3.00 3.0 Takumaʼs occupational accidents per 1 million actual 10 9 accident 2013 1.25 0.23 working hours. Number of frequency Number of fatalities casualties 12 2.03 2.0 rate 2014 0.91 0.07 1,000,000 Total actual working hours (persons) and 1.13 0.79 5 1.76 severity 2015 0.92 0.21 ∗ Accident severity rate 0.37 3 1.0 rate Indicates the seriousness of accidents as Presentation of a zero-accident record award Pointing and chanting of the slogan by all participants 1 2016 0.64 0.11 the number of work-days lost per 1,000 3 actual working hours. 0.02 0.03 0.0 Total work-days lost 0 2017 0.81 0.18 1,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Year) Total actual working hours Takumaʼs safety results Reference: Nationwide accident frequency and severity rates for the construction industry (general construction) 55 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 56 The Environment Basic Environmental Policy Takumaʼs CO2 Reduction Technologies Our company has established the “Basic Environmental Policy” as follows, aiming to ensure employees contribute to global environmental conservation. This basic policy applies to the activities of all company departments. We convert waste/biomass into energy and reduce CO2! Environmental Philosophy In 1 year, Takuma products Takuma is committed to preserving the environment and realizing an afﬂuent society through business activities cut about 5million tons! under the Company Motto: “Value Technology, Value People, Value the Earth.” (Equivalent to the CO2 absorbed by about 350 million Japanese cedar trees*) Operational Guidelines *Assuming one Japanese cedar tree absorbs 14 kg of CO2 per year. 1. All Takuma Group companies will recognize the importance of maintaining a balance between preservation of the environment and business activities. 2. Continuously develop activities to preserve the environment that comply with applicable environmental laws and ordinances, and ensure environmental control and assessment systems conform to international environmental ■ Reducing CO2 with biomass power generation boilers standards. A classic example of biomass power generation can be found in sugar 3. Promote development of improved technologies and products for society that preserve the environment. In 1 year, factories. Factories that make sugar produce large quantities of residue from 4. Address resource conservation, energy efﬁciency, recycling, and minimization of waste generated by all business activities. sugarcane, the raw material used to make sugar. Sugarcane is crushed into a pulp, and sugar is extracted in a mill. The remaining ﬁber is called bagasse down about 4million tons! 5. Improve employee awareness and understanding about the importance of preserving the environment through and can be used as boiler fuel. The steam produced is used as the plantʼs heat environmental education and internal promotional activities. source, and any remaining steam is used to generate electricity that is utilized 6. Provide the community with information on the activities of Takuma to preserve the environment. to operate the plant and, if any remains, sold to the electric power company. The amount of power generated at sugar factories has grown greatly, with CO2 reduction achieved by examples of single plant that generates 50,000 kW. Takumaʼs biomass power generation boilers Environmental Management (as of end of FY2017) ●The situation concerning the acquisition of ISO 14001 ● What is biomass? Our Harima Factory has acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and has been implementing environmental management activities Biomass is any recyclable organic material derived from a based on an environmental management system established to comply with international standards. living organism, but does not include fossil fuels, such as oil Wood and coal. For example, even though CO2 is emitted if wood chips Our group companies Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., Takuma Technos Co., Ltd., and Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. have also The Environment waste products are incinerated, when trees grow again, they Energy acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. Palm absorb CO2 to offset the emissions from incineration, so Bagasse kernel there is no increase in CO2 in the atmosphere. By using the shells Biomass-fueled power heat produced by incinerating biomass to generate power, generation boiler the amount of power generated using fossil fuels can be reduced, and this contributes to decreasing CO2. ■ CO2 reduction from waste incineration plants Garbage, or waste, is an important source of energy. About 500 kW** of In 1 year, power can be generated from one ton of garbage. In Europe and the Americas, waste incineration plants are often called Energy from Waste (EfW) plants, and recovering energy from garbage has become the norm. Waste down about must be seen as a “resource,” so Takuma is seeking to be the best in the world with our technologies to convert waste into energy and reduce CO2. 1million tons! ** Presumes waste with a caloriﬁc value of 8,800 kJ per kg and a power generation efﬁciency of 20% CO2 reduction achieved by Takumaʼs municipal solid waste incineration plants and industrial waste incineration plants (as of end of FY2017) 1 ton of Waste 500 kW of About garbage combustion power generated 57 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 58 The Environment Environmental Reporting ■ Environmental accounting Environmental accounting is the process by which companies and other entities recognize the cost of environmental conservation in Takuma reports the environmental impact of its business activities as well as the manner in which it takes environmental their business activities as well as the effects of those activities and measure and communicate them in as quantitative a manner as considerations into account in accordance with the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (issued by the Ministry of the Environment). possible (either in terms of monetary amounts or amounts of materials) with the goal of pursuing environmental conservation initiatives This environmental reporting program includes not only environmental information extracted from our overall business activities in an efﬁcient and effective manner while maintaining a good relationship with society so as to facilitate sustainable development. from an environmental standpoint, but also information about related economic and social aspects of those activities. In FY2006, we introduced and disclosed our own environmental accounting system based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” issued by the Ministry of the Environment. As our business activities mainly involve environmental conservation plants and their equipment, Takuma Group employees have a signiﬁcant awareness of the need for environmental conservation, and ■ Environmental data (non-consolidated) we have been implementing approaches toward such issues within the Takuma Group. ● Total energy consumption ● Greenhouse gas emissions ● Environmental conservation cost 120,000 6,000 According to the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines,” environmental Scope of data collected conservation costs measure on a monetary basis investments and expenditures Period covered: (Tons-CO2 per year) ● on preventing, controlling, or avoiding environmental impacts, eliminating their 80,000 4,000 April 1, 2017, to March 31, 2018 (GJ per year) effects, recovering from associated damage, and initiatives to aid in the same. Investment Costs ● Companies targeted: Item (thousand JPY) (thousand JPY) 40,000 2,000 [12 domestic companies] Business area costs Pollution prevention costs 21,851 17,197 ● Takuma Co., Ltd. (Head Ofﬁce, other ofﬁces Global environmental conservation costs 15,190 21,806 including overseas sites and the Harima Factory) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Resource recycling costs ― 12,971 ● NIPPON THERMOENER CO., LTD. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Management activity costs ― 46,685 ● Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. The total energy consumption of the fuel and the electricity The greenhouse gas emissions created by our company are Research and development costs 4,028 1,361,328 consumed at Takuma during FY2017 fell slightly compared to limited to carbon dioxide (CO2). The amount of CO2 emissions Social activity costs ― 9,925 ● Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. FY2016 levels. We will continue to promote energy savings in FY2017 fell slightly compared to FY2016 levels. We will Total 41,069 1,469,912 ● Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. from here on out. continue striving to reduce CO2 emissions. ● SUNPLANT Co., Ltd. ● Environmental conservation effect ● Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. ● Waste generation ● Water usage According to the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines,” environmental ● Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. Waste generation conservation effects measure on a material basis the effects of preventing, 900 90,000 ● Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. Recycling controlling, or avoiding environmental impacts, eliminating their effects, Final disposal treatment recovering from associated damage, and initiatives to aid in the same. ● Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. ● Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. Item FY2016 FY2017 (Tons per year) 600 60,000 (m3 per year) (1) Environmental conservation effect concerning resources input for ● Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. business activities [2 overseas subsidiaries] Total energy input (GJ) 101,681 97,416 30 30,000 ● Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. Water resources input (m3) 50,584 45,460 (2) Environmental conservation effect concerning environmental loads and ● Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. The Environment wastes created by business activities 0 0 Greenhouse gas emission volume (tons-CO2) 4,337 4,131 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Waste generation (tons) 976 1,028 Final disposal volume (tons) 163 131 Our company sells recyclables and reusables from the waste Takumaʼs water consumption during FY2017 fell slightly Total drainage volume (m3) 48,299 45,460 generated through its business activities to scrap dealers, while compared to FY2016 levels. Going forward, we will continue to BOD emissions (kg) 2,720 2,448 outsourcing the treatment of non-recyclables and non-reusables work to lower our water use. COD emissions (kg) 2,898 2,613 to haulers, processors and ﬁnal disposal dealers, in accordance T-N emissions (kg) 698 645 with the Industrial Waste Control Manifest system. T-P emissions (kg) 119 111 ■ Environmental efﬁciency ■ PRTR target substance emissions Even as total environmental impacts must be reduced, it is 40 necessary from a business management standpoint to pursue Although our business activities do not involve a wide variety of chemical substances on a massive scale, we use a few environmental initiatives that are characterized by a high degree of 29.12 28.61 designated chemical substances. Consequently, we report and register such chemical substances designated under the economic efﬁciency. We report environmental efﬁciency using an 30 26.82 index calculated in accordance with examples provided by the 24.42 Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR), in accordance with relevant laws and ordinances, with the local government. 22.46 Ministry of the Environment in its Environmental Performance 20 Indicators Guidelines for Organizations. ● Dichloromethane (CAS No. 75-09-2) ● Toluene (CAS No. 108-88-3) At the Takuma Group, we calculate environmental efﬁciency as FY 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 the ratio of consolidated net sales to greenhouse gas emissions. In 10 FY2017, this value improved slightly compared to FY2016. Emissions (tons per year) 0 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.5 Emissions (tons per year) 0.08 0.08 0.26 0.09 0.62 0 ● The Takuma Groupʼs deﬁnition of environmental efﬁciency 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ● Xylene (CAS No. 1330-20-7) These materials are used for antirust painting of boiler Consolidated net sales (million JPY) Environmental efﬁciency FY 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 structures and so on. Greenhouse gas emissions (tons-CO2) Emissions (tons per year) 1.4 3.4 2.2 2.9 1.2 59 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 60 Fair Business Practices Compliance & CSR Promotion Education CSR Awareness Survey As a means of understanding the level of awareness of compliance and CSR and the level of permeation of education that Takuma offers compliance and CSR promotion education through the Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization (see page promotes these priorities, and employing that data as reference for the integrated activities carried out during each ﬁscal year 46), which was established in order to spread awareness of compliance and CSR issues among employees. and for the following ﬁscal yearʼs action plan, we have conducted the “CSR Awareness Survey” every year since FY2008 with During FY2017, we implemented education focusing on compliance and CSR promotion in four separate stages (see below) in the end goal of utilizing that information for future compliance and CSR promotion activities. The survey has included Group keeping with our policy of pursuing a sustained and thorough program of improving compliance and CSR awareness and risk companies since FY2013. management based on a consideration of internal conditions and the characteristics of Group companies in response to social We actively use survey results in our activities, for example by offering additional education in areas that received lower requirements and expectations in accordance with the basic policy of cultivating a robust corporate culture and the perspectives of scores than in the previous survey. accommodating environmental change and practicing risk management as set forth in the 11th Medium-Term Management Plan. We will continue to offer this survey and use its results to improve compliance and CSR promotion education on an ongoing basis. ● 1st term: Bid-rigging and the Antimonopoly Act ● 2nd term: Takuma CSR comprehension test ● 3rd term: Risk management, security export control In-house Reporting System ● 4th term: Compliance and harassment, forward-looking CSR activities: CSR issues and an action program Takuma has been operating an in-house reporting system Persons seeking consultation or making reports since FY2006, with the aim of promoting compliance management by uncovering illegal or unfair acts as early as ■ CSR lectures for management-level employees Consultation possible and undertaking corrective measures. Response or report During FY2017, we invited experts to give the following talks to management-level employees: Reporting contacts are set up at our Compliance & CSR Promotion Division and at an outside law ofﬁce, as well as a Outside report contact Law ofﬁce dedicated outside report contact for anonymous e-mail (Anonymous e-mail) reporting. Our “In-house Reporting Code” and the Takuma Group Code of Conduct further declare that no informant shall be subjected to disadvantageous treatment simply due to his or her having ﬁled a report. Compliance & CSR Promotion Division Furthermore, in order for this system to be correctly (Investigation and response) understood and utilized, we distribute a card to all employees with information on the reporting contacts and regularly In-house reporting process 1st lecture (September 27, 2017) 2nd lecture (January 24, 2018) publicize the system. “Compliance as a way to increase corporate value: Taking “Group management and the responsibilities of parent advantage of internal reporting systems” company ofﬁcers” (Lecturer: Mr. Kiyoshi Endo, Attorney at Law, Endo Kiyoshi Law Ofﬁce) (Lecturer: Ms. Junko Yamada, Professor, The Konan Law School) Material Procurement Policy Our Purchasing Department carries out procurement activity in accordance with its Material Procurement Policy. 【Material Procurement Policy】 We provide fair opportunities for all suppliers, irrespective 1. Treat all candidates fairly when selecting a supplier. Compliance Measures of nationality, company size, or transaction history. Suppliers 2. Strive to discover new manufacturers. Fair Business are selected based on our comprehensive evaluation of their reliability and safeness in terms of quality, price, delivery, 3. Strictly control conﬁdential information. Practices ● Initiatives to ensure compliance with the Antimonopoly Act ● Holding training sessions about the Antimonopoly Act etc., as well as their abilities in technological development 4. Strive to acquire new and pertinent information. Towards ensuring permanent compliance with the We hold regular training sessions about the and supply capabilities. 5. Promote green procurement. Antimonopoly Act, Takuma enacted “Regulations Antimonopoly Act to deepen participantsʼ understanding of Long-term stable transactions with dependable suppliers Concerning Management of the Pledge of Antimonopoly the act and to ascertain the latest information about it. 6. Comply with laws and ordinances related to result in improved product reliability and greater corporate Act Compliance,” which provides for the submission of a business dealings. value. We, therefore, seek to establish relationships of mutual written oath in regard to observing the Antimonopoly Act. 7. Always keep VA and VE in mind. trust and mutual development with our suppliers. “Rules on Controlling Contact with Competitorsʼ Sales ● Introducing a Legislation Information Service While also respecting relevant laws and regulations as well 8. Strive for self-development. Departments, Etc.,” deﬁnes the procedure for an employee In order to allow its employees to gain a continuous grasp of as social norms, we strictly control and maintain any to contact the sales department, etc., of a competitor and the latest changes to laws and ordinances, Takuma introduced a conﬁdential information that we obtain through our business speciﬁes that an application should be made to and an Legislation Information Service. In this system, legislation alerts transactions. approval should be obtained from the afﬁliated division or highlighting revisions to, and abolition of, laws and ordinances More information about the procurement procedures used by our Purchasing Department is available on the following center manager in advance to ensure fair business contact. are sent by e-mail in advance to employees, who can also review website: detailed information about the corresponding law or ordinance on [Takuma website > Material Procurement] http://www.takuma.co.jp/procurement/ (content in Japanese) the website as needed. In addition to current laws and ordinances, the system lets users search for legal precedents and public comments to facilitate an even greater understanding of relevant laws and ordinances. 61 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 62 Consumer Issues Activities Involving Product Quality The amount of attention paid by consumers (stakeholders) to quality in a wide range of ﬁelds, including manufacturing and services, has been growing in recent years. This section introduces Takuma initiatives that are designed to provide safe, Customer satisfaction survey conﬁdence-inspiring products and plants. Takuma has earned certiﬁcation under the ISO 9001 standard on management systems, and in December 2017 we completed our We carry out the following quality improvement initiatives: transition to the latest version of the standard, the 2015 edition. In addition to working to improve the quality of our products in (1) Conducting a customer satisfaction survey every year Customer satisfaction survey process accordance with our Quality Policy and quality management system, we are pursuing activities that emphasize customer satisfaction. since FY2007 In order to produce products and plants that customers truly appreciate, it is necessary not only to boost the quality of the product (2) Applying customer feedback with regard to delivered Decide where to conduct the questionnaire survey itself, but also to improve the operations and quality as well as each individualʼs ability to create a good plant in each process from products and Takuma employees to quality and service planning up to delivery (sales, planning, design, procurement, manufacture, construction, and management). The ﬁgure to the right illustrates how the survey is administered. Conduct the questionnaire survey Takuma Co., Ltd. has adopted the following Quality Policy in order to provide satisfying products that meet First, we administer questionnaires targeting customers customer expectations and earn a high level of trust while continuously improving the effectiveness of its who had construction work done by asking them to assess the quality management system. overall experience after the work is completed, including the Investigate the questionnaire results nature of the work performed, suitability of delivered Quality Policy Analyze problem factors and investigate equipment, and the level of service provided by Takuma staff. “Manufacturing products that result in customer satisfaction” Next, the QM Committee calculates a score for each item recurrence prevention countermeasures (if results are lower than our standard) based on the survey results as well as a report and Analyze praiseworthy factors Based on that Quality Policy and the three priority items described below, Takuma is working to improve the quality of its explanation from the responsible department. The (particularly for praiseworthy aspects) products and services through a variety of initiatives that address every process, including in sales, planning, design, committee then analyzes the resulting data. procurement, manufacture, construction, and management. If we ﬁnd a problem, for example an item receiving an evaluation score of less than 70 out of 100 or a score of 1 Apply recurrence prevention measures and (dissatisﬁed) or 2 (rather dissatisﬁed) on a 4-point scale, the Priority items QM Committee analyzes the cause of the problem and praiseworthy factors across the organization studies measures to prevent recurrence based on interviews ● Creating value to earn customer satisfaction (ascertaining customer needs and making improvements based on past experience) with the department in question. We also evaluate aspects of ● Carrying out risk management (addressing changes in the business environment and human error) our products and services that receive especially high praise Follow up with recurrence prevention measures ● Implementing human resources management (implementing human resources development and ensuring skills are passed from customers and work to further enhance customer Follow up on results down to younger employees) satisfaction by combining problem areas and praiseworthy areas and applying them horizontally across involved departments at the company. Speciﬁc initiatives for improving quality For customers targeted for problem analysis and consideration of preventive measures based on the survey results, we also conduct a follow-up survey to discern whether those measures were reliably implemented and whether their ■Improving organizational operations level of satisfaction has indeed improved. As an organizational initiative thatʼs designed to boost product quality, we have each department establish quality targets at the beginning of the year and then provide regular reports (twice a year) on progress towards achieving those With scores averaging higher than 80 points every year since its second year, the questionnaire demonstrates goals at QM Committee meetings (quality management reviews). the effectiveness of our initiatives. In this way, we work to improve product and plant quality so that all customers are satisﬁed. ■Internal quality audits In addition to increasing the precision of operations by standardizing operating procedures in each departmentʼs processes, we are improving operations as necessary by carrying out an internal quality audit of each department to verify the status of (Points) Number of surveys Average score (Surveys) quality management system operation. 100 40 Internal quality audits are carried out regularly by employees who have been certiﬁed as internal auditors after completing Consumer Issues internal quality auditor training seminars offered by instructors from an outside organization. At the training seminars, 37 employees master content ranging from basic knowledge about ISO 9001 to speciﬁc methods for conducting internal audits. 90 87.7 88.2 86.8 ■Improving the employeesʼ individual operational skills 85.5 85.9 85.8 85.6 30 83.5 82.3 To improve employeesʼ individual operational skills, we have created an operational skill achievement checklist that 80.2 27 27 27 80 26 identiﬁes the skills required by personnel in each process for use in regular assessments, and we are reviewing the targets 25 we have chosen. 73.4 23 20 ■Quality control and process reviews 70 19 18 18 Quality control is an important measure that allows us to provide exceptional products and plants. 16 We take action (improvement measures) as outlined by a manual (standard) in the event a non-conforming product is discovered, but even if an issue doesnʼt lead to a non-conforming product, we conduct a review as a preventive measure if 60 10 there are processes that could have caused the issue. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Furthermore, we actively offer training to new business partners and retraining (instruction) for existing business Number of questionnaire surveys and average score partners to prevent defects in the products we purchase. 63 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 64 Participation in the Community / Contribution to Society Participation in the Community Contribution to Society Reﬂecting their dedication to providing safe, reliable facilities that inspire peace of mind on the part of local residents, This page introduces some examples of Takumaʼs community service activities. Takuma and its Group companies work actively to disclose information in an appropriate manner, keep the areas around plants clean, participate in regional activities, and engage in exchanges with local residents. This section introduces some of those efforts. ●Takuma Group coordinated cleanup activities The Takuma Group orchestrates coordinated clean-up activities in the areas around its worksites each year as a way for volunteers to beautify the environment and contribute to ■ Hitachinaka-Tokai High Trust Co., Ltd. society. During FY2017, a total of 547 employees participated in two such activities. The Hitachinaka-Tokai High Trust is working actively to participate in local activities activities provided an opportunity for employees to think afresh about waste-related and to foster exchanges with local residents, including by participating in issues and their connection to the community. Going forward, the Takuma Group will coordinated clean-up activities in the surrounding area. continue this initiative. During FY2017, the company sponsored and participated in the 66th Katsuta Marathon, which was held in January 2018. The company has been involved with the event every year since it was ﬁrst run. ●Participation in the “Osaka Marathon ʻCleanupʼ Campaign” In November 2017, volunteers from the former Plant Service Department (Osaka) participated in the “Osaka Marathon ʻCleanupʼ Campaign,” a cleanup activity that is held ■ Kurume High Trust Co., Ltd. every year as part of the Osaka Marathon. The activity brought together organizational, Kurume High Trust offers nature and environmental learning programs to ensure group, and individual volunteers to beautify public spaces throughout the city. that Kurumeʼs pleasant living environment can be passed on to the next generation, primarily through the Miyanojin “Manabino” Biotope at its facility, which is designed to serve as a space where visitors can learn about wildlife in the Kurume region. ●Blood donation campaign During FY2017, the company offered three classes for area parents and their Takuma supports blood donation activities through the Japanese Red Cross children: a ﬁreﬂy-watching class entitled “Letʼs Go View Fireﬂies” in June, “The Great Search for River Life” in August, and “The Great Search for Biotope Life” in November. Society. During FY2017, a total of 167 donors participated in spring and fall blood drives at the Head Ofﬁce and Harima Plant. Donors can simultaneously register as bone marrow donors, and this year four employees did so. We plan to continue this activity in the future. ■ Suwako High Trust Co., Ltd. In FY2017, Suwako High Trust welcomed more than 300 visitors to its facility in ●WFP fundraising activities November when it hosted the “Eco-Poppo Community Festival,” which is named for Takuma serves on the Board of Trustees of the Japan Association for the the site. Following a report on the operation of the plant, Okaya City Nagaike World Food Programme, the ofﬁcial supporting partner of the World Food Elementary Schoolʼs chorus performed. In addition, “Explore eco-Poppo” tours Programme in Japan. Each year, we display WFP posters at the entrances to Blood donation activities offered attendees a chance to tour parts of the facility that are normally off-limits to company buildings and in cafeterias during a campaign that lasts from June visitors, and there was also a simulation designed to let people see what itʼs like to through August. The campaign serves both to increase employee interest in operate a waste crane. the worldʼs food problems and to collect donations to address them. WFP fundraising activities ■ Hokutan High Trust Co., Ltd. ■ Contributions to NPOs Hokutan High Trust provides space to foster exchanges with area residents to ● Purchasing UNICEF Christmas cards facilitate environmental learning and awareness-raising, including by preparing to Takuma purchases UNICEF Christmas cards. A portion of the proceeds is used to fund UNICEF in their work to help serve as an evacuation site in the event of a natural disaster. During FY2017, the company participated in the Clean Park Hokutan Festival, children around the world. which was held in order to deepen the general publicʼs understanding of the facility through events such as facility tours, nature experiences as part of an environmental ● Donating calendars to a charity calendar market learning program, and craft lessons. Many visitors brought their children and Takuma donates unused calendars to a calendar market sponsored by the NPO “Nippon Volunteer Network Active in participated in the craft lessons, where they made items such as candles, bamboo Disasters.” In FY2017, we donated about 100 calendars. The proceeds are used to provide aid for victims of natural crafts, and plastic bottle airplanes. disasters and other crises. Participation in the Community/ ■ Iwate-Kenpoku Clean Co., Ltd. ■ Publications Contribution to Society Iwate-Kenpoku Clean is committed to disclosing information about its operations ● Publication of the Takuma Technical Review to the general public, including by publishing maintenance and management We publish the Takuma Technical Review twice a year to introduce technologies records on its website and by regularly publishing a variety of information in the IKC that Takuma has developed. Contents in FY2017 included an explanation of how Newsletter. sewage sludge incineration ash can be used effectively and reports on plant During FY2017, the company continued to be involved in community service activities, including by participating in the village of Kunoheʼs Village Sports and equipment operation, trial demonstration results, and observations from a visit to an Recreation Festival in September and by picking up litter in the Esashika district and environmental facility overseas. Abstracts are available on Takumaʼs website. participating in the Kunohe Industry, Art, and Culture Festival in October. [Takuma top page > Technical Information > Technical Review] http://www.takuma.co.jp/english/gijutu/gihou.html 65 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 66 Financial Data Trend in Principal Management Indicators and Other Financial Data Business performance during the ﬁscal year under review 109th 110th 111th 112th 113th 114th 114th The Japanese economy continued a gradual recovery during the consolidated ﬁscal year under review as corporate Fiscal year ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Thousands of U.S. dollars ) earnings grew along with employment and incomes. Despite gradual economic expansion overseas, uncertainty remained in the form of the UKʼs exit from the EU and actions by the administration in the U.S., clouding the outlook for the future. End of ﬁscal year March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 March 2018 Against this economic backdrop, the Takuma Group expects to see continued demand for its principal businesses thanks to increased environmental awareness; progress in initiatives to prevent global warming and conserve resources Net sales ¥ 96,384 ¥ 96,334 ¥ 103,875 ¥ 113,088 ¥ 116,309 ¥ 118,199 $ 1,112,562 and energy; planned replacement of, and updates to, outdated waste treatment facilities; and energy policies that are favorable for biomass power facilities, for example in the form of feed-in tariﬀ programs for power. Operating income ¥ 6,241 ¥ 8,424 ¥ 8,223 ¥ 9,189 ¥ 10,974 ¥ 10,030 $ 94,408 During the consolidated ﬁscal year under review, we received orders for projects including construction of biomass power facilities and sewage sludge-fueled power generation facilities in addition to construction of waste treatment Ordinary proﬁt ¥ 7,168 ¥ 9,449 ¥ 9,116 ¥ 9,646 ¥ 11,606 ¥ 10,670 $ 100,433 facilities, primary improvement work, and facility operation, maintenance, and management. As a result, order volume Proﬁt attributable to totaled 177,116 million yen. Although volume fell 13,910 million yen (7.3%) from the previous consolidated ﬁscal year, ¥ 6,145 ¥ 8,835 ¥ 8,030 ¥ 7,817 ¥ 8,551 ¥ 7,847 $ 73,865 owners of parent performance remained strong. Sales rose 1,890 million yen (1.6%) from the previous consolidated ﬁscal year to 118,199 million yen on steady Comprehensive income ¥ 6,712 ¥ 9,935 ¥ 9,398 ¥ 7,149 ¥ 9,937 ¥ 10,177 $ 95,797 progress in construction projects such as waste treatment facilities and biomass power facilities. As a result, the backlog totaled 273,060 million yen. Net assets ¥ 34,653 ¥ 43,889 ¥ 52,516 ¥ 58,809 ¥ 67,727 ¥ 76,726 $ 722,193 Operating income was 10,030 million yen, ordinary proﬁt was 10,670 million yen, and proﬁt attributable to owners of parent was 7,847 million yen, down 944 million (8.6%), 936 million yen (8.1%), and 704 million yen (8.2%), respectively, Total assets ¥ 106,754 ¥ 108,520 ¥ 123,127 ¥ 132,614 ¥ 140,201 ¥ 151,862 $ 1,429,420 from the previous consolidated ﬁscal year, when performance beneﬁted from cost reductions. Net assets per share（JPY or USD） ¥ 415.92 ¥ 527.50 ¥ 631.53 ¥ 708.18 ¥ 815.77 ¥ 924.25 $ 8.70 Performance by segment was as follows: Net income per share（JPY or USD） ¥ 74.32 ¥ 106.86 ¥ 97.12 ¥ 94.55 ¥ 103.43 ¥ 94.93 $ 0.89 (Millions of yen) Diluted net income per share Segment Orders received Sales amount Operating income Backlog （JPY or USD） Domestic Environment and Energy 148,892 90,075 10,488 262,388 Capital adequacy ratio (%) 32.2 40.2 42.4 44.1 48.1 50.3 50.3 Overseas Environment and Energy 3,873 3,401 78 2,783 Return on equity (%) 19.7 22.7 16.8 14.1 13.6 10.9 10.9 Package Boiler 17,696 17,321 1,015 3,350 Price-to-earnings ratio 7.4 6.9 9.7 10.7 10.5 12.3 12.3 Cash ﬂows from Equipment and System Business 7,141 7,697 229 4,770 ¥ 17,465 ¥ 8,270 ¥ 21,727 ¥ 6,728 ¥ 9,590 ¥ 5,141 $ 48,388 operating activities Cash ﬂows from Sub-total 177,603 118,494 11,810 273,292 ¥ (59) ¥ (1,430) ¥ (160) ¥ (445) ¥ 143 ¥ (328) $ (3,088) investing activities Cash ﬂows from Adjustment （486） （295） （1,780） （231） ¥ (8,887) ¥ (5,867) ¥ (3,707) ¥ (2,900) ¥ (1,787) ¥ (1,670) $ (15,720) ﬁnancing activities End-of-year balance of Total 177,116 118,199 10,030 273,060 ¥ 26,005 ¥ 27,030 ¥ 45,008 ¥ 48,335 ¥ 57,132 ¥ 60,283 $ 567,425 cash and cash equivalents Number of employees 3,288 3,315 3,266 3,366 3,447 3,609 3,609 Financial Data Note: 1. U.S. dollar amounts are shown solely for the convenience of readers and are translated at the rate of ¥106.24 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2018. 2. Ordinary proﬁt is a measure of accounting proﬁt that equals operating income plus other income minus other expenses, except for extraordinary items under Japanese GAAP. 67 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 68 Financial Data Consolidated Balance Sheets TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2018 and 2017 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars ASSETS 2018 2017 2018 LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2018 2017 2018 Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and time deposits ¥ 60,864 ¥ 57,719 $ 572,888 Short-term loans payable ¥ 7,675 ¥ 7,675 $ 72,242 Notes and accounts receivable: Current portion of long-term debt 470 468 4,422 Trade 50,049 44,716 471,092 Notes and accounts payable Unconsolidated subsidiaries Trade 34,913 32,569 328,625 and aﬃliated companies 380 391 3,578 Unconsolidated subsidiaries Other 381 242 3,590 and aﬃliated companies 234 344 2,204 Less allowance for doubtful accounts (38) (27) (358) Other 979 931 9,214 Total 50,772 45,322 477,902 Total 36,126 33,844 340,043 Inventories 4,307 3,897 40,538 Accrued income taxes 281 2,532 2,644 Deferred tax assets 1,669 2,471 15,708 Advances received 13,592 7,935 127,936 Other 1,372 766 12,917 Allowance for guarantees on completed work 86 177 808 Total current assets 118,984 110,175 1,119,953 Allowance for losses on sales contracts 373 3,578 3,508 Other 5,709 5,734 53,741 Property, plant and equipment: Total current liabilities 64,312 61,943 605,344 Land 3,011 3,018 28,344 Buildings and structures 12,287 12,225 115,647 Long-term liabilities: Machinery, equipment, ｌease assets and construction in progress 10,653 11,119 100,275 Long-term debt 459 929 4,319 25,951 26,362 244,266 Allowance for directorsʼ and executive oﬃcersʼ retirement beneﬁts 183 152 1,728 Less accumulated depreciation (17,450) (17,434) (164,245) Net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 9,406 9,011 88,535 Total property, plant and equipment 8,501 8,928 80,021 Other 776 439 7,301 Total long-term liabilities 10,824 10,531 101,883 Investments and other assets: Total liabilities 75,136 72,474 707,227 Investment securities 16,885 13,161 158,932 Contingent liabilities Investments in: Unconsolidated subsidiaries Net assets: and aﬃliated companies 5,015 4,950 47,204 Common stock 13,367 13,367 125,823 Other 1,823 938 17,155 Authorized: 321,840,000 shares Less allowance for doubtful accounts (471) (461) (4,433) Issued: 83,000,000 shares Total 6,367 5,427 59,926 Capital surplus 3,768 3,768 35,469 Deferred tax assets 785 2,210 7,388 Retained earnings 52,949 46,258 498,386 Other 340 300 3,200 Treasury stock, at cost (235) (234) (2,214) Total investments and other assets 24,377 21,098 229,446 331,385 shares in 2018 and 331,201 shares in 2017 Total shareholders' equity 69,849 63,159 657,464 Unrealized gains on securities 7,161 4,886 67,407 Total assets ¥ 151,862 ¥ 140,201 $ 1,429,420 Deferred gains and losses on hedges (46) (21) (438) Foreign currency translation adjustments 2 6 22 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans (559) (591) (5,265) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 6,558 4,280 61,726 Non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries 319 288 3,003 Total net assets 76,726 67,727 722,193 Financial Data Total liabilities and net assets ¥ 151,862 ¥ 140,201 $ 1,429,420 69 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 70 Financial Data TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended Marcｈ 31, 2018 and 2017 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Foreign Total Noncurrency Remeasureaccumulated controlling Consolidated Statements of Operations Treasury Total Unrealized Deferred gains translation ments of other interests in Total Common Capital Retained stock, shareholders' gains on and losses adjustdeﬁned comprehensive consolidated net stock surplus earnings at cost equity securities on hedges ments beneﬁt plans income subsidiaries assets For the years ended March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Tｈousands of Balance at the beginning of current period ¥13,367 ¥3,768 ¥46,258 ¥(234) ¥63,159 ¥4,886 ¥(21) ¥6 ¥(591) ¥4,280 ¥288 ¥67,727 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash dividends (¥14.00 per share) (1,156) (1,156) (1,156) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 7,847 7,847 7,847 2018 2017 2018 Purchase of treasury stock (1) (1) (1) Net sales ¥ 118,199 Other changes during the year, net (25) (4) 32 2,278 31 2,309 ¥ 116,309 $ 1,112,562 2,275 Balance at the end of current period ¥13,367 ¥3,768 ¥52,949 ¥(235) ¥69,849 ¥7,161 ¥(46) ¥2 ¥(559) ¥6,558 ¥319 ¥76,726 Cost of sales 93,372 90,693 878,877 For the years ended March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Gross proﬁt 24,827 25,616 233,685 Balance at the beginning of current period ¥13,367 ¥3,768 ¥38,754 ¥(232) ¥55,657 ¥3,586 ¥(27) ¥(11) ¥(660) ¥2,888 ¥264 ¥58,809 Selling, general and administrative expenses 14,797 14,642 139,277 Cash dividends (¥12.00 per share) (992) (992) (992) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 8,551 8,551 8,551 Operating income 10,030 10,974 94,408 Change in scope of consolidation (55) (55) (55) Otｈer income (expenses): Purchase of treasury stock (2) (2) (2) Other changes during the year, net 1,300 6 17 69 1,392 24 1,416 Interest and dividend income 367 337 3,455 Balance at the end of current period ¥13,367 ¥3,768 ¥46,258 ¥(234) ¥63,159 ¥4,886 ¥(21) ¥6 ¥(591) ¥4,280 ¥288 ¥67,727 Interest expense (66) (76) (621) For the years ended March 31, 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars Foreign currency excｈange loss (157) (1,478) Balance at the beginning of current period $125,823 $35,469 $435,415 $(2,212) $594,495 $45,987 $(196) $53 $(5,559) $40,285 $2,711 $637,491 Gain on sales of investment securities 111 1,041 Cash dividends ($0.13 per share) (10,894) (10,894) (10,894) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 73,865 73,865 73,865 Gain on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates 90 850 Purchase of treasury stock (2) (2) (2) Loss on valuation of investment securities (60) (565) Other changes during the year, net 21,420 (242) (31) 294 21,441 292 21,733 Balance at the end of current period $125,823 $35,469 $498,386 $(2,214) $657,464 $67,407 $(438) $22 $(5,265) $61,726 $3,003 $722,193 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (44) (51) (419) Equity in earnings of aﬃliated companies 461 280 4,344 Otｈer, net 79 142 744 Otｈer income (expenses), net 781 632 7,351 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Tｈousands of Income before income taxes 10,811 11,606 101,759 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Income taxes: 2018 2017 2018 Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Current 1,352 2,859 12,731 ¥ 10,811 ¥ 11,606 $ 101,759 Income before income taxes Deferred 1,581 172 14,879 Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes to net cash provided by operating activities: Total income taxes 2,933 3,031 27,610 Depreciation 790 851 7,433 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (111) 0 (1,041) Loss (gain) on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates (90) 1 (850) Proﬁt 7,878 8,575 74,149 Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 60 565 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts 20 (18) 191 Increase (decrease) in allowance for bonuses 307 182 2,892 Proﬁt attributable to non-controlling interests Increase (decrease) in allowance for losses on sales contracts (3,205) (1,586) (30,168) in consolidated subsidiaries 31 24 284 Increase (decrease) in net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 441 445 4,152 Interest and dividend income (367) (337) (3,455) Interest expense 66 76 621 Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent ¥ 7,847 ¥ 8,551 $ 73,865 Equity in losses (earnings) of aﬃliated companies (461) (280) (4,344) Net decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable and advances received 200 463 1,884 Decrease (increase) in inventories (387) 148 (3,640) Yen U.S. dollars Decrease (increase) in other current assets (305) (25) (2,875) Net increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable and advance money 1,959 (2,143) 18,438 Per sｈare: Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities (426) 1,489 (4,007) Net income ¥ 94.93 ¥ 103.43 $ 0.89 Other (798) 148 (7,506) Subtotal 8,504 11,020 80,049 Diluted net income Interest and dividend received 456 405 4,293 Interest paid (66) (76) (625) Casｈ dividends applicable to tｈe year 16.00 13.00 0.15 Income taxes received (paid) (3,753) (1,759) (35,329) Net cash provided by operating activities 5,141 9,590 48,388 Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Net decrease (increase) in time deposits 4 3 40 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (343) (575) (3,231) Purchase of intangible ﬁxed assets (125) (65) (1,174) Purchase of investment securities (561) (473) (5,277) Tｈousands of Sale of investment securities 230 13 2,161 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Disbursement for loans receivable (151) (171) (1,423) Collection of loans receivable 550 1,328 5,175 2018 2017 2018 Other 68 83 641 Proﬁt ¥ 7,878 ¥8,575 $74,149 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (328) 143 (3,088) Other comprehensive income： Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Unrealized gains on securities 2,275 1,299 21,420 Net increase (decrease) in short-term bank loans (75) Payment of long-term debt (468) (673) (4,403) Deferred gains and losses on hedges (3) (29) (30) Financial Data Purchase of treasury stock (1) (2) (2) Foreign currency translation adjustments (4) 23 (36) Payment of cash dividends (1,157) (992) (10,894) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (21) (17) (199) Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 31 69 294 (23) (28) (222) Other Total other comprehensive income 2,299 1,362 21,648 Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (1,670) (1,787) (15,720) Comprehensive income ¥ 10,177 ¥ 9,937 $ 95,797 Eﬀect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 8 15 78 Comprehensive income attributed to: Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,151 7,961 29,658 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 57,132 48,335 537,767 Owners of the parent ¥ 10,125 ¥ 9,942 $ 95,306 Increase in cash and cash equivalents from newly consolidated subsidiary 836 Non-controlling interests 52 (5) 491 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥ 60,283 ¥ 57,132 $ 567,425 71 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 72 Outside Expert Opinion Outside Expert Opinion Response to the Outside Expert Opinion Takuma Corporate Profile & CSR Report 2017 Questionnaire Survey Results Survey period: July 2017 to June 2018 Number of respondents: 961 Q1 Did you understand the activities of our company? I couldnʼt understand very well. 0.4% / I couldnʼt understand. 0% Koji Tanaka Director & Executive Ofﬁcer I basically Executive Manager understood. I understood. Kazuhiko Takano Compliance & 43% 57% Professor, Ph.D. in Law (LL.D.) CSR Promotion Division & Graduate School and Faculty of Safety Science, Kansai University Corporate Service Division Senior Director Japan Society for Business Ethics Study Q2 What is your level of satisfaction regarding this Report? Senior Researcher I would like to thank Professor Takano of Kansai Business Ethics Research Center University for offering his valuable insights on the CSR (1) Volume of information (2) Design Entirely insufficient 0% / Report 2018. Somewhat insufficient 1% Very bad 0% / Poor 0.4% Too much 3% In compiling this report, we have worked to offer Average stakeholders an easy-to-understand introduction to a 1. Features of the Takuma Groupʼs Somewhat excessive 23% variety of activities carried out by the Takuma Group with Satisfied approach to CSR management the goal of resolving social issues and increasing corporate 23% Satisfied Mostly 47% assessing the penetration of compliance and CSR education 73% satisfied value by achieving sustained growth as well as to the 29% I believe that the Takuma Groupʼs business plays an year by year, the company is working to improve associated Groupʼs 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, which began important role in supporting Japanese industry, particularly measures. this year, and we have focused on inviting involved parties (3) Quality of information (4) Readability with regard to a wide variety of plants, and there is strong I believe that the Takuma Groupʼs CSR activities are to express their thoughts on related subjects in their own Unsatisfactory 0% / Somewhat unsatisfactory 0.4% Difficult to read 0.3% need on the part of society for the company to continue to distinguished by extensive employee education and Somewhat difficult words. operate. I conduct research into CSR as a specialist in the communication. I also believe that companies can address Average to read 2% Iʼd like to express our gratitude to Professor Takano for his 12% Average various management structures that provide a basis for most of the risks they face by improving employee evaluation of the Groupʼs CSR management initiatives in Satisfied 21% Satisfied corporate sustainability, including corporate governance, awareness and cultivating an organizational culture that is Mostly 41% “1. Features of the Takuma Groupʼs approach to CSR satisfied 50% Mostly risk management, and compliance. I reviewed the Takuma characterized by free and open communication. Going satisfied management.” An old expression says that it takes a decade 37% CSR Report 2018 from that perspective, and Iʼd like to forward, I hope to see Takuma continue activities such as 36% to build a castle, but only one day to destroy it. In that introduce some of its features as I see them. these. spirit, there is no shortage of scandals that threaten to The ﬁrst feature is corporate governance. At its regular Q3 Which items were you interested in? (Select up to 3.) undermine the trust that organizations have built up over general meeting of shareholders in June 2016, the company time. Corporate governance, risk management, and Business Development 48% transitioned to a corporate structure with an auditing 2. Areas where Takuma can do more compliance together provide a foundation for management Message from Top Management Takuma Group 11th Medium-Term 43% committee, an organization that was newly established in that is a prerequisite for robust corporate activities. Going Management Plan ̶ An Overview 34% Feature: Striving to Coexist with Local the revised Companies Act, and it acted voluntarily to Currently, experts are predicting composite natural forward, we will pursue initiatives in these areas with a Communities 33% disasters with far-reaching regional consequences such as a Business Summary 22% establish a Human Resources & Remuneration Advisory sense of urgency both to live up to stakeholdersʼ CSR Activities for the Future 14% Committee. This decision was a pioneering one that was Nankai megathrust earthquake. The Takuma Group has expectations and requirements and to achieve sustainable The Environment 9% presumably intended as an institutional design change to formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) to address the growth for the Group. Corporate Information 9% enhance the oversight function of the Board of Directors risks posed by such events. I believe that the effectiveness Professor Takano also offered valuable insights with Human Rights and Labor Practices 9% and to facilitate free and vigorous discussion. of the BCP can be enhanced if the company conducts regard to enhancing the business continuity plan (BCP) Financial Data 7% The second feature is compliance structures. Takuma has regular crisis simulation training going forward in which it and addressing signiﬁcant risks in our global businesses in Outside Expert Opinion 6% established a Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization, practices implementing its BCP and makes improvements “2. Areas where Takuma can do more.” We will strive to Contribution to Society 6% to those aspects of the plan that prove problematic. Group Company CSR Activities 4% and the Group as a whole practices the PDCA cycle for build tenacious business and management foundations Group Company CSR Topics 4% managing major risks. Members of the organization are In addition, the Takuma Groupʼs 12th Medium-Term that can withstand future environmental changes while Consumer Issues 3% responsible for education and awareness-raising in their Management Plan calls for the company to actively develop cultivating an ESGand SDG-driven perspective. The Takuma Group Network 3% respective departments, and they report regularly back to its businesses overseas. Global companies must take on We value Professor Takanoʼs observations and take them Corporate Governance 2% the division on the progress of those efforts. On the Group signiﬁcant risks due to high civil penalties and ﬁnes often seriously, and I would request stakeholdersʼ continued Participation in the Community 2% level, the Takuma Group Coordinating Committee for levied overseas in areas such as data protection, bribery support and encouragement as we work to practice CSR Fair Business Practices 2% Compliance & CSR Promotion facilitates awareness-raising prohibition, and antitrust law as well as legal systems that management and enhance our CSR Report. 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% activities such as employee education. It is apparent that apply across borders. By adding these topics to its already the committee has identiﬁed issues such as the extensive employee education programs, I believe Takuma Antimonopoly Act, export control, and harassment as will be able to develop into an organization that is even ● Editorial Policy ● Data Collection Period signiﬁcant risks, and that itʼs working to spread awareness more capable of developing its businesses in the future. We have prepared this document as a CSR From April 1, 2017, to March 31, 2018, in principle. through frequent employee education programs. I believe that the Takuma Group is currently Report that details our CSR activities. In addition, some activities in FY2018 are included. The third feature is the cycle used to assess the extent to implementing a sophisticated program of compliance and ● Publisher and Contact for Inquiries ●Coverage which compliance and CSR awareness have spread CSR activities. Going forward, I expect to see the Group CSR Department, Compliance & CSR Promotion This report applies to Takuma Co., Ltd. and its afﬁliates in principle. throughout the organization and to improve that level of enhance its sustainability so that it can develop even Division ●Time of Issue penetration. Takuma began conducting a CSR Awareness further by exploring how to adjust its compliance and CSR TEL: +81-6-6483-2673 Current issue: July 2018 Outside Expert Survey in 2008, and it expanded the scope of the survey to activities to its expanding businesses and social changes. FAX: +81-6-6483-2620 Next issue: Scheduled for July 2019 include Group companies in 2013. By quantitatively Last issue: July 2017 Opinion 73 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 TAKUMA CSR Report 2018 74 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Website: http://www.takuma.co.jp/english/ This publication features an environmentally friendly, universal design that is made possible by the following initiatives and programs: ■Printing ■Paper ■Fonts MIX Paper from responsible sources C020841 Printed using “waterless Printed using environmentally Printed on FSCTM-certiﬁed Printed on paper made with This publication uses universal printing,” which does not friendly vegetable oil ink. paper (made from trees from wood from forest thinning. “ design fonts that are easy to generate hazardous waste. responsibly managed forests). Morino Chonai-Kai” read. (Forest Neighborhood Association)‒ Supporting sound forest management.
