1 CSR REPORT 2017 Committed CSR REPORT 2017 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Welcome 3 Corporate Governance 10 Economic Development 14 Community Development 26 Human Development 36 Environmental Protection 42 Experts' Corner 48 CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 3 We live today in an ever-changing world, and in a region impacted by • To be able to cater to individuals and corporations alike, we start extreme social and political events, as our company and colleagues from the top, working closely with public authorities that regulate continue to evolve to improve the trajectories and lives of the Lebanon’s financial landscape and building a sustainable infrastructure communities around us. for businesses and entrepreneurship to flourish. • Bank Audi is committed to continuously creating shareholder value During times of uncertainty, having a clearly defined Purpose matters. and providing quality financial information, complete with all key At Bank Audi, we are united behind common values that translate into indicators setting best practices in terms of governance, compliance a unique focus: to help our clients thrive and our communities prosper. and transparency. We remain constant in our belief that how we act is just as important as what we achieve. Our principles-led approach entrenches our values Our work on financial inclusion and education is very dear to me. I am of integrity, accountability and a commitment to diversity and inclusion very proud of the achievements our team made possible last year. The into the decisions we make every day. contribution towards the education of 413 outstanding students, our pro-family higher education program, the Global Money Week and We know we owe our success to the people, businesses, and communities our renowned Innovation Weekend, to name a few, are testimony who we have supported and partnered with for almost 190 years. That to the drive we want to generate when investing into the human success brings along a responsibility to make a significant and positive potential of our country. This year’s report carries examples of this contribution in return. incredible work in building future generations while providing them with the necessary protection generated from our various financial This is Bank Audi’s seventh CSR Report, detailing our sustainabilityliteracy projects. related initiatives over the past financial year covering economic, environmental and social issues. It represents another progressive step At Bank Audi, our motivation is relentless in backing people and businesses, forward in our journey. helping them grow beyond their potential, building confidence and Business exists to serve and as a financial institution, we are first and supporting communities to shape a more prosperous tomorrow. foremost an enabler creating happiness and social impact. This applies to the activities we have embraced, that revolve around our four-fold I again, take pride in bringing you Bank Audi’s 2017 CSR Report in a new commitment: empowering people, serving companies, supporting the dynamic and interactive format highlighting the humble achievements economy and creating shareholder value. made by the Bank in this field. • In our aim to make peoples’ lives better, and enhance their wellbeing, we created programs and solutions for education and green living, including environmental loans and special students facilities… • In a similar effort, yet from a different perspective, we strive to give substantial added value to the business world we are part of. 2017 Committed always, has witnessed a strengthening of our newly created SME business line with dedicated initiatives and programs in remote areas. Samir N. Hanna Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 4 WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT FROM US AND WHAT WE EXPECT FROM OURSELVES “Committed” is a pledge we made decades Our sustainability framework is based on what we expect from environmental impacts, Bank Audi has chosen to pledge towards 5 of ourselves, with a clear strategy materialised by our voluntary and firm the SDGs, namely Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), ago when Bank Audi was founded; a selfcommitment clearly portrayed through our five sustainability pillars: Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and imposed commitment to safeguard the best practice Corporate Governance, amplified Economic Development, Infrastructure (SDG 9), and Climate Action (SDG13). balanced Community Development, energised Human Development, community’s best interest; a consignment we and precautionary Environmental Protection. A privilege we are proud of within our practice of CSR is the regional made to future generations; an engagement (MENA) benchmark we now represent. The latter is gaged by our case to all our stakeholders; and a devotion to Our vision of sustainability, as an integral part of day-to-day operations, study which has become an efficient tool for mentoring students and is achieved by adhering to best practices and giving full priority to the companies alike, and by expert benchmark reports we contribute to, protect the environment as best we can. triple bottom line. In addition to abiding by global standards such as such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and ArabSustainability.com the UN Global Compact and its local steering network which we are committee members of, and the ISO 26000 of Social Responsibility, It is in this context that our case study, Bank Audi: Leading through our recent alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainability by MP Dr. Dima Jamali, was submitted to the 2017 EFMD as a lighthouse have guided us towards tangible and significant Case Writing Competition by Ivey Publishing, and won the “Corporate actions which are underway, in need of promotion, or initiated and Social Responsibility” category sponsored by the prestigious Kedge seeking partners. Business School. We have therefore enhanced our CSR strategy by linking corporate This recognition is all the more valuable since EFMD, the leading action to the universal language of sustainability, quantifying our positive international network for management development, has organised, impacts, creating shared value and leading relevant initiatives, engaging for over 30 years now, this annual case writing competition which aims our stakeholders through specifically targeted communications, aligning at encouraging and supporting the writing of new and innovative case private public partnerships that subscribe to the SDGs, tackling issues material, with a wide selection of categories focusing on specific issues that are relevant to our communities, seizing innovative opportunities and specific regions of the world. that contribute to the SDGs, and generally reducing sustainability risks. As a GRI Standards Pioneer, we are among the first to adopt the new GRI Focusing on what you can expect from us, it is worth mentioning that Standards: global best practice for sustainability reporting. In doing so, when referring to our influence on stakeholder assessments and the we demonstrate our full support for GRI’s mission to empower decisions decision taken thereafter to implement a wide scope of initiatives, that create social, environmental and economic benefits for everyone. the SDGs we tender towards span wider than the specific goals we have chosen to champion, taking into consideration that our impact This report will further explain how our investors care about Corporate effectively reaches 11 out of the 17 goals. One can also note the Social Responsibility and how we attract and retain engaged and inherent interconnectedness of the goals in question, and how actions productive employees. In a word – how “committed” we truly are! undertaken to reach a target within a goal may spill over to other targets in different goals. Last but not least, because ambition implies focusing on Responsibly, actions that deliver a long-term outcome with regards to the materiality of our issues and how significant these are to our economic, social and Hasmig G. Khoury Head of CSR CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 5 THE FIVE PILLARS OF OUR CSR STRATEGY CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION Ethical conduct Product portfolio Local community development Labour practices Emissions Compliance Economic contribution Local community support Diversity, inclusion and Effluents and waste equal opportunity Anti-corruption Indirect economic impacts Local community collaboration Energy consumption Training, education and Human rights Procurement practices Financial literacy Environmental loans talent development Environmental and Social Market presence Awareness on resources usage External human development Management System Product responsibility Infrastructure investments Inclusive and sustainable industrialisation Innovation MILESTONES FIGURE CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 6 OUR CSR MILESTONES Pledging to 5 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Launching “My Carbon Footprint” microsite across schools nationwide Updating GRI: Gold Community Adopting Environmental Published as case study by Conceiving a CSR policy & Social Management Ivery Publishing (Canada) System (ESMS) Crafting a CSR strategy Initial signatory of Lebanon Adhering to GRI: 2011 2013 2015 2017 Piloting ISO 26000 Climate Act Organisational Stakeholder Forming a CSR unit Devising 4 CSR pillars (OS) GRI Standards pioneer 2010 Establishing a CSR committee 2012 Adopting GRI G4 Guidelines: Core 2014 Committing to the UN Global Compact 2016 SME business line as empowerment to the nation’s economic infrastructure Updating to 5 CSR pillars Founding member in the UNGC National Steering Launching “Let’s Talk Furthering Committee Money” quiz institutionalisation Furthering stakeholder Accessibility improvements inclusiveness for physically disabled to Furthering Volunteer ATMs and branches Program Lebanon Climate Act Initiating the Global Climate Change Champion Money Week Pledging Goal leader to SDG 8 at UN GCNL Engaging millennials in our Corporate Volunteer Program through “Spring” CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 7 ABOUT BANK AUDI Founded in Lebanon in 1830, Bank Audi sal has sustained its solid Bank Audi, a leader among Lebanese banking groups, has further COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF growth, building a strong legacy of excellence in banking. Headquartered reinforced its position among the top 20 Arab banks. Main development BANK AUDI SAL in Lebanon, the Bank is currently present in 10 other countries located pillars for the Group are Lebanon, Egypt, Turkey and the Private Banking across Europe and the MENAT region, namely Switzerland, France, business line which, together, represent more than 90% of assets and (Chairman of the Board – Jordan, Egypt, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), Qatar, Monaco, earnings. Our performance stems from a comprehensive range of Mr. Samir N. HANNA General Manager, Group CEO) Turkey, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). financial services and a diversified market presence which represent the backbone of our sustained growth in spite of an overall challenging Dr. Marwan M. GHANDOUR (Vice-Chairman) Bank Audi is a joint stock company (“société anonyme libanaise”) with operating environment. The Bank’s recent results faithfully reflect how a diversified shareholder base that encompasses founding shareholders, sustainable strategies translate into long-term financial value. In 2017, Dr. Freddie C. Baz (Vice-Chairman) large regional investors, supra-national entities, international institutional Management succeeded in sustaining a high resilience of the Group in Mr. Marc J. Audi investors, a large number of private investors, as well as executives its capacity to withstand adverse developments in its markets of presence and employees. while reporting favourable growth in activity and net profits, in parallel Sheikha Mariam N. AL SABBAH to the reinforcement of the Bank’s fundamentals and of its financial The Bank offers a full range of products and services in Commercial flexibility. Concomitantly, our Executive Management remains determined Dr. Imad I. ITANI and Corporate Banking, Retail and Personal Banking, Private Banking to further advance environmental and social goals, and to sustain the and Investment Banking within a wide range of industries including financial and business achievements which contribute to socioeconomic Mr. Abdullah I. AL HOBAYB manufacturing, trading, contracting, real estate development, food and growth and financial stability. In the future, we will preserve our will beverage, education, media services, health and social services, and to remain leaders in sustainability, and to balance the healthy financial Dr. Khalil M. BITAR retailing among others. growth and returns to shareholders with equal commitment, drive and Ms. Sherine R. AUDI added value to stakeholders, and to society at large. Mr. Carlos A. OBEID Mr. Aristidis I. VOURAKIS Changes to the board of directors during the year 2017: (i) F ollowing his resignation, H.E. Mr. Raymond W. Audi was nominated as Honorary Chairman; and (ii) Sheikha Suad Hamad Saleh Al Homaizi, Board Member of Bank Audi since 1962 and co-founder of the Bank, passed away in August 2017. CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 8 OUR COMMITMENT STAKEHOLDERS’ PANEL TO THE SDGs The Global Goals indicate market gaps, development needs and OPEN COMMUNICATION AND CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ALL investment priorities for different countries. Issues addressed in the SDGs THE WAY provide a road map for businesses to seek opportunities and manage Recognising the value of each stakeholder, Bank Audi made sure to risks. The SDGs also provide vision for sustainable, long-term growth continuously engage its external and internal stakeholders, to seek their for private companies that balance the economic as well as social and critical input, and to monitor their expectations. Therefore, and similar environmental returns. to previous years, it held a special stakeholders’ panel reflecting its corporate values, and aimed at inviting stakeholders to discuss the Bank’s SDGs are the bedrock of future regulations and policies which inform and strategy and initiatives, and to identify important gaps and directions channel investment into priority sectors and restrict businesses that have for the future. This meeting generated a better understanding of our negative social or environmental returns. Aligning with the SDGs also stakeholders’ concerns and perspectives on key issues, and helped build deepens the value and impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) stronger relationships for more tangible business value creation. The efforts expended by businesses. SDGs allow companies to promote their selected stakeholder representatives included employees, Management, socially and environmentally responsible operations while opening new clients, suppliers, regulatory bodies, partners and competitors. Open communication and constructive dialogue all the way consumer and business-to-business channels. They also offer a common language to communicate the company’s commitment to sustainable The main takeaways revolved around: development with stakeholders. Finally, the SDGs give companies the • Furthering inclusiveness for persons with special needs. opportunity to shift to sustainability by providing a framework to align • Furthering communication on our CSR efforts. their strategies with the global development agenda. • Perceiving and tackling of human rights. • Promoting financial inclusion. As a leading financial institution, and although our sphere of influence • Supporting vocational training and human development in rural areas. impacts 11 of the 17 goals, Bank Audi has chosen to champion the • Furthering public/private collaboration. following SDGs: • Promoting education for the benefit of the community. • Conducting trainings to raise SMEs’ awareness of Financial Management in times of crisis. • Financing and marketing researches and innovations in the university sector. • Conducting campaigns to decrease corruption and access to information. • Setting clearer KPIs. CSR Committee Members • Promoting Corporate Governance and transparency, and their spillover effect to other companies. • Supporting start-ups, social entrepreneurs, MMEs and SMEs. • Undertaking environmental initiatives. Through this initiative, Bank Audi has engaged in an open and constructive dialogue with its stakeholders who were keen to share their concerns, thoughts and perspectives on its strategy and reporting. These valuable Throughout our report, relevant SDGs have been mapped within our insights will be used to identify material issues and refine the five strategic pillars and our material issues. Our committed sustainability Bank’s CSR strategy (read more). can be traced through our actions, our KPIs and the indicators we have carefully selected to assess and report upon. These SDGs integrate our economic, social and environmental ideals, and allow us to visualise impactful and sustainable progress in the areas of contribution and beyond due to overlaps. CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOME 9 CSR AT A GLANCE AT END 2017 CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION Environmental and Social 2.20% of Lebanon’s GDP > USD 5 million total 65% of successfully trained > USD 18 million in Management System (ESMS) contributions to employees environmental loans 3,402 employees our community: Complying with USD 1.5 million in training “Grow Green” USD 150 million in taxes USD 800,000 on health International Standards: for our employees when accounting for income > USD 2.9 million on Carbon Footprint monitoring ISO 26000 tax, municipal taxes, VAT, etc. humanitarian and social USD 9.9 million in UN Global Compact issues Climate change champions educational programs S ustainable Development 99% customer satisfaction > USD 1 million on culture Goals (SDGs) 311,120 beneficiaries SME business line USD 271,000 on sports Financial literacy Diversity, inclusion and equal Allowing local economies opportunity to prosper Financial independence 46% female employees Developing financial literacy Approximately 1 million beneficiaries Quality program Enhancing responsible lending Volunteer program: Fostering innovation 7,614 beneficiaries 392 volunteers > USD 6 million in indirect economic impact 51 products 56 services 205 publicly accessible ATMs 80 operational branches* > USD 500,000 in economic sponsorships * Excluding APB and Solifac branches. 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICAL CONDUCT COMPLIANCE HUMAN RIGHTS CSR REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 11 Our Corporate Governance practices and policies are at the heart of our business model and provide the accountability and transparency we consistently aspire to uphold in order to remain the most trusted banking partner in the eyes of both internal and external stakeholders. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ETHICAL CONDUCT As precautionary measures and as part of the Bank’s lending activities, MANAGEMENT SYSTEM every credit transaction above a certain amount is subject to a credit Our Code of Ethics and Conduct clearly upholds the principles of risk opinion which is issued by functions that are independent from the ONGOING IMPROVEMENTS TO STRENGTHEN OUR non-discrimination and of a violence and harassment-free workplace. It is credit originating functions. This helps ensure that the credit transactions MANAGEMENT OF E&S RISKS worth mentioning in this respect that no breaches or fines were reported. and resulting profile are compliant with the Bank’s credit policy and risk Throughout 2017, the Bank maintained its commitment to manage appetite. In line with the credit policy, the Bank refrains from financing Environmental and Social (E&S) risks in its Corporate and Commercial activities that are unethical and illegal, or that may present significant Banking activities by enhancing its Environmental & Social Management COMPLIANCE & ANTI-CORRUPTION potential negative impacts to the environment and / or which may result System (ESMS). Indeed, our ESMS has been subject to ongoing review in significant potential negative social impacts. In an environment where banking behaviour is under increasing and improvement since its inception in 2014. scrutiny, the Group continuously strives to keep its ethical standards In 2017, the Bank prioritised updating its ESMS procedures, taking beyond reproach. into consideration challenges experienced during implementation and HUMAN RIGHTS recommendations made by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Compliance risk, sanctions, taxes and capital markets have become to enhance the process. It is worth noting that the updates to the Bank’s significant and ongoing concerns for financial institutions, including The Bank endorses and supports internationally recognised principles ESMS procedures did not entail material changes to the system, but Bank Audi. under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which promotes global rather, provided a comprehensive review and improvement to the original respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without We are committed to combat money laundering and terrorism financing procedures in order to ensure that they remain relevant to the E&S risks distinction of race, colour, gender, language, religion, opinion, in order to avoid being involved directly or indirectly in transactions associated with the Bank’s portfolio. The updated procedures will be descent, or national or ethnic origin (know more). connected with the laundering of money derived from illegal activities, rolled out in 2018, and we believe that they will further strengthen our or the channelling of funds to be used for illicit purposes. As businesses, we need to demonstrate that we are aware of human rights. ESMS and generate better information and results. Clearly, human rights are a global issue. The concept of “due diligence” This firm commitment of the Group is the result of proper guidance was proposed and found to be a useful starting point for companies as SUSTAINABLE FINANCE and instructions on the part of the Group’s Board of Directors and they seek to integrate respect for human rights into their practices. Senior Management, and of the efforts and awareness of the Group employees. The latter are entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring Similarly, with the right to privacy, any company should know that it USD Total value of 17 new loans with that the Group operations are consistent with anti-money laundering has potential adverse impacts on this human right, whether it is from 20,566,880 environmental and/or social benefits financed during 2017 and counter-financing of terrorism laws and regulations, internal policies and procedures, the industry international best practices, as well as the handling data or from registering and using customer information. highest level of morality. 254 HIGHEST This culture of compliance with high ethical standards, as well as legal and Newly hired employees attended presentations on MARKET regulatory obligations which we are subject to, both in Lebanon and in the 123 929 SHARE human rights topics markets we serve, is fundamental to the preservation of our reputation 21.5% and integrity, and underlines one of our core guiding values: transparency. Managerial staff members attended a special training Bank Audi is therefore taking all necessary measures to comply with on “Decent Work for Domestic Workers” delivered 10 Employees Training hours BDL Energy various regulations including: attended trainings were spent on Incentives – by Equip, an NGO specialised in domestic workers on environmental environmental NEEREA loans Laws and regulations adopted by a governmental regulatory body. issues, and in partnership with the ILO topics/issues topics/issues Standards adopted by a self-regulatory body to which a business or entity has agreed to subject itself. Directives contained in our Compliance policies and Code of Ethics and Conduct. CSR REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 12 FOCUS GROUP PARTICIPATES IN “MY FAIR HOME” SEMINAR In line with the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Regional 2015-2020 Strategy and in coordination with the “Work in Freedom Program”, the CSR Unit organised the second phase of the “My Fair Home” seminar engaging 10 colleagues as part of a focus group. The campaign aims to elicit attitudinal and behavioural change among employers of domestic workers to ensure decent work, and falls under the principles of Human Rights. This seminar promotes the rights and duties of domestic workers and their employers, encouraging the latter to sign the “My Fair Home” pledge and commit to the principles of decent work. MR. MARC AUDI ADDRESSES GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK LEBANON CONFERENCE 2017 As part of the UN’s Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) Conference that was held on 10 October 2017 at the American University of Beirut, Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon, gave a speech highlighting the importance of tackling the economic, social, environmental and governance-related challenges of our time to achieve a better Lebanon by 2030. Mr. Audi confirmed the Bank’s commitment to social responsibility that’s truly engrained in the Bank’s DNA and now aligned to the pledged SDGs, namely Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) and Climate Action (SDG 13). The multi-stakeholder forum was attended by 400 key Lebanese public and private sector participants and speakers. It highlighted the progress the GCNL is achieving by continuously attracting more members which reached 150 to date and evolving social and environmental issues in Lebanon. Global Compact Network Lebanon Conference: Prof. Dima Jamali, Mr. Marc Audi, MP Ghassan Moukheiber, Ms. Rana Salhab A HEARTFELT DEDICATION TO OUR LONGTIME CHAIRMAN, RAYMOND AUDI A LEADER – AN INFLUENCER – AN INSPIRATION Leadership is not about a title or a position. It is about impact, influence and inspiration. Impact involves We can only wish “Monsieur Raymond” the best, healthiest and most peaceful of retirements. We cannot getting results. Influence is about spreading the passion. Inspiration is the reflection of a leader’s spirit in thank him enough for the dedication, passion and enthusiasm he showed over the past 60 years. He is and his team and customers. Coming across a leader who has all these attributes is a rare find indeed. Yet there remains a main pillar of the Bank, the founder of its social responsibility, and we promise to uphold the can be no dispute that Raymond Audi has mastered all and more. And so, it is with melancholy that we same values and culture in his absence as we did in his presence. It is our pleasure and our responsibility to saw him step down from his long-standing position as Chairman of the Board of Directors at Bank Audi follow through in his inspiring footsteps and aim towards an even brighter future. and retire from his corporate responsibilities in April 2017. He will, henceforth, serve as Honorary Chairman in order to devote more time to his family and personal life. Raymond Audi’s legacy at Bank Audi spans almost 60 years, over half a century as a member and then Chairman of the Board. The impact of his leadership has been incontestably strong, proven by the Bank’s rise to become the first in Lebanon and have a solid, widespread offshore presence. However, his impact was mostly felt by us, his employees who, in Raymond Audi’s eyes, are an extension of the Audi family, his own. Over the long years, we have gotten used to seeing him tour between our offices, interacting with us, asking about our work, our welfare and our families. The personal bond that he took the time to forge with his “bank family” might be exactly why Human Capital is one of Bank Audi’s core values. Raymond Audi’s influence seeps well beyond the constraints of a single industry. From banking to real estate, from arts to philanthropy, many people might take a guess at what Raymond Audi’s real passion is. But, for us, it is very much apparent: the human element in every form. He has dedicated much of his life and resources to sponsoring up-and-coming artists and writers, so one would say his passion has driven others to pursue theirs. Along his extensive journey to the very top of the business world, Raymond Audi never forgot his roots. Saida, his coastal hometown and family origin, is never away from his mind. Lebanon’s culture as a whole holds a paramount place in his heart. Bank Audi’s core values were derived from how our longtime chairman went about business and life in general: his love for Innovation and arts, his perseverance to preserve Saida’s Heritage, his reputation for Transparency in all his pursuits, his appreciation for Human Capital, his powerful and strong Civic Role whether publicly or anonymously, and finally, the Quality of all his work, from projects he started to those he sponsored or envisioned for the future. Our Chairmen Mr. Raymond Audi passing the flame to Mr. Samir Hanna 14 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS PROCUREMENT PRACTICES PRODUCT PORTFOLIO MARKET PRESENCE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALISATION CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 15 Consistent with our philosophy of Creating Shared Value, we have continued to magnify our social impact by leveraging the full power of our business to work with different stakeholders and contribute to a more resilient and stable economy. By creating manifold economic opportunities, providing access to WORLD’S BEST BANK AWARDS 2018: THE MIDDLE EAST finance and innovation, and adapting to the needs of the marketplace Global Finance May 2018 and the local economy, we have made significant strides under this pillar. Bank Audi, the leading bank in terms of assets, deposits, loans and equity, is Global Finance’s choice for best bank. Samir Hanna, Bank Audi group CEO, says: “We are pleased to be awarded Best Bank in Lebanon ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION again. We believe the bank’s performance in 2017 strengthened the Our economic contributions also go a long way towards stimulating group’s financial standing, reinforced its financial flexibility, sustained entrepreneurship and job creation through various tailored initiatives its profitability in spite of tough operating conditions, and reinforced targeting SMEs. the group’s leading position in the domestic market and among major regional banking groups at large.” Bank Audi has a presence in 11 countries. Its earnings rose 13% last 3,402 2.20% year, with 45% of the total coming from outside of Lebanon. Earnings of Bank Audi’s Turkish subsidiary, Odea Bank, rose by 29%. The ratio of doubtful loans was 3% for Bank Audi Lebanon, 1.5% for Bank Audi Total number of employees Total contributions of Egypt and 4.7% for Odea Bank. Bank Audi’s return on average common Lebanon’s GDP equity was 13.4% in 2017. Bank Audi Egypt completed the implementation of a capital-markets STIMULATING THE USE OF THE LEBANESE LIRA solution in 2017, while Odea Bank enhanced its treasury-trading In this endeavour, the “Loubnani” card is conceived to match the solution to improve its efficiency. The group worked to modernize its unique lifestyle of the Lebanese people, whereby its holders benefit core banking systems and Bank Audi Lebanon expects to introduce a from an extensive reward program. “Our ultimate priority is to adapt new core system toward the end of this year. to the routine of our customers, align to their needs with the use of local or international currencies, and reward them for their loyalty with attractive privileges.” “ Bank Audi is proud to be a Lebanese financial institution and encourages the use of its local currency. Grace Eid, Head of Retail Banking ” SME BANKING Bank Audi launched the small and medium-sized enterprises business THE “PREMISES LOAN” CAMPAIGN line (SME Banking) in 2016, aiming to support this large segment by offering a wide range of products and services that answer its various In yet another step to support SMEs and help them own, build or 60% business needs, be it lending programs to help those companies expand their premises, Bank Audi also launched the “Premise Loan” 5,570 BENEFITTED FROM OUR campaign with a special offering. Our premises loan helps SMEs CLIENTS LENDING PROGRAMS IN 2017 finance their daily business needs such as purchasing goods, raw SERVED benefit from various financing programs to purchase ready or under To develop, grow or materials, paying invoices, rent or staff salaries, or to finance their construction premises, or even to expand or build their own premises. sustain their businesses business growth by investing in new machinery, equipment, premises or patent rights, or even renovating and changing office furniture. The loan was launched during the third quarter of the year, with The offering also includes non-lending programs which support SMEs a special bundle of benefits. in their daily banking transactions by granting them free operations GROW MY BUSINESS COMPETITION (read more) and preferential treatment when benefitting from a business loan. Today, specialised SME business centres are set up across Lebanon Similar to previous years, a new edition of the “Grow My Business” with highly trained staff. competition rewarded 3 teams with a total amount of LBP 95 million. During 2017, several initiatives were implemented to further support SMEs and help them grow and sustain their businesses: THE “LBP 1 TRILLION CAMPAIGN” Bank Audi allocated LBP 1 trillion to this segment at a reduced interest rate (7%) for the first year and for loan amounts of up to LBP 150 million. The Bank has carefully studied the prices and reduced them to lessen the burden of heavy interest rates and instalments. This initiative aimed at supporting SMEs and contributing to GDP growth while creating new job opportunities and reducing the loan dollarization ratio. THE “ROADSHOWS” To raise more awareness in all Lebanese areas (rural and urban), the Bank organised 10 roadshows which were attended by more than 5,000 attendees (Bank Audi clients and non-clients). The purpose behind this initiative was to reinforce Bank Audi’s close position to SMEs, no matter how far or small. The impact of these roadshows was measured by the increase of the business generated in each region, and the number of served clients from various sizes and sectors. This initiative emphasised the Bank’s dedication to SMEs who play a major role in the development of the national economy. SME Launch CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 17 WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS FOR THE WIN SME Team Present LLWB Entrepreneurs with Products that Meet Their Business Needs On the occasion of International Women’s Day and based on our culture of equality and fairness to both genders, Bank Audi, highlighting its commitment to the SDG 5 Gender Equality, collaborated with the Lebanese League for Women in Business (LLWB) to offer women entrepreneurs an exclusive chance to discover our wide range of SME products, tailored to meet small and medium-sized enterprises’ various business needs. LLWB is a socio-economic association bringing together professional women by providing them with a platform to share their personal challenges and experiences, to develop competencies and skills, and to network and exchange expertise. A gathering was held in Bank Audi Plaza on 9 March and attended by 45 ladies from the LLWB from all around Lebanon. The attendees were welcomed to the conference by Mrs. Asmahan Zein, President of LLWB, who gave a short presentation on the foundation’s activities and programs for 2017. She mentioned that this collaboration was due to Bank Audi’s renowned support to entrepreneurs. Mrs. Joyce Abou Rizk, Head of SME Business Delivery at Bank Audi, presented the SME Banking offering and the flexible total wallet solutions designed at the Bank to answer SMEs’ lending and non-lending business needs. Furthermore, Mr. Hassan Sabbah, Head of SME Banking at Bank Audi, explained about the SME redefined business line and the dedicated SME business centres staffed with highly trained employees. In terms of empowering women, results of the Bank’s strategy show an increased female presence in our client-base. SME FORUM 2017 The Lebanese SME Forum organised by the Ministry of Economy and Trade was the first of a series of yearly thematic events focusing on the SME sector and involving relevant players on the national and regional levels. Our Group Chief Economist and Head of Research, Dr. Marwan Barakat, stated that “SME Banking is increasingly becoming a strategic issue for Lebanese banks, supported by the various concerned public parties, with SME loans representing 16% of total loans in Lebanon, double the regional average of 8%, but well below the advanced countries average of 26%”. Dr. Barakat also spoke about the recent Bank Audi SME program, supported by the IFC, which revolves around extending LBP 1,000 billion in loans, contributing to real GDP growth, job creation and de-dollarization of bank lending. With its participation in the event, Bank Audi once again proves its commitment to enhance synergies between the SME environment’s main stakeholders in Lebanon in order to forge a better business environment. Women entrepreneurs for the win: Mrs. Asmahan Zein 3 CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 18 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GROW MY BUSINESS 6TH EDITION AUGMENTAL DOUBLE PARTNERSHIP WITH BEIRUT TRADERS ASSOCIATION AND MIT ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF RURAL CAPACITIES 2017 witnessed the sixth edition of the “Grow My Business” competition, An educational technology application initially targeting middle (ADR) an initiative by the Beirut Traders Association (BTA), in collaboration to high school students where course material is adapted to each We sustained our support to the Association for the Development of with the MIT Enterprise Forum – Pan Arab Region, and in partnership students’ learning abilities using artificial intelligence and augmented Rural Capacities (ADR) by contributing to its programs of microfinance with Bank Audi. Building on the success of the 5 previous editions, the reality. It features adaptive learning, an educational assistant, and is loans extended to the underprivileged at significantly reduced interest objective of the competition was, more than ever, to continue helping fully interactive. rates. ADR is a Lebanese non-profit organisation established in 1998 businesses expand and grow in the right direction. This is achieved with a mission to empower and integrate marginalised people through by inviting Lebanese entrepreneurs and SME owners to develop plans sustainable economic and social development by facilitating access BILDITS which boost their businesses forward. to financial training, tools and services, and by supporting incomeLike every year, the jury shortlisted the top 25 candidates who benefitted Provides a fun and authentic construction experience by letting you generating projects. Beneficiaries are fishermen, farmers, small from a two-day workshop organised by Silicon Valley experts and build your house with your own hands thanks to a miniature building entrepreneurs, women and the youth from the most impoverished focused on how to draft a successful business plan. construction kit that introduces the real process of construction. The areas in Lebanon. These plans were then submitted to a selected jury who chose user uses the tools and modular pieces provided in the kit and follows During 2017, our program outreach was 812 SME beneficiaries who the 10 best candidates for a final assessment through a series of simple instructions to build a scaled model while going through an received loans for a total amount of USD 1,768,425 of which 37.5% oral presentations. In light of these enriching sessions, the jury authentic process covering all the real-life steps such as constructing were women entrepreneurs – 304 beneficiaries with loans amounting announced the three winners of the “Grow My Business 2017” steel structures, installing formworks, pouring cement, building to USD 648,126. Young borrowers aged between 18 and 35 years competition: Augmental, Bildits and Sympaticus, who received prizes of masonry walls, painting and other. The pieces in the kit are modular, accounted for 42% and received loans for USD 681,758. LBP 50,000,000, LBP 30,000,000 and LBP 15,000,000 respectively, all which means you have the freedom to dream up, design and build as courtesy of Bank Audi, during a special ceremony. creatively as possible. ADR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of beneficiaries 365 327 477 523 812 SYMPATICUS Provides access to mental health services through a self-help mobile ASSOCIATION MAAK app for treating anxiety or depression facilitated by therapists via We likewise extended our support to Association Maak (NGO), video consultations. The solution addresses problems such as benefitting 43 families who were granted microfinance loans across stigma, high costs per therapy session, and the ambiguity related to various economic sectors including farming, cattle and agriculture, treatment duration. tailoring, snacks, beauty services, and even scholarships (school and university). This went hand in hand with extending moral, technical and spiritual support to the various beneficiary households. CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 19 “The purpose of this competition is to give a tangible added value to small and medium-sized companies, to uplift the professional standards of the commercial sector as a whole, and to contribute to the sustainable development of the national economy. Mr. Nicolas Chammas, Chairman of the Beirut Traders Association ” “Bank Audi’s involvement in “Grow My Business” is part of its solid conviction that SMEs are the engine of the Lebanese economy. By increasing the overall amount of rewards and by choosing to reward the first three winners instead of merely the first one, we have decided to give bigger opportunities and open even more horizons to participants. This is yet another indicator that we spare no efforts to reward solid ideas and give them the chance to materialise and bloom. Mr. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon ” “Now in its 6th edition, MITEF Pan Arab is pleased with the growth this competition is achieving year over year. With the help of our partners, Bank Audi and BTA, as well as with the support of the Lebanese ecosystem, we are ensuring that these teams become Lebanon’s success stories. We believe in our entrepreneurs and their innovation, and we are here to guide them and support them throughout their journey. Mrs. Hala Fadel, Chair of the MIT Enterprise Forum – Pan Arab Region ” Our three winners of the 2017 edition of Grow My Business 3 CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 20 THE THIRD ANNUAL EUROMONEY LEBANON CONFERENCE LEBANESE DIASPORA ENERGY (LDE): JOHANNESBURG, MEXICO The aim behind the LDE is to discuss economic transnational cooperation, The event brought together over 300 high-level government officials, AND BEIRUT as well as investment opportunities and the role of banks and financial investors, financiers, business leaders and many of Lebanon’s leading Though our country is a small one, our children are spread out far and associations among Lebanese entrepreneurs. “Lebanese communities institutions to explore new opportunities and examine Lebanon’s wide across the globe. Known as the Lebanese Diaspora, individuals abroad have always been vibrant, dynamic and prosperous, contributing changing role in the new global financial landscape. and families with Lebanese heritage have made their homes in far off to the development and progress of the countries in which they reside,” In the light of the appointment of the new administration, the nations such as South America and Africa. In the spirit of celebrating said H.E. Mr. Gebran Bassil, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants. economic impact of domestic political stability, the challenges still the native Lebanese spirit in us all, the Lebanese Diaspora Energy (LDE) Furthermore, just like LDE 2016 held previously in São Paulo, the Africa facing Lebanon’s economy and in particular the prospects for the initiative was launched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Edition intended to motivate both residents and expatriates to stay financial sector were discussed. Members of Bank Audi participated in the LDE, aiming to discover connected and celebrate their joint heritage. Throughout the day, the audience heard first-hand from business the needs, horizons, and potential of new investment domains in the Several discussion panels were set up at the LDE, focusing on: insights leaders, experts and commentators such as Dr. Freddie Baz and Dr. various markets where the conferences were held. into the Lebanese Diaspora and its investments in Africa, the economic Marwan Barakat on the challenges and opportunities for growth. The Dr. Marwan Barakat, Group Chief Economist and Head of Research landscape in Africa, trading to manufacturing to IT to health care opening panel set the scene with a global macro outlook discussion, at Bank Audi, discussed Lebanon’s recent presidential elections and and innovation, the banking sector in Lebanon, prominent sectors in examining the new global political-economic paradigms and what they cabinet unity formation, which would hopefully improve the country’s Lebanon, and the Lebanese services industry. mean to Lebanon’s economy. risk profile and lift its recently economic situation. He noted that while Leading local and international players analysed the growing challenges exist, opportunities surpass the risks and threats. opportunities in Lebanon from the development of its hydrocarbon BEIRUT INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE FORUM AND EXHIBITION sector to how Lebanon can scale its ‘super-service’ economic model with (BIFEX) a focus on re-energizing the tourism and hospitality sectors. The Governor of the Banque du Liban, HE Mr. Riad Salamé, outlined on his policies, strategy and plans for Lebanon’s financial sector and the “LDE is an opportunity for the Bank and all attending Lebanese financial institutions to enrich The BIFEX is a yearly event that the Lebanese Franchise Association (LFA) organises each year. The Forum presents new ideas, technologies and innovations that Lebanese and Arab companies need to enhance. wider economy. their immigrant customer relations; it also opens possibilities for acquiring new customers and ARAB ECONOMIC FORUM building partnerships across different fields such as Under the patronage of Lebanese Prime Minister H.E. Mr. Saad Al Hariri, Al-Iktissad Wal-Aamal organised the “Arab Economic Forum” (AEF), in trade, industry, and services. For years, Bank Audi collaboration with the Central Bank of Lebanon, the Association of Banks has expanded its presence, targeting immigrants in in Lebanon, and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group. This year was the 25th edition of the forum and Bank Audi’s presence was marked with an impressive corporate stand reflecting the Bank’s innovative, technology-driven image. Africa, Latin America, and Australia. Mr. Joseph Kesrouani, Assistant General Manager and Head of Business Development at Bank Audi ” The Silver Anniversary of the AEF attracted a large number of senior officials, Corporate Banking and investment leaders, and experts from Lebanese Diaspora Energy Conference at Beirut several Arab and foreign countries. This edition was particularly important as it comes in the light of the major challenges facing the region and its economies, due to the political climate and security instability in some countries, the decline in oil prices, the impact of economic growth, the investment climate, and the decline in employment opportunities. This year’s edition tackled issues of post-war economy and austerity; economic visions and the challenges of reform and investment; privatisation, partnerships, and the role of private investment; attracting funds; and the role of banks and capital markets. CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 21 INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS OGERO LAUNCHES THE 600 MBPS HIGH SPEED INTERNET AT BANK AUDI NOVO BRANCH, ABC VERDUN In collaboration with the Ministry of Telecommunications and in partnership with Bank Audi, a ground-breaking event in the history of Lebanese telecommunications was witnessed: the launch of Ogero’s first high speed internet. Under the patronage of H.E. Mr. Jamal Al Jarrah, Minister of Telecommunications, and in presence of Mr. Imad Kreidieh, Chairman of Ogero, and Mr. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon, ABC Verdun hosted the live demonstration of Ogero’s first of a kind high-speed connection of over 600Mbps at Bank Audi’s Novo branch. This connection upgrade will provide the Bank’s clientele with direct assistance from a Bank Audi operator through live high definition video streaming when using Novo or any of Bank Audi’s smart ATMs at ABC Verdun. Nokia and Ogero also demonstrated new fixed network technologies during the event, which included the Nokia’s G. fast solution, Nokia’s VDSL2 vectoring solution, and Nokia’s copper-based Vplus technology. The event gathered public figures from different sectors who got to experience the high speed internet in action and witness live demonstrations of it. Constantly embracing new challenges, Ogero hopes to achieve higher levels in Digital Technology, aiming towards both personal and corporate use, in order to raise the bar higher and equip Lebanon with a solid telecom infrastructure. Internal infrastructure business USD investments made in 2017 will impact our 6,861,500 support in services to the communities that are in the direct vicinity The launch of Ogero’s first high speed internet under the patronage of H.E. Mr. Jamal Al Jarrah 3 CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 22 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY & MARKET PRESENCE encourages all Spring customers to become “Spring Ambassadors”, gaining valuable sales experience, earning commissions and benefitting SALE OF ELECTRONIC PAYMENT AND CARD SERVICES ACQUIRING of flexible working hours. AND PROCESSING ACTIVITY In June 2017, the Bank completed the sale of its Electronic Payment and 24% RURAL REMOTE AREAS LABOUR DAY Card Services (EPCS) processing and acquiring activity to M1 Financial On 1 May 2017, for the occasion of Labour Day, 97 customers with modest Technologies (Holding) sal, a subsidiary of M1 Group, thereby adopting payrolls were randomly selected from across the Bank’s 78 branches, a common practice in big corporations, particularly in this sector. The BRANCHES 83% and given an extra reason to celebrate the day. The lucky winners were transaction was structured as a purchase by M1 Financial Technologies MADE ACCESSIBLE exempted of one monthly instalment of their Personal Loans at the Bank. of all of the shares of Areeba sal, to which Bank Audi transferred its TO THE DISABLED EPCS business and with which the Bank entered into a service level agreement for the provision of these services. PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Given that payment technologies are evolving at a fast pace, and in light of the Lebanese market’s maturity, the Bank decided to spin off 13% Bank Audi is engaged with multi-lateral and sell the EPCS to cope with the constant evolution and to cater for a larger audience. This operation aimed at broadening Bank Audi’s RURAL REMOTE AREAS agencies and export credit agencies such as business horizons, allowing further focus on business development and the European Investment Bank, the Overseas sales, while enhancing customer service and streamlining all operations 47% Private Investment Corporation, the World between retail products and cards. HANDICAP FRIENDLY ATMs chassis ATMs 85% Bank, Sanad Fund, among others. APPRECIATING 25 YEARS OF CUSTOMER LOYALTY were lowered MADE ACCESSIBLE We also have a strategic partnership with the International Finance The 25 years loyalty recognition has been Bank Audi’s tradition since 2013: TO THE DISABLED Corporation, which aims to promote long-term financing to increase, an appreciation gift is offered to our customers for their loyalty. This diversify and lengthen the funding base for small and medium scale year, 800 individuals and 70 businesses were recognised and offered projects in specific targeted industries, and in renewable energy and bonsai plants. energy efficiency. Other programs like the Arab Trade Finance Program aim to promote trade between Arab countries and enhance the SPRING ACCOUNT productivity and competitiveness of Arab producers and exporters. These Surveys Conducted to Measure Customer Satisfaction as per Our Bank Audi’s account for young adults aged 18 to 24 rolled out new relationships support the Bank’s growth plans and the development of Quality Program Specifications features inspired by the current market trends and the power of its key regional subsidiaries and business market segments. clients in September 2017. The new campaign, “Don’t Just Make a PERCENTAGE SATISFACTION Choice, Make the Right Choice with the Spring Account”, promotes Surveying Tool 2014 2015 2016 2017 a new redemption and loyalty program, development workshops, CSR USD (89% of our total Phone survey (on daily basis 95% 97% 97% 99% initiatives, and many other benefits. Spring customers now have an array of free, interactive and out-of-the–box workshops to choose from, 180 million+ procurement budget) spent on local suppliers to assess customer satisfaction) that will boost their soft skills, namely their communication, problem In-branch survey (on daily basis solving, leadership and creative thinking know-how. As of today, about 83% 88% 90% 90% via the “Happy or Not” tool) 200 individuals attended the workshops of which 2 were in partnership INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALISATION with Injaz, an NGO that inspires and equips youth with the skills and (read more) mind-set needed to become the entrepreneurs and business leaders of tomorrow in their local communities. Since CSR is one of our main pillars, Spring customers can participate in different CSR activities and give back to the community. In line with our mission to prepare young adults to enter the business world, the Bank CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 23 INNOVATION Morocco, Qatar, Egypt, Oman, Nigeria, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia. These ARABNET BEIRUT students had excelled in their countries, which gave them the chance LEBANON’S MOST RECENT INNOVATIVE EVENT The strategy of building a cashless society, which was launched in 2013, of enrolling in the Imagine Cup competition. The teams displayed their With Innovation as its core theme, Arabnet Beirut witnessed its 8th was pursued in 2017 through various incentives. innovative solutions before Microsoft judges and Mr. Gebran Gebran, edition on 21 and 22 February 2017. Arabnet is Lebanon’s leading MOBILE BANKING Bank Audi’s Head of Customer Experience – COO Office, who chose 6 conference on digital business in the Levant region. This year’s conference ONLINE & BANKING APPLICATION winning projects from among the contestants. The competition provides brought together over 1,300 corporate executives, marketing industry opportunities for students from across all disciplines to team up and leaders, entrepreneurs and investors to discuss the latest trends in the use their creativity, passion and knowledge of technology to create digital sector, and opportunities available for companies working in that AUDI ON-LINE AND THE BANK’S MOBILE applications, games and integrated solutions that can change the way space. It is also the ideal gathering for leaders looking to explore and BANKING HAVE: we live, work and play. support digital innovation. 97,000 30K Several speakers participated in the closing ceremony, including H.E. Mr. Saad Hariri, Prime Minister of Lebanon; Elizabeth Richard, US Being a leader in innovation, Bank Audi was Arabnet’s Gold sponsor. This gave the Bank the chance to replicate, on a simpler scale, the success Registered users Average daily logins Ambassador to Lebanon; Mrs. Hoda Younan, Microsoft Lebanon witnessed at Banque Du Liban’s “Accelerate 2016”. Under the slogan 65K Average EYE-CATCHING, USERFRIENDLY AND HIGHLY Country Manager; and Mr. Jean Traboulsi, Head of Marketing & Communications at Bank Audi. The ceremony was the culmination of “Reshaping the Financial Industry through Innovation and Technology”, the Bank set up a branded stand to interact with attendees and give transactions/month USEFUL FEATURES! a series of national final events, organised by Microsoft subsidiaries in them a taste of its services’ user experience. Bank representatives and countries across the region, which brought together the brightest young Senior Managers visited the stand over the course of two days. Novot minds to showcase the power of innovation. also joined the team at the stand, and the Omni channel, which was first In his speech during the closing ceremony, Mr. Traboulsi noted that Bank launched at “Accelerate”, was also presented to the public. Audi has always been a fervent supporter of innovation – one of its core values – and is committed to actively support SMEs, incubators and entrepreneurial support organisations across the MENA region. He added, regarding the MENA region, “We should definitely not miss out on today’s digital revolution and what it entails, in terms of technological novelties”, pointing out how crucial it is for institutions like Bank Audi and Microsoft to join efforts in order to drive this movement forward. Finally, the 6 winning teams will head to Seattle, Washington, USA, to represent the region at the 15th Imagine Cup World finals in July, where the top 3 winning teams will be chosen and awarded USD 100,000, USD 25,000 and USD 15,000, respectively. Arabnet Beirut Mobile Banking MICROSOFT’S IMAGINE CUP MEA Hosted by Microsoft Corp., this annual competition brings together young technologists from around the globe. Whether it is building a game, designing an app, or launching a project, Microsoft Imagine helps students develop their ideas and boldly bring them to life. This year’s Imagine Cup MEA finals took place in Beirut, where 17 special projects were presented by 47 innovative students representing Lebanon, Microsoft’s imagine cup MEA Jordan, West Bank and Gaza, Turkey, Pakistan, Kuwait, Bahrain, UAE, BANK AUDI: TRANSFORMATION WITH TRUST APR. 10, 2017 – EFMA Raffy Karamanian, Assistant Head of Group Retail Banking (Group How are you making sure you deliver the experience different Abou-Zeinab: “Bank Audi is known to be a leading step-change delivery channels specialist) and Dania Abou-Zeinab, Assistant Head customers expect? in innovation. Others on the market are constantly mimicking the of Group Retail Banking (Group product development specialist) at solutions we introduce, trying to catch up with our level of technology. Abou-Zeinab: “When it comes to experience, differences among Bank Audi, discuss the Bank’s role as a pioneer in digital transformation. Innovation is among Bank Audi’s values, and has always been customers depend on their level of attachment to the branch which prioritised and nurtured through the years.” is the core of a personal experience. In the case of self-directed What do you think banks will focus on in terms of digital customers, they work autonomously but may seek face-to-face branch Where do you see Bank Audi in two to three years’ time? transformation over the next few years? interactions if not met digitally. The biggest challenge lies in preserving Karamanian: “There are new technologies on the way, new personalisation, transparency, safety, and guidance attributes in the Karamanian: “The banking landscape is evolving rapidly. Technology innovations and many new services for customers to enjoy. digital experience.” and connectivity have become an essential part of everyone’s daily Furthermore, regulators have a major role to play. Bank Audi will life. Over the past years, alternative channels and migration of Karamanian: “Moving further towards digital banking, we are adding always have customers at the centre, with their requirements being transactional banking to cost-effective channels have played an flexibility and convenience; however, not at the cost of trust which met by multiple parties instead of just one.” important role.” is vital to Bank Audi. In the conventional model, trust is developed Abou-Zeinab: “I would like to stress the importance of role from a history of interpersonal interactions and communication. In Abou-Zeinab: “Today, banks’ offerings are quite different of what transparency and compliance play, despite the fact that they may slow digital teams and remote services, establishing trust can be more they used to be 10 to 20 years ago. Customer behaviour is constantly down the digital transformation process. At the end of the day, going complicated. The main 3 elements to build trust in virtual interactions evolving into a more sophisticated, tech-savvy and self-directed digital while being flexible and convenient would still necessitate are based on ability, integrity and benevolence. We are integrating conduct which makes it inevitable for banks to evolve. At Bank Audi, being transparent. Compliance has to be at the heart of our strategy, these components within our processes and training programs to for instance, we are building ourselves around our customers’ needs keeping in mind how the industry has evolved and the new regulations reflect them in our servicing model and deliver a positive experience by adopting an innovative segmentation approach and expanding currently in the pipeline.” contrary to customer expectations.” our digital landscape. In response to a successful track record of What is your view of the longer term? introducing new technologies, we are leveraging our omni-channel for Bank Audi is recognised as one of the most innovative banks several uses in Lebanon and other regions, hence minimising branch in the region and an early adopter of new technologies. Is Karamanian: “Over the next 10 years, the entire financial sector need and facilitating the customer’s relationship with the Bank.” there room now to put your investment into technology into has an important role to play for both on-board and the un-banked return or is there still a way to go? population – which represents a large share on our side of the world, Where does Bank Audi stand now with digital transformation, while also providing advisory services to help people understand and and what will you focus on in the next few years? Abou-Zeinab: “Investing in technology may be driven by different shape their financial goals and portfolio.” objectives, be it changing customer behaviour or setting the trend; Karamanian: “Bank Audi’s digital transformation journey however, at the end of the day, they all converge towards increasing Abou-Zeinab: “Orientation is a key role financial stakeholders need began several years ago – we were pioneers in introducing Novo, profitability by capturing market share at minimised costs. As such, and to play as it’s very tempting nowadays to spend and live beyond what touchscreens, video banking services, and many other self-service even if we incur higher costs, it will enhance our profitability model five one can afford, especially in the region. This makes the advisory role channels. We are at the forefront of this digital transformation, to six years down the road, thereby paying off in the future.” crucial and we, as a bank, need to guide people.” continuously focusing on delivering innovation and advanced digital banking solutions. For the coming period, we are focusing Karamanian: “Transforming is about changing an operating model, on advanced analytics, integrated payments, remote advisory and it’s about culture, it’s about educating people. Transformation is a long servicing, Artificial Intelligence (AI), and smart servicing models; journey. It’s not just implementing a system to become technologically minding the regional coverage of local market specificities, regulatory advanced or embracing best practices; this is about learning from your framework, and local laws such as the e-signature, which play an mistakes and listening to your customers.” important element in the transformation of the sector.” CSR REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 25 BANKING FOR MILLENNIALS NOVOT BANK AUDI PRESENTS A CASE STUDY TO STUDENTS AT INNOVATION IN 2016, WE INTRODUCED A NEW MEMBER TO OUR TEAM: WEEKEND AN EMOTIONALLY SENSITIVE ROBOT! Banking is probably one of the most traditional industries in the business Novot’s role was to welcome, inform and entertain our customers. It is world. However, with the whole world shifting to accommodate the pleasant, fun, and acts in a normal, natural way which makes it feel like modern generation, banking has entered a new era that requires much more than just a robot! It is a genuine humanoid companion created more innovation. Millennials, which, according to researchers, are born to communicate in an intuitive way through its movements and voice, between early 1980s and mid-1990s, are reshaping the whole banking which all seem very humanlike. The best thing about Novot is that it experience. As opposed to previous generations, they value speed and loves to interact with humans, to learn more about tastes, habits, and convenience over loyalty and security. Above all, millennials value innovative quite simply who its interlocutors are. It can recognise faces, speak, hear services, which is Bank Audi’s specialty. As a leading innovative financial and move around autonomously. Banking for millennial institution, Bank Audi participated in Innovation Weekend 5 organised by Seeqnce, SETT, and Startup Megaphone from 17 to 19 February 2017, The strong point of this robot is that it is the first of its kind in the region, under the theme “Banking for Millennials”. as no other institution has launched a robotics project akin to this one, yet which sets us at the forefront of the competition as an innovative The sole purpose of the Bank’s participation was to drive the 35 young technologically driven feature. students attending the event to “think outside the box” when it comes to banking experience. Mr. Gebran Gebran, Bank Audi’s Head of Customer Novot was chosen and named by Bank Audi to complement Novo, its Experience, kicked off the first day of Innovation Weekend 5 by presenting electronic branch, and to provide information to clients about our wide the students with a case study about the millennial banking problem. Each spectrum of services and products in different languages, which made it of the 5 student groups was challenged to come up with a solution to attract highly solicited by the public in 2017. Just as expected, Novot was met and retain millennials who represent the Bank’s future loyal customers. with enthusiasm, curiosity and surprise. It attended 26 events across Lebanon at events as various as iftars and school presentations. Thanks Mr. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon, explained to the participants to its advanced artificial intelligence and multi-layered neural system, it the solid and tested banking relationships that Bank Audi has developed made an awesome impact on the 10,000 participants it met. NOVOT, new member in our team over the decades with its traditional clientele. He then outlined the Bank’s innovative attempts to attract millennials – Novo, Novot, ITMs, Spring Account, Mash Machine, etc. – and concluded by saying that the youth are the best problem solvers for this predicament. The participants did their share of fieldwork: they visited multiple Bank Audi branches, ATMs and Novo branches, as well as other venues where they conducted surveys and gathered data on the wide range of end users. On the last day, the teams presented their solutions to the jury. The winning team won a prize of USD 1,000. Their solution involved an expense tracking and budgeting application that would be integrated into Bank Audi’s existing, well-established platform. Finally, the teams left such a great impression on the jury that they were invited to pitch their ideas at Bank Audi’s headquarters. 26 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOCAL COMMUNITY COLLABORATION FINANCIAL LITERACY CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 27 Aligned with our strong conviction of Creating Shared Value, we collaborate with various organisations for the benefit of fostering a strong societal ecosystem and sturdy communities, touching humanitarian, health, social, educational, cultural and sports aspects. LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT “ CULTURE After concluding the ATCN course, the quality of my Prix Phoenix de la Littérature performance and dealing with trauma patients, my The annual “Prix Phoenix de la Littérature” 2017 edition was granted to USD USD Mr. Xavier Baron for his book “Histoire du Liban: des origines à nos jours”. efficiency and immediate delivery of trauma care had 5 million 800,000 become more professional. Together with the medical Total contributions Health team, we now have an organised and sequential to the community procedure to follow when dealing with trauma USD 2.9 million USD 1.1 million patients, which has rendered optimal results. Mohamad Hajj, Registered nurse Roads For Life ” Humanitarian and social Culture LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Prix Phoenix de la Littérature: Mr. Xavier Baron and Mrs. Christiane Audi FESTIVALS Al Bustan Jounieh PARTNERING WITH THE CIVIL SOCIETY Anfeh Kartaba •TRAUMA EDUCATION Five years since the implementation of Antelias Kfardebian the collaboration with the Society of Trauma Nurses (STN) where Ashrafieh Kobayat registered nurses from the Rafic Hariri School of Nursing at AUBMC,  Trauma Education Training Baalbeck Mzaar fully sponsored by Roads for Life with the support of Bank Audi, underwent instructor training. Roads For Life, authorised by the • In partnership with Openminds, an NGO dealing with autism, various Batroun Saida Ministry of Public Health in Lebanon, promulgates and sustains awareness projects were organised across the community, where Beirut Tannourine core trauma courses and spreads trauma culture on both national integration was propelled in 12 schools. Additionally, 92 families in Beiteddine Tripoli and regional levels. In summary, a swift and efficient intervention need were helped at the AUBMC Special Kids Clinic. Byblos Zahle by the emergency teams on the scene of the accident can prevent • Our contribution to the Lebanese Autism Society (LAS) enhances Ehdeniyat Zouk Mikhael unnecessary deaths. For nurses, the three-day ATCN® course includes the wellbeing of individuals with autism and helps advocate the rights an educational model that promotes critical thinking processes and of 104 students. Faqra a collaborative, synchronised team approach to trauma care (ATLS®). • Ahlouna supports orphans and children with special needs in their Doctors and nurses caring for trauma patients in Lebanon have the education, as well as underprivileged elderly and families. We were opportunity to share a common language and approach to trauma able to contribute to the tuition of a number of children and to cater care in view of saving more lives in the golden period of trauma. to the needs of few disadvantaged persons. In 2017, Roads For Life trained 1,290 rescue angels, of which • Ajialouna caters to patients in need. Together, we were able to extend 90 nurses, in collaboration with Bank Audi across 35 Lebanese their offering to seven ill persons. hospitals. The program was also rolled out to Kenya in 2017. CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 28 • Embrace Lifeline, established by Embrace, is a national suicide • In 2017 ASSAMEH – Birth and Beyond treated 746 patients at • 400 children supported by Chance Association will have the “chance” prevention helpline as an effective preventive measure. We supported governmental hospitals with a treatment matching that of private to benefit from a colourful and joyful future. The Association will the helpline that received 88 calls in its pilot phase as of Q4 2017. hospitals. They are the only organisation to admit orphan new-borns, provide them with medical, psychological, educational and, above all, of which 18 cases were presented in 2017. emotional support and affection. “I received a call from a lady who had just attempted to • Bank Audi’s acknowledgement of regionally and internationally • Al Younbouh serves people with special needs through social acclaimed journalists’ sacrifices to bring truth to the world is appreciated integration. 83 Bank Audi volunteers participated in “Walk with Al kill herself by taking a whole box of her antiepileptic by the May Chidiac Foundation (MCF). Every year, thousands of Younbouh” in solidarity with the organisation’s cause. medication. She was distressed and did not know viewers watch the annual MCF Media Awards Ceremony event live or on • Contributing to Heartbeat’s concerts, gala dinner and fashion TV, and attribute the success of the event to Bank Audi, as one of MCF’s show helped save the lives of 45 children born with heart disease. what to do next, so she called us. I was able to calm most ardent supporters of freedom of speech and liberty. Through this The partnership between Heartbeat and Bank Audi exists since the her down and guide her to go to the nearest hospital. continued partnership, MCF has been able to hold trainings, workshops inception of the association in 2005. and prestigious events to educate media professionals and prospective In the meantime, with her permission, I contacted her brother to follow up with her and assist her. She journalists in the art of journalism and broadcasting, in what is ultimately a manifestation of freedom and accountability. • Skoun Lebanese Addictions Centre is an NGO whose purpose is “The dream was to save every child born with heart problems. The dream was to create a sustainable successfully underwent gastric lavage and had the to save lives through addiction treatment, drug prevention and policy momentum that transcends from the goodwill necessary care and monitoring at the ER before being reform. The aim of the association, which treats over 550 patients of a few to a commitment by the community as discharged home safely. This was done with ongoing annually, is to prevent substance use among young people as a priority, reaching over 10,000 students and young adults throughout the year a whole. We dreamt, we realised, you made the follow up with the hospital and the family until we ” in their communities, schools and universities across Lebanon through dream come true. ensured that the caller was safe and well taken care of. outpatient clinics. Bank Audi covers about 30% of Skoun’s budget. Pr. Victor Jebara, Vice-President Heartbeat ” Alaa, Helpline operator Embrace • For the past 28 years, Oum el Nour has pioneered drug prevention, rehabilitation and reintegration, welcoming over 6,600 young men • Together with Tamanna, who makes sick children’s wishes come true, and women struggling with drug addiction. Oum el Nour services are NATIONAL DAYS we were able to turn Ali’s (7 years old) tears into laughter by providing provided to all without any sort of discrimination, and are completely Celebrating Teachers accommodation and travel to visit Disneyland – Paris with his mother. free of charge. The success of Oum el Nour has always greatly In recognition of a fruitful segment of our community, the Bank depended on the generosity of contributors, such as Bank Audi. Our honoured teachers on their special day. Branch managers visited around latest contribution allowed the delivery of 26 awareness sessions, 45 schools across Lebanon, met with around 4,000 administration and preventing 780 youths from drug use. staff, shared a breakfast during the week of 6 March, and distributed • Socio-Economic Development In Rural Communities Jabal Moussa giveaways. This heart-warming initiative was crowned with success and UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. In 2017, the support of Bank Audi had 100% positive feedback thanks to the personal touch of branch allowed the procurement of material, tools and machines for the managers and team members that marked the event. development of Jabal Moussa local food and handicraft products, Similarly, trainers at the Bank Audi Training Academy received appreciation benefitting more than 50 local households. Local farmers were gifts on Teacher’s Day. Since many of our employees represent the supported through the purchase of their yield, whether fruits, herbs teaching profession in our miniature society by being trainers in our or honey. Substantial income was generated to local women who Training Academy, for several years now, Bank Audi has chosen 9 March handled production and packaging. The environmental sustainability to recognise its trainers who contribute to improving the Bank’s human of the project was a major concern: products were sourced locally; capital by coaching employees who need guidance. waste was reduced and transformed into compost; heating methods Members of the HR Department’s Training Unit presented the employees were either solar or required little fuel consumption; and finally who teach in the Training Academy with symbolic gifts as tokens of handicraft items were produced from recycled wood or fabric. appreciation for their efforts. This year, they were offered honey jars accompanied with small notes saying “Thanks for bee-ing a great teacher! Making children’s dreams come true CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 29 Women’s Day Independence Day Bank Audi Runs Strong Against Child Abuse 8 March, is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and A Creative Tribute on Lebanon’s Special Day On 12 November, the BLOM Beirut International Marathon attracted political achievements of women throughout world history. It is all about Proudly Lebanese, and with roots firm in its home soil, Bank Audi 43,000 runners from different backgrounds and age groups, bringing the unity, celebration, reflection, advocacy and action for accelerating celebrated Lebanon’s Independence Day through quite an unusual TV fun and joy to the city all while running for a good cause. This year’s gender equality. commercial. The Bank opted for a creative musical approach, recreating edition, athletes from 99 countries, challenged themselves to get to the International Women’s Day is celebrated at Bank Audi as its culture the national anthem, with a collage of sounds and scenes taken from finish line and win. 380 of our colleagues, together with their friends has always been founded on the principle of equality and fairness for the Lebanese people’s daily lives. The ad ran on various media channels and families, gathered in front of Bank Audi’s cheering station where both women and men. Additionally, Bank Audi proudly adopted the including TV, cinema screens, and online platforms during the week singer Anthony Touma and our very own Band Audi played the greatest United Nations’ SDG 5 which calls for Gender Equality and Women of 22 November. The ultimate objective was to kindle in the Lebanese musical hits to inspire the runners. This year, the Bank’s employees ran Empowerment. This commitment is reflected in the composition of the audience a sense of inclusion and pride of belonging to their country, for the benefit of himaya, an NGO that intervenes in schools all over Bank’s human capital which is equally represented by both genders. by telling them that they are celebrating their independence every day, Lebanon to raise awareness around child abuse among the youth, Particularly on this day, employees are invited to rise above differences, through their hard work, success, experiences, and most of all through offering them self-protection and life skills, and reminding them of their remember our humanity, and support the empowerment of women at their diversity. rights as children. all levels. International Nurses’ Day SPORTS ACHIEVEMENTS Bank Audi collaborated with Hôtel-Dieu de France (HDF) to celebrate the efforts of the hospital’s hardworking staff, with bonsai trees to Basketball AUST Independence Tournament thank them and recognise all the efforts they extend while doing their jobs. During the event, 10 randomly selected HDF staff members won 1 place st Football Co-League Mini Tournament Football Inc. a weekend getaway for 2 at Beit El Qamar, in addition to other fun Table Tennis Tournaments: Charbel Akl activities at Bank Audi’s stand, showing the Bank’s appreciation to HDF and the strong relationship between both institutions. Football BDL League Father’s Day Initiative 2 place nd Football Lebanese Syndicate of Bank Employees Beirut Corporate Games: 128 employees Bank Audi runs against child abuse Honouring Fathers on Their Special Day participating As a token of appreciation of fathers’ constant support to their families, Bank Audi greeted fathers who visited its branches on 21 June, with branded car mugs. This symbolic gesture brought up positive reactions of gratitude and surprise from unsuspecting clients who thanked Bank Audi for its gesture. On that same day, all male clients applying for a Visa Platinum or Visa Signature card received the card free for the first year. As it also deeply cares for its human capital, Bank Audi also thanked its employees who are fathers themselves, with the same gift as a token of gratitude for their hard work and dedication. Once again, the Bank was perceived as an institution that remains close to its customers and an advocate of family values. Beirut Corporate Games CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 30 Saida International Marathon MySchoolPulse is a non-profit organisation that provides education Bank Audi Sponsors the Renovation of the Military Boardroom Together We Run. Together We Are. Together We Grow. to children suffering from life-threatening illnesses. Thanks to On the occasion of Army Day, Bank Audi Management attended the On the morning of 23 April, ready and excited runners gathered next 1,660 participants, the marathon raised USD 90,000 which allowed inauguration of the renovated military boardroom at the headquarters to the Rafic Hariri Sports Stadium in Saida, preparing to run the Saida MySchoolPulse to tutor 90 sick children at the rate of USD 1,000 a of the Lebanese Army, a project entirely funded by the Bank. The International Marathon, while Bank Audi employees, along with their year per student, and offer them the opportunity to pursue a better commander of the Armed Forces, General Joseph Aoun, thanked Bank friends and family, waited by the Bank’s tent to take a group photo prior life and have a brighter future. Since inception in 2010, 508 children Audi for the generous donation and for its ongoing support to the to their respective races. undergoing treatment for life-threatening illnesses have been schooled, Lebanese Army throughout all the challenges it faces. Participating in the marathon were 178 colleagues and, surprisingly, with a success rate of 93% passing class in 2017 thanks to 13 dedicated Mr. Samir Hanna took the opportunity to congratulate the Lebanese Army around 17,000 runners. Managers of Bank Audi Saida branches and teachers spread across 6 hospitals. on the 72nd anniversary of its establishment. He expressed the Bank’s many prominent Lebanese politicians and figures attended the event pride to support the army, thanking it for its sacrifices, for protecting the and cheered with the crowd. country, and for preserving its unity, sovereignty and stability. A distance away, next to Saida branch, Bank Audi set up a cheering station where the Bank’s three bands entertained runners. Our employees, accompanied by our Corporate Ambassador, Maxime Chaya, enthusiastically took part in in the 7K competitive race. “Run for Peace and Development” was the slogan of the Saida International Marathon which fostered hope and presented the runners with an opportunity to surpass differences and unite for a cause. My SchoolPulse Marathon TRIBUTE TO THE ARMY Bank Audi visits army units all over Lebanon Bank Audi Visits Army Units All over Lebanon In line with its strategy to enhance and strengthen its relationship with the Lebanese Army, Bank Audi visited 25 army units throughout Lebanon and met with their commanders in an effort to honour their mission and show them support. Proud to be a pioneer in such a move, Running for peace the Bank’s representatives delivered a presentation of its products and services to over 3,700 army officials. This initiative opened new horizons with the Army institution and its My Schoolpulse Marathon commander, and revealed an environment of trust and cooperation, in Confirming yet again its commitment to the community, Bank Audi light of a long-term banking relationship. sponsored the MySchoolPulse marathon for the 8th year in a row. 110 employees showed their support to this cause by running on Sunday, 30 July, and enjoying a pleasant family day in the relaxing green surroundings of Faqra, Kfardebian, all while contributing to give sick children the chance to pursue their education in hospitals, for a full academic year. CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 31 FINANCIAL LITERACY Kidzmondo Global Money Week: Learn. Save. Earn. Located at the Beirut Waterfront, KidzMondo is a replica of a real-life For the 3rd year in a row and as part of the Global Money Week (GMW) city which provides children between the ages of 2 to 14 with interactive initiative, “Learn. Save. Earn.”, Bank Audi, in coordination with the and immersive vocational role play activities designed to be fun and Higher Council for Childhood – Ministry of Social Affairs, hosted high pedagogical, based on “edutainment”. school students for “A Day at Bank Audi” over 6 consecutive days This city for kids is composed of the different industries that make up the from 27 March until 1 April. The GMW is an internationally recognised private and public sectors of a real city. These include vocational domains initiative by Child and Youth Finance International intended to empower ranging from banking to agriculture, IT, media, F&B, automotive, and the next generation of financial actors to be confident, responsible and civil and medical services. skilled economic citizens. Our impact in this micro world is all about raising awareness on This annual event allows schools, universities, government ministries, financial literacy as part of a broader sustainability goal for Bank central banks, financial institutions, members of the civil society, and Audi. Our conviction that financial literacy starts at a young age and communities of active youth worldwide to participate in activities to our commitment to KidzMondo since 2013 offers young children reshape the financial landscape and give young people the tools and the opportunity to familiarise themselves with banking basics in a inspiration they need to shape their own future. motivational environment. Bank Audi’s CSR, Training & Development, Branch Network Management, Kidzmondo Group Retail Banking, Compliance, and Planning & Project Management Injaz Lebanon teams joined efforts during the event which aimed at guiding future Injaz modules aim at fostering an understanding of the active world leaders towards a successful path, and at introducing them to the World These initiatives come in line with the Bank’s and a spirit of entrepreneurship through the principle of learning by of Banking, CSR, Career Guidance, Compliance and Risks, Saving Tips doing. It also encourages young people to think globally about their and Bank of the Future. CSR strategy which aspires to promote enterprising potential and activities. Bank Audi, through its Volunteer financial literacy through communication with specific stakeholders and empowering Program, partnered with Injaz Lebanon to contribute to various modules presented to public schools, orphanages and NGOs which cater to LEARN. SAVE. EARN. underprivileged children while sharing their experience, and therefore Over 520 students participated from: future generations by educating them on helping them prepare for a successful career and a brighter future. Bank financial planning and management, savings, Audi has been a board member of Injaz Lebanon for the past 15 years. Antonine Sisters School – Mar Elias, Ghazir and social inclusion. Furthermore, the 2017-18 academic year saw an exclusive partnership AGBU: Tarouhy-Hovagimian Secondary School on the “More Than Money” module, with 450 students scheduled Collège des Saints Coeurs – Ain Najm to benefit from our volunteers’ know-how. The “More Than Money” Collège Notre-Dame De Nazareth – Ashrafieh program teaches students about earning, spending, sharing, saving money, and businesses they can start or jobs they can perform to earn Ecole Saint Joseph de l‘Apparition – Beirut money. Students are encouraged to use innovative thinking to learn Makassed – Khaled Bin Al-Walid money-management skills as they explore their career aspirations. Modern Community School Mont La Salle Institut Technique des Frères “It was great to take part in the INJAZ Innovation Camp this year and compete in a business challenge with Montana International College Notre-Dame des Apôtres – Kab Elias fresh graduates. This program fosters innovation La Sagesse – Ain El Remmaneh La Sagesse – Jdeideh and creativity, driving the youth to come up with Sahagian College quick and interesting solutions to faced challenges. SOS Youth ” Injaz Innovation camp Nathalie Abi Nassif, Bank Audi El Ghobeiry Public Secondary School for Girls CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 32 Spring Account (read more) Financial Independence ‘Let’s Talk Money’ “Play and Win”, a fun and educational quiz competition, was held Financial independence and freedom are the right of every member in An Interactive Financial Literacy Quiz Launched in November 2017 for at the Soap Museum in Saida in the context of our “Spring” Account our society. This is one of the foundations of strong, equal, and fair social Young Adults Aged Between 16 and 24 Years. which supports financial literacy. The competition included students growth. In order to ensure that every person receives and exercises this Through this quiz, the youth will be able to: from 6 different schools in Saida, each represented by 4 team members. right, Bank Audi has taken upon itself to help spread financial literacy • Learn about personal finance The top 3 teams won valuable prizes for their efforts. among Lebanese citizens. In this context, the Bank welcomed 18 members • Test their financial knowledge of the Lebanese School for Blind and Deaf – Baabda, and 15 members • Receive an e-certificate and reward of the Lebanese University’s League for the Blind, to financial literacy This financial literacy website features 6 different modules: sessions which included an overview of available banking products and • Introduction to Banking technologies making banking accessible to everyone. Different members • Spend vs Save of the Bank presented various products: loans, retail accounts, credit cards, • Retail Products & Services e-banking, online services, and the legal aspect of addressing the visually • Credit Cards impaired community. A demonstration of the accessibility to ITMs for the • Bank of the Future visually impaired and a hands-on session using JAWS (Job Access With • CSR Speech), a screen reader developed for computer users whose vision loss During the first 2 months, 2,117 young adults participated in the game. prevents them from browsing screen content, followed the presentations. This financial inclusion outreach falls perfectly in line with BDL’s intermediate circular No. 458 dated April 2017 and requesting all financial institutions to implement measures and policies that give disabled individuals easy Play & Win with Spring access to banking premises and channels by June 2018. Bank Audi had initiated this concept a year before the actual circular. In collaboration with various departments, the Bank has been transforming Codi Academy a number of its services to make them accessible for all, adapting 173 Eight students of the Codi Academy, a training centre fostering digital ATMs and making them wheelchair-accessible, an initiative made public and technical skills for underprivileged and marginalised youth in through a special campaign on social media. Lebanon, spent a day at Bank Audi to learn more about banking, with an introduction to the world of banking, plastic money and e-payments, retail loans and SME loans, and combating financial crime. Their journey at the Bank ended with a visit to the Novo e-branch. “I can’t thank you enough for the session today; we’re getting fantastic feedback on the content and the trainers! The Novo branch was really impressive and cutting edge, it’s super clear how advanced Bank Audi is versus the market. Codi, Hortense Decaux, founder ” LOCAL COMMUNITY COLLABORATION Equips youth with the skills and mindset needed to become Delivering “Be A Leader” financial literacy sessions entrepreneurs, business leaders for the benefit of 22 students from OWSS Injaz and sought after employees Delivering the Innovation Camp for AUB students stimulating their communities VOLUNTEER PROGRAM on financial aid and contributing to the economic Continuing to match our corporate charitable donations with a direct human involvement through its development corporate “Be a Hero for a Day” program, the Volunteer Program was further developed to provide Interns’ volunteer day: entertaining 43 elderlies at opportunities for managers and employees by organising departmental and team building activities. The the yearly Camp at Ajaltoun Kibarouna Cares for elderly Celebrating Christmas with 50 elderlies program encouraged employees to engage and give back to the neediest, and raised their awareness on Hosting grandparents’ day with 1000 seniors at the important social, educational and environmental issues. In 2017, the “Be a Hero for a Day” program and its Palais des Congrès volunteers genuinely demonstrated how we can embrace a culture of high engagement and responsibility. Caters to the Cedars’ Forest Les Amis de La Marketing & Communications Department’s Such social investment programs have a significant impact on employees’ performance at work, and ensuring its development and Foret Des Cèdres sustainability volunteer day: planting cedar trees increase the feeling of fulfilment by committing to these community outreach and volunteerism initiatives. Maison Saint Inviting and accompanying underprivileged Serves the poor with love, respect, children to KidzMondo Total Vincent Filles justice and joy Hot chocolate afternoon with 80 children, playing de la Charité board games NGO partners 18 Mar Semaan Hot chocolate afternoon with 63 children, playing Cares for orphans Beneficiaries 2,815 Centre board games Volunteers 392 Bab Idriss Regional branch employees’ volunteer day: entertaining 120 elderlies at René Moawad Hours 1,873 Welcomes neglected and Mission De Vie abandoned persons Sanayeh Garden Inviting and accompanying underprivileged children to KidzMondo Delivering “Be A Leader” financial literacy sessions Orphan Welfare for the benefit of 22 students Partner NGOs Mission Activities Society Saida Cares for orphans Special Needs Olympics at the Ahmad Mosbah (OWSS) Bizri Center Rehabilitates children from abuse HR Department’s volunteer day: serving AFEL and delinquency 50 juvenile delinquents at an iftar Serving 100 orphans at an iftar Hot chocolate afternoon with 55 children, playing Keserwan Regional branch employees and their board games Improves the quality of life of Villages Al Younbouh students with special needs families participated in the annual walk with 55 Provides a home for orphans Interns’ volunteer day: playing board games, scout mentally disabled children d’Enfants S.O.S. games, and exercising with the children Amour Provides the underprivileged Giving a tour to 6 elderlies at Villa Audi et Partage elderly with a dignified life Improves students’ life through Step Together individualised tuition and therapy Job shadowing for 2 students with learning difficulties Marketing & Communications Department volunteer Ayadina Helps underprivileged children day with 33 elderlies at Hill Hout, Khenchara, Association and the elderly guessing songs and proverbs, playing cards, dancing and sharing lunch Improve the quality of life of Balsam people facing life-threatening Hosting a jazz concert at Résidence des Pins illnesses Cedars Beirut Regional branch employees volunteer day: Eradicates poverty for Care serving 350 persons at an iftar Creates economic, administrative, DOT teaching and training Providing administrative support opportunities Protects the vulnerable, the Organising banking workshops for visually impaired Equal forgotten, and Mother Earth persons from LSBD and LULB Foyer Cares for the elderly and for Metn Regional branch employees’ volunteer day: Notre-Dame people with mental disorders entertaining 100 disabled elderlies Volunteer Program CSR REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 34 43 BEST PROJECTS EXECUTED DURING 2017 DONATIONS 1,497 Bank Audi has integrated the eagerness to donate in its culture: whether it is material or emotional, employees are happy to donate. UNITS OF BOOKS BLOOD For the fourth year in a row, the Bank organised a book donation to spread culture and support social and cultural causes, with a view to fostering our community’s intellectual, educational and cultural BENEFICIARIES potentials. This year, the books were donated to Saint Vincent de Paul. 4,000 450 KG OF IT KG OF BAB IDRISS REGIONAL BRANCH DAY AT SANAYEH GARDEN 120 In addition, blood donation campaigns were rolled out twice in 2017. The first campaign was for the benefit of the Lebanese Red Cross, and the second one was in partnership with Donner Sang Compter OBJECTS CLOTHES (DSC). The main goal of these campaigns is to raise awareness on CHRISTMAS CELEBRATION 50 blood donation. We are also keen to help underprivileged citizens and contribute to ensure warm winter nights for those who cannot afford to buy 1,995 KG OF 100 clothes in the winter season. In 2017, the Bank organised two clothes METN REGIONAL BRANCH AT FOYER NOTRE-DAME donation events which expanded to all Lebanese regions where it is FURNITURE present, with drop off locations in Beirut, Shtaura, Saida, Jounieh, and Tripoli. Finally and for the occasion of Earth Day, employees were invited to give away their unwanted electronics, like TVs, tablets, phones, music players, keyboards, hard disks, CD-ROMs, cables, and monitors. BENEFICIARIES The campaign was also extended to all Lebanese regions, with KIDZMONDO OUTING 95 collection points in our headquarters in Beirut and in a branch in each of the Bekaa, South, Keserwan, and North regions. Additionally, the Bank’s I.T. Department offered its own e-waste for recycling. The latter was collected to the benefit of arcenciel and Association de 80 L’Écoute for refurbishing and recycling purposes. HOT CHOCOLATE AFTERNOON Donating blood to save lives WALK WITH AL YOUNBOUH 55 INJAZ “BE A LEADER” SESSION 22 SOCIAL MEDIA CSR posts showcase Bank Audi employees engaging with the community, include images from events, or have a clear call to action. In addition to updating our community on recent upgrades and relevant interventions. VOLUNTEER PROGRAM DISADVANTAGED PERSONS ACCESSIBILITY Reach Impressions 155,974 27,319 Clicks 128 Interactions 153 Facebook 29 May LinkedIn 10 July 36 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT LABOUR PRACTICES EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY TRAINING, EDUCATION AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT CSR REPORT 2017 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 37 Cultivating human talent is one of our top priorities at Bank Audi. Being one of the largest private sector employers in Lebanon, we value the importance of nurturing human talent in all its guises, whether inside the Bank by investing in our own employees, or outside it by investing in the development of external nation-wide human talent. TRAINING, EDUCATION AND TALENT USD USD LABOUR PRACTICES DEVELOPMENT 78,600 414,000 25 Years of Loyalty – Celebrating the Silver Jubilee of Bank Audi employees USD Invested in the Invested in support our As the years go by, the loyalty of Bank Audi’s employees grows, 1.6 Corporate Academy employees’ development especially since the Bank considers Human Capital as one of its main MILLION 3,970 values. Sketched personalised pictures of the celebrants were handed out in 25-years branded frames to pleasantly surprised colleagues. As the Bank honours colleagues for long service and loyalty, reception got Invested in employee training and development Training academy participants aimed at: 90% underway, employees, Management and invitees raised their glasses for the years of dedication ahead. To end, 25 years may feel like a long time OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVED Enhancing the skills and knowledge to some; but at Bank Audi, it is a history of mutual loyalty and success. of existing branch employees PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Providing career advancement opportunities DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 116 K Training hours deployed We also make it a point to maintain competitive and gender-balanced compensation schemes across the Bank. 2,210 Silver Jubilee Equally split in terms of gender representation, covering all levels of employment 1.48 4.9% RATIOS OF STANDARD HUMAN CAPITAL EMPLOYEES ENTRY LEVEL WAGE BY TURNOVER, Employee Engagement Survey Human Resources (HR) launched the first Employee Engagement Survey 65% GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE EQUALLY SPLIT BY GENDER TYPE in Q4 of 2017. The main objective was to get employees’ insights on SUCCESSFULLY TRAINED the Bank’s culture, operation and working environment, by sharing their thoughts, perceptions and preferences. Administered by an independent consulting company, it gave employees a place where they can anonymously express their opinions on different aspects of their experience at the Bank. The results of the survey placed Bank Audi above major banks in the region and at equal level with global international banks. CSR REPORT 2017 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 38 The survey findings were overall positive and high scores were As part of our determination to retain our employees, we make sure that Employee Wellness emphasised in the categories of “Brand Reputation”, “Innovation” and they take the time needed to nurture their new-borns and cater to their “Learning & Development”, thus re-confirming the Bank’s positioning as needs. We also provide space for them to resume their work and fulfil Total Activity CLUB Description a socially responsible and innovative industry leader that highly supports their career aspirations. Beneficiaries the growth of its employees. An evening of song Karaoke Nonetheless, the results also highlighted areas that need to be 200 Music Club and dance amongst Night improved. For that, HR will be coordinating closely with Management colleagues. to target detected issues and further enhance the employees’ Participation of experience at the Bank. Band Audi in La La Fête de la Music Club Fête de la Musique Musique organised each year 93% on 21 June. BANK AUDI’S EXCELLENT REPUTATION Participation in WITHIN ITS COMMUNITY Beirut Corporate Games organised by Sport Evasion. 89% Beirut Corporate 300 Sports Club This sport festival aims to encourage SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTALLY Games companies to RESPONSIBLE BANK support their employees’ pursuit of a healthier and 76% Community more active lifestyle. Participation of DIVERSITY IS VALUED Tchoupi 180 Club employees’ children. Le Petit Community Activity for 200 Prince Club employees’ children. L'important Attending the play Community est d'être 100 directed by Alain Club aimé Plisson. 88% 61% Outing Community Cultural visit of OVERALL USD to South 190 Club Shkif Castel and PARTICIPATION ENGAGEMENT SCORE 37,576 Lebanon Breast Rachaya. Wellness programs Cancer Community Awareness session 87 Awareness Club with Dr. Naji Saghir. Session USD USD 198.5 Armenia Trip of 11 days 764,460 and Georgia 20 Travel Cub amongst colleagues. MILLION 5G GOLD UNITS Salaries and benefits Annual end of year gifts * At par with global banks and 12 points higher than Middle East & GCC banks. to our employees CSR REPORT 2017 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 39 EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT HONOR TO THE BEST In yet another partnership that supports youth and helps offer a fruitful USD future, Bank Audi and La Sagesse schools celebrated the 15th annual 6.75 MILLION 413 “Blé Vert” ceremony on 2 June 2017. This year’s edition was marked by a new slogan, “Honneur aux Meilleurs” (Honour to the Best). The event, which was held under the patronage of Mgr. Boulos Matar, Archbishop of the Maronite church in Beirut, and Mr. Marc Audi, Country Manager Loans at preferential interest Number of beneficiaries from Lebanon, recognised 158 distinguished students. To strengthen the rates to university students the university loans granted relationship between the two institutions, a short movie was screened during the ceremony, showcasing the warm appreciation expressed by USD 6.6 La Sagesse alumni members of the grants given by the Bank years ago. Job Fairs 497 In his speech, Mr. Audi noted that the partnership between Bank Audi and La Sagesse symbolises renewal and excellence as the foundation of MILLION future success, urging the students to benefit from the education and technology offered to their generation, as they represent the future. Children’s tuition fees Number of internships to university students BANK AUDI AND USJ SEAL THEIR 40-YEAR PARTNERSHIP In the context of the close collaboration between Bank Audi and Saint Joseph University (USJ), a round table was held at Bank Audi Plaza during which a number of students had the opportunity to discuss topics of interest with Mr. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon. The students, who were accompanied by Mr. Toufic Rizk, Vice-Rector for Academic Affairs at USJ, as well as by a number of deans and directors at the university, approached several economic and social topics that affect their future and were discussed in a friendly atmosphere. Blé Vert The meeting was also an occasion to announce the scholarships granted by Bank Audi to 17 USJ students: a first set of USD 5,000 scholarships offered to 7 bright students for their academic performance; and USD 1,000 CSR commitment scholarships offered to 10 students whose contribution to the community was outstanding, within the framework of the “Opération 7e jour” project launched by the university in 2006. Talking about the “solid relationship between Bank Audi and Saint Joseph University”, Mr. Marc Audi underlined that both institutions “share the same objectives: investing in distinguished students and giving them the necessary means to start a solid carrier”. Mr. Toufic Rizk pointed out that “the format of this year’s ceremony, which was requested by USJ and Bank Audi officials, gives voice to the youth who are curious to know strategic details about Bank Audi and the reason behind its interest in students. It is true that the relationship between USJ and Bank Audi dates back some forty years, but the direct contact with students gives it a definite added value.” Bank Audi and USJ seal their 40-Year partnership CSR REPORT 2017 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 40 SPECIAL GUEST ESIB RENOVATION session was to show parents that sexual abuse could happen to anyone. In our constant aim to improve Bank Audi’s human capital, we hosted Bank Audi and USJ inaugurated the recently renovated library at the Science Attendees were educated about the types of signs they should look for Ms. Sigrid Kaag, the United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon. Ms. & Technology Campus in Mansourieh. By sponsoring the renovation, the in their children, but more importantly, about the types of awarenessKaag is a Dutch diplomat with a distinguished long-term record of service Bank will ensure an openly bright space for students to find inspiration, based conversations they need to have with them. at the United Nations. She shared her accomplishments, projects and study and access an extensive collection of research material. views on the challenges in the Middle East with 79 Bank Audi Managers. BREAST CANCER AWARENESS CONFERENCE PROFAMILY As part of the national awareness campaign against breast cancer, Academic Excellence Rewarded Bank Audi organised a conference on the topic. For the tenth consecutive year, 20 children of fellow employees were The Bank welcomed Professor Nagi El-Saghir, President of the Lebanese rewarded for their exceptional results in the Baccalaureate – Part II. Breast Cancer Foundation and Director of the Breast Center of Excellence This comes as a step to encourage teenagers to seek education and at Naef Bassil Cancer Institute – American University of Beirut Medical academic excellence, for ambitious careers and a brighter future. Center. Around 90 employees from different departments and branches • 1st prize received USD 20,000 for achieving an overall average attended the session where Dr. El-Saghir gave general statistics on of 17.73. breast cancer in Arab countries and across the world. He also explained • 2nd prize received USD 15,000 for achieving an overall average the risk factors of the disease namely aging, personal and family history, of 17.72. nutrition and pollution, and the means to detect it, underlining the • 3rd prize tied and received USD 5,000 each for achieving an overall importance of detection. The United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon. Ms. Sigrid Kaag average of 17.26. • 16 students received USD 1,000 each for achieving an overall average between 14.36 and 16.57. EDUCATIONAL LUNCHES Every year, the Bank celebrates education, rewarding and motivating the As we endlessly strive to invest in the knowledge of younger generations children of our colleagues to study hard and shine. The program aims to by strengthening our bonds with top educational institutions, we shore up their future careers and open opportunities for success. had the pleasure of hosting business lunches with the Beirut Arab During the program, they were also coached on many important skills University, USJ and La Sagesse University throughout the year. Bank concerning professional conduct such as how to deliver a presentation Audi’s Top Management and representatives of different departments or how to perform during a job interview. It is worth mentioning that attended these occasions, showing their support for these significant up to this year, Bank Audi has so far rewarded 101 qualified individuals partnerships which aspire to empower the youth and support them in through the Profamily program. their professional journey. Moreover, collaborations with educational Profamily Awardees institutions lead the students to an era of culture and knowledge that CHILD PROTECTION SESSION will undoubtedly brighten their futures. 177 Bank Audi Employees Attended Sessions Discussing Child Protection Awareness. Children need our presence more than our presents; the best gift a child can have is a parent who listens, communicates, and plays with them. Led by Eliane Zgheib, Bank Audi’s social worker, the session focused on the relationship between parents and children and the type of openness they should have. Children should feel confident enough to talk to their parents and confide in them in case of any threat of any kind. It is important to foster trust with children, so they would know that parents will understand L’Ecole Supérieure d’Ingénieurs de Beyrouth (ESIB) library renovation and would never pass undue judgment. The goal of this awareness Breast Cancer Awareness Conference CSR SPREADS THE WORD We continue to be involved, spread the word, CSR – THE SERIES Participating in the Global Compact Network Lebanon Outreach with the ABL and share best practices on CSR through our In an effort to spread the CSR culture, to inspire other financial institutions to follow in the Bank’s footsteps, and to maximise the positive societal outcomes, Bank Audi took part in “CSR – The Series”, an informative involvement with various efforts and key session organised by the Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) in collaboration with the Association activities across Lebanon. of Banks in Lebanon (ABL). Date Conference Topic Presented by Venue Gender issues and leadership Leaders for Democracy Hasmig Khoury AUB – SGD 5 8th Build It Green – Lebanon Environmental initiatives – Monroe Nancy Azar March Annual Sustainability Solutions SDG 13 Hotel Gender Equity & Equality: Promoting women's rights Montana Inspiring Actions in a Vibrant Hasmig Khoury – SDG 5 College Network June CSR The Series 1 The UN Global Compact Hasmig Khoury ABL UNGC Conference: 2017 MultiBest practices for the people Marc Audi AUB Stakeholder SDG Forum SDGs October 7th CSR Lebanon Forum: What Impact of social driven Phoenicia Hasmig Khoury is the Purpose of Business brands Hotel GRI Webinar Anti-corruption – SDG 8 Hasmig Khoury Online Our Common Home: Sustaining a Green and Climate action – SDG 13 Hasmig Khoury NDU November Clean Campus Financial literacy – SDG 4 I-camp Injaz Hasmig Khoury BDD and 8 RESPONSIBLE MILLENNIALS For the third year running, the CSR Unit held an interactive university awareness session aiming to encourage students to be creative and propose a feasible CSR project aligned with the Bank’s CSR strategy. This year, the session focused on Anticorruption, a material issue in our Corporate Governance pillar and one of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Nine students suggested impressive and inspiring ideas of which only three proposals were shortlisted by an external CSR jury composed of five prominent members. During the second phase, the three finalists presented their proposals to our CSR Committee who chose the winners following live presentations. The winners, who won financial prizes for their efforts are: Responsible millennials: CSR university jury presentation 42 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AWARENESS ON RESOURCES USAGE ENVIRONMENTAL LOANS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EMISSIONS ENERGY CONSUMPTION CSR REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 43 AWARENESS ON RESOURCES USAGE AWARENESS ON WHEELS All three of them were selected for the high scores they were able to get on my-cfp.com, the informative and fun microsite developed by Bank Audi to help them assess their household’s carbon footprint. “ Through our partnership with Bank Audi on the Green Schools Certification Program, we were able to raise Green Cedar Lebanon and the Association for Forests, Development, Collège de la Sagesse – Jdeideh also won an interactive board for its awareness on students’ role in reducing negative and Conservation (AFDC), in collaboration with Bank Audi and Beyond efforts in encouraging students to measure their home’s impact on the Magazine, and under the patronage of the Ministry of Higher Education, environmental impact. The MyCarbonFootprint environment, and reduce their carbon footprint by recognising the use launched “Awareness on Wheels”, a school bus raising awareness on microsite by Bank Audi has allowed students in of resources. solid waste management. This platform allows participants to monitor and reduce their household A mobile unit was equipped with environmental awareness material and different schools to start changing habits at home energy expenses and their impact on the environment, by keeping track presented to students by trained professionals. This project reaches out to towards a more environmentally-responsible living, of their homes’ electricity, paper, gas and fuel consumption. schools across the country to consolidate the concept of sorting, recycling, minimising, and reusing waste. Most of the bus’s interior is made of Try it out here and has helped us push for a higher level of student recycled second-hand items, and Bank Audi contributed by offering redundant furniture from branches and refurbished IT equipment. my-cfp.com engagement in sustainability, which we hope would be translated in the formation and growth of dedicated Green students clubs in private and public “ It is through the “My Carbon Footprint” initiative schools in Lebanon. ” launched by Bank Audi and shared with Lebanese Gilbert Tegho, e-EcoSolutions, CEO schools that the Ministry of the Environment and the UNDP were able to reach out to students and the youth in general on the impacts of climate change in Lebanon, underlining its role in reducing emissions Awareness On Wheels and increasing resilience to this irreversible phenomenon. This partnership is a pioneer example of how to harness the best in public and private sector MY CARBON FOOTPRINT Mobilising the Youth for a Better Environment! skills and innovation in order to provide outstanding This initiative was devised by Bank Audi in collaboration with the Ministry services to different levels of the Lebanese society. ” of Environment and the United Nations Development Programme Mrs. Lea Kai Aboujaoude, Carbon Footprint Competition winners (UNDP) to address climate change while raising awareness among the Project Officer, Climate Change Projects, Ministry of the Environment youth on the use of resources and its impact on the environment. In 2017, the three winners were from Collège de la Sagesse – Jdeideh: • Joya Ayoub in 1st place: reduced her total GHG emissions from 144 CO2e and won an Apple iPad. • Jana Kataya in 2nd place: won a professional bicycle. • Georges Sleiman in 3rd place: won a professional bicycle. CSR REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 44 ECO-FRIENDLY & POWER-FREE Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh then took the stage, concluding: Turning off the Power in Support of Earth Hour “Lebanon spends not less than USD 6 billion in order to import energy Every year, Earth Hour unites millions of people around the world to into the country; it can save 10 to 20 percent of that amount by using raise awareness on climate change, highlighting the need to use clean advanced technologies.” and renewable energy. Earth Hour is an international initiative organised by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and encouraging individuals, INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE (IUCN) communities, households and businesses to turn off their lights for one Bank Audi Hosts IUCN Biodiversity Conference hour from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm on a particular day in March every year. Bank Audi hosted the first regional forum for biodiversity in The movement originally started with Sydney’s 2007 lights-off event and collaboration with the IUCN and under the patronage of the Lebanese has currently grown to engage more than 7,000 cities in 178 countries Ministry of the Environment. around the world. Lebanon Climate Act Champions’ Ceremony In the presence of H.R.H. Princess of Jordan Basma Bint Ali, founder of LEBANON CLIMATE ACT AWARD CEREMONY the “Royal Botanic Garden”, official representatives from Egypt, Jordan, During the past year, Bank Audi received an award for its commitment international environmental bodies, local green associations and news to the Lebanon Climate Act and its considerable efforts to reduce its reporters, H.E. Tarek Al Khatib, Lebanese Minister of the Environment, impact on the environment. The award ceremony took place at the opened the forum with the Lebanese environmental achievements and Campus de l’Innovation et du Sport of Saint Joseph University, under the Ministry’s plans for the future. the patronage of Prime Minister Saad Hariri. The Lebanon Climate Act is an initiative run by the environmental The forum was described by many environmentalists as the cornerstone NGO Green Mind and the United Nations Development Program, of the road map that will help countries from the region collaborate in partnership with BDL. The ceremony brought together high-level to make the COP 14 conference a success. The COP 14 conference is business, political and civil society actors aiming at addressing climate taking place in the fourth quarter of 2018 in Sharm Al Sheikh, Egypt, to change through an economic growth-friendly lens, encouraging the set a common strategy for environmental protection. private sector to “demonstrate positive climate change leadership” by playing a leading role in tackling destructive environmental impacts. IUCN Biodiversity Regional Conference chaired by the Lebanese Minister of Environment H.E. Tarek Al Khatib and H.R.H Princess of Jordan Basma Bint Ali ENVIRONMENTAL LOANS “ I would like to particularly congratulate the 11 champion companies of the Lebanon Climate Act. USD 18.8 million environmental loans subsidized by the Central Bank of Lebanon at preferential interest rates. We hope that you become role models and set the These loans cover a spectrum of environment-friendly modifications ranging from financing a construction certified Leadership in Energy and standards for the fight against climate change in Environmental Design (LEED), to purchasing absorption chiller solutions, your respective sectors. I think that what many of financing energy efficient components and zero waste solutions, planting trees, renovated lighting systems, acquisition of photovoltaic panels, and your initiatives show is that, while taking action landscaping implementations applied in private, residential or commercial against climate change, many of these measures also buildings. promote a green economy. This generates growth, creates jobs and eradicates poverty by investing in and preserving the natural capital assets upon which the future of our planet depends. Ms. Christina Lassen , European Union Ambassador ” BANK AUDI PROMOTES INDUSTRIAL, CLEAN ENERGY LOANS “Lebanon’s situation has improved in terms of Q: Where do growth opportunities for corporate and commercial lending lie? security, but the political environment has yet A: It all depends on business confidence in the country, which will lead everybody to think of new projects or business expansion, simply because of stability and confidence we would love to promote business confidence, the key to to see things moving faster in the right direction. investment growth”, according to Mr. Ibrahim Salibi, Assistant However, we still see several potential projects including photovoltaic farms in the electricity General Manager and Head of Corporate and Commercial Banking at Bank sector, and the possibility of exploiting Lebanon’s gas and oil resources, which would bring Audi. In an exclusive interview with The Daily Star, Mr. Salibi discussed the huge financing opportunities. At the same time, we are leaning towards more environmental Bank’s focus on export-oriented industries and environmental products, friendliness through the generation of clean, renewable energy. Such projects are still nascent, but I think we’ll see more of them in this area soon. and outlined the unique services that Bank Audi offers to its corporate and commercial clients. We also think that agriculture offers significant potential because it helps people stay on their land and produce the right export products, although they still require advice and guidance. Q: How do Bank Audi’s products differ from those of other Lebanese banks? Furthermore, we see opportunities emanating from the variety of Central Bank incentives, including parking projects. With the Central Bank allowing banks to lend money in Lebanese A: There are two main factors that differentiate us from other banks in Lebanon. First, we Pounds at 3% for 7 years for parking projects or for extra parking spaces, this could definitely have access to long-term funding from abroad through international financial institutions, help in places like Downtown Beirut, where the need for parking space is quite high. and at attractive rates, to match the long-term financing needs of our clients. Second, we focus on environmental products because we know the value of environmental lending. We believe the latter helps safeguard what is left of our country’s environment, and we need to promote the culture among business owners that this also helps them economically. That’s why we consider environmental lending to be a part of the Bank’s corporate social responsibility. CSR REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 46 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE IN SUM: We sustained our “Grow Green” program which encourages employees KG KG to recycle solid waste in their workplace and at home, and to dispose of it at the Bank’s three special hubs. 123 3,906 Collected plastic bottle caps continue to be donated to arcenciel to provide Were collected Were collected from the wheelchairs for the disabled, and collected plastic bottles are donated to from employees I.T. Department Association de l’Ecoute. In 2017, we continued to track the impact of our Ahlouna himaya “Grow Green” program since its inception in 2012. Al Zawrak Jeunesse Contre La arcenciel Drogue (JCD) EMISSIONS Association de l’Ecoute Mission de Vie Total Weight of Waste in Kg In partnership with a certified expert, we conducted a comprehensive Ayadina Association Oum El Nour audit of our carbon footprint by monitoring all our premises. This process 4,000 e-waste 1,005 PET Bottles Caritas Carmel Saint Joseph Orphan Welfare Society Saida Parish of Anfeh was launched in 2012, hereafter considered as base year, with a view to comply with the GRI Standards on environmental impact. As per our GHG inventory based on the GHG-Protocol Corporate Standard, Couvent St. Elie Saint Vincent de Paul we have reported on the following seven greenhouse gases: carbon du Sauveur dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons Dar Al Aytam Al Islamiya Sesobel 129 92,600 (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen Dar Al Inaya Sisters of the Salvatorian trifluoride (NF3). Dar Al Sada Young Women’s Christian The GHG calculations were performed using well-established tools and Plastic Paper Dar Al Salam Association (YWCA) methodologies following the GHG Protocol developed by the World Resource Institute (WRI, 2006b, c). Using an internationally recognised tool allows a standardisation of procedures and calculations, which is key 20,640* 1,574 in order to quantify and compare emissions accurately. THIS INITIATIVE AIMED AT HELPING: The calculation of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used are based on GHG-Protocol which uses the IPCC Reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills Metals Trees emission factors provided in the IPCC guidelines of 2006, the IPCC Second Preserve natural resources such as wood, water and minerals Assessment Report (1995), and the local emission factor for electricity * Includes not recurrent old ATMs disposing. communicated by the Lebanese Ministry of the Environment. Prevent pollution 0.205 tCO2e Save energy GHG EMISSIONS PER M2 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming, and Help sustain the environment for future generations 6.88 tCO2e GHG EMISSIONS 2017 23,292.7 tCO2e PER EMPLOYEE TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS ENERGY CONSUMPTION We visited Liban Cables’ premises in Nahr Ibrahim following a formal invite to attend the inauguration of the Solar Power project we are financing through a NEEREA loan approved in November 2016. The inauguration was held under the auspices of H.E Mr. Cesar Abi Khalil, Minister of Energy and Liban Cables’ plant is one of the biggest green energy projects in the country and the first one Water, and H.E. Dr. Hussein Al Hajj Hassan, Minister of Industry, in the presence of Mr. Edgard to be completed within the framework of the Small Decentralised Renewable Energy Power Chehab, Assistant Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme Generation (DREG) Project. The DREG project will cover a portion of the solar system’s cost (UNDP), of Dr. Fadi Gemayel, President of the Association of Lebanese Industrialists, represented through a grant by the GEF, while the remaining cost will be financed through the National by Mr. Georges Nasrawi, and of Mr. Bassem El-Hibri, Chairman and President of Liban Cables. Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Action program (NEEREA) set up by Banque Du Liban. The 601 kilowatt-peak solar power plant was co-financed by the Global Environment Facility The event kicked off with speeches from the various attending dignitaries and the host; and (GEF) and Liban Cables through the Central Bank’s NEEREA loan program, and implemented by followed by a walk-through in Liban Cables to observe the solar installation from the roof and the UNDP in partnership with the Ministry of Energy and Water. receive a technical brief on the system and its performance to date. The project consists of 1,908 solar (photovoltaic) panels generating approximately 938,000 kilowatt-hours per year, contributing to significant cost savings at Liban Cables, as well as a subsequent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of 751 tons per year. This green energy will cover over 8% of the electricity needed by the plant to produce a wide range of building, industry and infrastructure cables. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 48 EXPERTS’ CORNER AWARDS AND RECOGNITION • Continue to raise awareness and build competencies and capabilities • Cedar Miles for social responsibility, to engage the Bank’s employees at various levels • Air Time Global Finance towards applying and promoting the Bank’s CSR principles. • Cashback Safest Bank in Lebanon • Gift Voucher Best Private Bank in Lebanon Data Aggregation and Reporting Process Cards Middle East Investor Relations Association • Further reinforce the internal review process to ensure that reported and • Debit Card Best Investor Relations Professional – Levant calculated figures are accurate and in harmony with published information, • Credit Card where applicable (e.g. financial reports, social media, and others). • Installment Card Euromoney Award • Charge Card • Consider automating the data collection and reporting mechanism • Corporate Card Net-worth-specific Services through the establishment of a central CSR data platform. Automation • Co-branded Card Commercial Banking Capabilities is to mitigate the risk of human errors through direct interface between • Prepaid Card reported figures and financial records, automated calculation of ratios and statistical data, visualisation of collected data on the variety of topics, Bancassurance INTERNAL AUDIT REPORT real time update on work in progress, analysis of the data received from • Aman Al Elm multiple sources, etc. • Aman Al Ghad Objective: Review and evaluate the development of the Corporate • Aman Al Darb Social Responsibility activities. • Consider the creation of a referencing mechanism to further formalise • Aman Al Madkhoul the audit trail between the reported information and the source of this • Aman Al Hayat The Internal Audit Department conducted a review over Bank Audi 2017 information. • Aman Al Dirassa Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report based on the objective and • Aman Al Dar scope outlined above. Rana Nassif Sassine Rita Merhej • Hizam Al Aman Head of Internal Audit Head of Unit • Hizam Obligatory Our audit revealed that the Bank is continuously exerting efforts to improve the CSR reporting process. The review was based on interviews Accounts and testing on sample basis. In conclusion, nothing has come to our • Sight Deposit Account attention to make us believe that the information contained in this • Payroll Account report has not been fairly presented in all material respect. However, • Spring Account we identified areas for potential improvement that Management should SAMPLING OF BANK AUDI’S BRANDS, PRODUCTS • Wedding Account consider. These are as follows: AND SERVICES • Current Account for Individuals and Businesses CSR Enhancements • Deposit Account Business Lines • Consider integrating the various initiatives into a formalised long • Personal Banking term forward looking plan that addresses the interrelated CSR aspects, Loans • Business Banking mapped to SDG goals; along with the related key risks, expected social • Business Loan • Private Banking impact and performance (quantitative and qualitative), key performance • Premises Loan • SME indicators (KPIs) and measurement of the progress of each sub-program • Kafalat Loan to the originally stated objectives and goals. • Home Loan Loyalty Program • Audi Rewards • Further reinforce the positioning of the CSR function to become • Travel Rewards integrated across all levels of the Bank as part of its overall strategy, • Kids Rewards decision making and business processes. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 49 • Car Loan Beirut Marathon Association: organizes running events that inspire unity, Lebanese Red Cross: promotes peace, serves the society, and alleviates human • Personal Loan positively change lifestyles, promote wellness, and provide an experience of suffering • High tech loan challenge all for a good cause • University loan Les Amis De La Forêt Des Cèdres: caters to the Cedars’ Forest ensuring its • Loans for Public Sector development and sustainability Braveheart: helps children with congenital heart diseases • Personal Loans for Newly Weds Lebanon Mountain Trail Association (LMTA): maintains and conserves the trails Cap-Ho: helps sick and disadvantaged Lebanese children to receive the best Services possible medical treatment Maison St. Vincent – Filles de la Charité: serves the poor with love, respect, joy • Bank Audi Mobile App and justice • PinPay Cedars for Care: eradicates poverty • ADSL Service Mar Semaan Center: cares for orphans Cénacle de la Lumiere: helps individuals and families overcome drug alcohol • Calculator problems • Bill Domiciliation May Chidiac Foundation: trains and researches media issues • Audi Online Chaîne des Amis: aims at solving social problems • Safe Deposit Box Mission De Vie: welcomes neglected and abandoned persons • Car Tax Payment Chance: helps kids with cancer and blood disorders MySchoolPulse: provides children undergoing treatment for life-threatening SMS Service illnesses with the opportunity to continue their education E-statement DOT: creates economic and administrative teaching and training opportunities OpenMind Fund: assists individuals with special needs through advocacy INITIATIVES ENDORSED BY BANK AUDI Embrace: helps people with mental illness Orphanage Welfare Society of Saida: cares for orphans Cultural festivals as detailed in the report (Community Development) Equal: protects the vulnerable, the forgotten, and our wounded earth Oum El Nour: helps individuals overcome their addiction Various business forums as detailed in the report (Economic Development) Foyer Notre Dame: cares for the elderly and people with mental disorders Roads For Life: provides post-accident care Multitude of educational institutions as detailed in the report (Human Development) Heartbeat: provides advanced surgical technology to treat children with heart diseases S.O.S.: children’s orphan village AFEL: rehabilitates children from abuse and delinquency Human Rights Watch: defends the rights of people worldwide Sesobel: assists children with disabilities Ahlouna: contributes to the development of citizens on a social level Injaz: equips youth with the skills and mindset needed to become entrepreneurs, Skoun: supports people with addiction problems Ajialouna: supports underprivileged individuals business leaders and sought after employees stimulating their communities and contributing to the economic development Step Together: improves students’ life through individualised tuition and therapy Al Younbouh: improves the quality of life of students with special needs Institut Technique Franco-Libanais (ITFL): prepares youth to be integrated in the Tamanna: grants the wishes of children with critical illnesses Amour et Partage: provides the poor with a dignified life professional life ASSAMEH Birth & Beyond: provides first class medical services to premature Jabal Moussa: conserves the natural heritage babies and children Kibarouna: cares for the elderly Ayadina Association: helps underprivileged children and the elderly Lebanese Autism Society: provides services to children Balsam: improves the quality of life of people facing life-threatening illness CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 50 INITIATIVES TO ENHANCE FINANCIAL LITERACY Initiative Target group Category Goal Subject Area Activities-related Beneficiary Language Information Material Youth Spring Account All youth Practical access to money and special services Promotion Campaign, sponsorships Youth Arabic/English Online and brochure (18-23 year-olds) Sight Deposit Account All Low-income individuals Saving Account and additional benefits Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Each age group has its Schooling Insurance Account Parents Helps parents ensure their children's' schooling fees Promotion Parents and youth Arabic Brochures own formula Housing Insurance Account All All Insures house against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures Life Insurance All All Insures individuals against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures University Studies Insurance Parents Youth Ensures university studies fees Promotion Youth Arabic Brochures Personal Loan All Low-income individuals Assists in personal spendings Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Wedding Account All Newly Weds Helps newlyweds guarantee their future Promotion Newly Weds English Online and brochure Housing Loan All Low-income individuals Helps needy individuals buy houses Promotion All Arabic Online and brochure Visa Business Debit Card All Businessmen Help businessmen control their business spendings Promotion Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure Educates cardholders on the evolving “Chip” technology All You Need to know about “Chip Cards” All cardholders All which was introduced to combat the growing levels of Informative All English Online and brochure fraud Educate cardholders on the latest PayPass contactless payment technology, a new feature that makes their All You Need to know about “PayPass” All cardholders All Informative All English Online and brochure purchases easier since they simply have to tap their card on a secure reader to pay Summarises Bank Audi cards split by chip type: “Chip & Employee’s Guide to “Chip Cards” Employees All Comprehensive All English Brochures PIN” or “Chip & Signature” Common Reporting Standard All All Helps fight tax evasion Informative All Arabic/English Brochures Transparency First Allow SMEs to manage their banking transactions and SME Products and Services Panoply SME clients SME clients meet their business needs through flexible financial Promotion Campaign SME clients Arabic/English Online and brochure solutions CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 51 EXAMPLES OF BANK AUDI’S MEMBERSHIP OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS IN INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS: Association des Banques du Liban (ABL) Our materiality process helps us identify the most relevant sustainability The entire process and the content of the Report is duly validated Positions held: issues and prioritise these for strategic implementation within our by all key stakeholders where external partners and all Bank Audi 1. Board of Directors: Dr. Freddie Baz organisation’s processes. Similar to previous years, we have engaged a departments including the Executive Committee and the Disclosure 2. Committee for Compliance and Fighting Money Laundering: chaired range of internal and external stakeholders in our materiality process for Committee, are implicated. by Mr. Chahdan Jebeyli, Esq. 2017, capitalising on different tools and communication processes. Both 3. Legal Committee: chaired by Dr. Georges Achi sets of stakeholders are important from the Bank’s perspective, and this We acknowledge that the sustainability platform is an interactive stage 4. Research Studies Committee: Dr. Marwan Barakat (rapporteur) feedback has been instrumental in helping us further enhance our CSR and are cognisant to the changes needed. Hence we adapt through 5. Investment Banks and Capital Markets Committee strategy and continuously quantify the most impactful issues for 2017 regular reviews of our material issues. 6. Committee for Organisation, Standardisation and and their relevant aspect boundaries. In fact, we take pride to be an Information Technology organisation that engages in open and constructive dialogue with our However, the changes to our materiality issues and aspect boundaries 7. Communication Committee stakeholders and gives this feedback systematic attention in refining its from last year were minimal, which allowed us to retain the materiality 8. Corporate Governance Committee: Mr. Farid Lahoud (rapporteur) CSR strategy. This meticulous materiality exercise formed the basis for issues that were considered of medium to high influence on our 9. Human Resources and Social Affairs Committee defining our report’s content for 2017. stakeholders’ assessments and medium to high in significance to Bank 10. Banking Terms and Conditions Committee Audi’s economic, environmental and social impacts. We continue 11. Islamic Banking Committee As a result of identifying the most important aspects of our sustainability, to exclude from the Report those aspects that were considered 12. Banking Risk Committee we have allocated resources for sustainability impact in key projects such non-material, given their lower importance and/or their inapplicability as furthering our financial inclusion – financial literacy and SME business to Bank Audi’s operating context. World Union of Arab Bankers outreach where value is created and shared. Union of Arab Banks Considering that this reporting is restricted to Bank Audi Lebanon, the Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture “CCIA” As for defining report quality, priority was given to balance the interest materiality process is relevant for all Lebanese subsidiaries, and the International Chamber of Commerce – Lebanon “ICC” of all audiences and not just sustainability experts, hence the omission scope of the material aspects and their boundaries are focused on Bank Swiss Business Council-Leb of detailed indicators from the main frame of the Report and their Audi Group – Lebanon entity (Bank Audi sal and its Lebanon-based Arab Federation of Exchanges availability within a special file addressed to experts and facilitating subsidiaries), hence excluding other entities listed in the Bank’s 2017 reading to a wider audience. Annual Report. OUR APPROACH TO CSR REPORTING In the experts’ corner, one can compare year-to-year data since reporting Reporting year is 2017. initiation on the various relevant indicators as per our materiality matrix The previous report is the “CSR Report 2016: Engraining Impact” in our chart generator. published in July 2017. The reporting cycle is: annual. Aiming for accuracy and clarity, we have provided timely and reliable For information about the report, please refer to: information wherever available with minor rounding. Restatements Bank Audi’s CSR Unit that took effect in the current report are for the figures related to the CSR@bankaudi.com.lb collective agreement coverage of “Other Lebanese Entities” of previous Bank Audi Palladium – Bab Idriss years’ reporting in distribution and are due to human error. These Beirut, Lebanon were revised and stand correctly in the table on p. 66 (read more). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Bank Audi’s values are further embedded, and henceforth prioritised, Core option. due to the effect the relevant sustainability issues have on staff behaviour. Our GHG emissions report is audited by V4 Advisors, an external expert on the topic. Our CSR report is internally audited by our certified auditors. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 52 Materiality Matrix and Main Issues of Priority Concern for 2017 Process of Defining Material Aspects and Boundaries Importance to Stakeholders IDENTIFICATION • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness External human development Environmental and Social Management System OF CRITICAL • Principle of Sustainability Context 1 Product portfolio ASPECTS Indirect economic impacts • Assessing relevant topics Anti-corruption • Identifying relevant aspects Economic contribution • Assessing internal impact Local community support of aspects Procurement practices • Assessing external Local community collaboration impact of aspects Ethical conduct Labour practices HIGH Emissions Awareness on resources usage Corporate Product responsibility Governance PRIORITISATION • Principle of Materiality Local community development OF ASPECTS • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness 2 Environmental loans Economic Financial literacy Development • Evaluating and prioritising Training, education and talent development Infrastructure investments relevant aspects and topics Community • Assessing materiality of topics Energy consumption Development Market presence to stakeholders Compliance Human Human rights Innovation Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity Development VALIDATION OF • Principle of Completeness Effluents and waste Inclusive and Sustainable Industrialisation ASPECTS • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness 3 Environmental Protection • Validating the material Significance to Bank Audi HIGH aspects identified REVIEW • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness • Principle of Sustainability Context 4 • Reviewing material aspects of the Report CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 53 STAKEHOLDERS’ CONSULTATIONS STAKEHOLDER BASIS CHANNELS ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2016 AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION IN 2017 ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2017 (Q4) GROUPS OF SELECTION USED Internal The largest number of • Newsletters. • Conduct a feasibility study concerning the • In progress – Laid over to 2018. • Provide a retirement plan pensions to retired beneficiaries who uphold and • T ailored surveys: possibility of generating electricity needs employees. convey the Bank’s image as they 16% (541 from rooftop photovoltaic panels. • Create an advanced external and internal are the front liners in contact out of 3,402) • Sponsor sustainable eco-friendly projects. • Sponsorships for NGOs that support environmental causes. communication plan for the CSR activities. with external stakeholders. of employees • Provide financial services to clients who can • Introducing high level contacts to the Global Compact • Implement a solar system to generate electricity They also contribute to the answered. contribute to the SDGs. Network Lebanon (GCNL) for the uptake of the at branches, which will minimise power usage decision-making process by • Internal Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). and decrease pollution and electricity cost. being the major reporter of communication. • Organise ethical and business conduct • Under regular implementation. • Invite clients to participate in CSR projects. information. • Stakeholder workshops for all employees. • Offer lower interests rates on environmental engagement panel. • Organise workshops addressed to customers. • Introducing high level contacts to the GCNL for the loans. uptake of the SDGs. • Give employees an option to give an amount of • Give clients the opportunity to participate in • E ngaging “Springers” in the Volunteer Program (VP), their bonus to a charity, which will be matched CSR events. conducting workshops for SMEs, and introducing high by the Bank. level contacts to the GCNL for the uptake of the SDGs. • Establish financial education programs for youth • Include people with special needs in the •G  CNL special needs project under Human Rights: and entrepreneurs. workplace. “Support the inclusion of employees with disabilities • Offer more scholarships to students with within organisations”. outstanding performance who come from • Make branches accessible to all. •D  elivered. Refer to “Financial Independence” – under modest backgrounds. Community Development in the 2017 CSR Report. • Grant a loan to female entrepreneurs, with • Provide paid training opportunities at the • T raining opportunities (no payments required) for the “easier” terms. Bank to underprivileged youth. youth: Codi training. • Ensure water consumption management. • Engage women in leadership programs to • Under regular implementation. • Integrate a pop-up notification to Bank Audi’s Employees prepare them for Management positions. online application to trigger stakeholders’ • Provide low-interest loans for women •M  icrofinance loans through ADR to 304 female curiosity about CSR and its engagements, empowerment and entrepreneurship entrepreneurs representing 37.5% of the total including a “did you know” notification. projects. beneficiaries. In addition, 9% of our SME clients are • Grant a short schedule to moms during the 2 exclusively female. months following their maternity leave. • Provide a day care centre for employees’ • Being researched. • Mentorship program to high school or university children to help working mothers balance students by the Bank employees. their jobs. • Provide retirement pension plans to • P ost-retirement health coverage was rolled out with employees. more under research. • Create an elderly day care where healthy • Collaborated with relevant NGOs through VP. elderlies can meet with their peers and share a meal. • Expand employee volunteering within our • E ngaged with departments and branches for recruitment corporate culture. and team building within our VP. • Ask every employee to participate in at least •U  nder our CSR Committee’s recommendation, we one CSR activity per year as per the Bank’s preferred to keep this purely voluntary. policy. • Organise a CSR event to which employees’ • Employees’ children can be invited to the VP events. children would be invited. • Steer the VP towards education. • Increased financial literacy programs by exclusively adopting Injaz’s “More Than Money” module. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 54 STAKEHOLDER BASIS CHANNELS ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2016 AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION IN 2017 ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2017 (Q4) GROUPS OF SELECTION USED Internal One of the Bank’s key pillars • Monthly meetings. which includes decision-makers • Workshops. who set the overall strategic • Stakeholder direction of the Bank and monitor engagement panel. Management its implementation. They are also the constituency accountable for repercussions of the Bank’s contributions. Investors who have a clear stake • Annual meetings. in the business and are important • Stakeholder strategic financial contributors engagement panel. Shareholders with commitments that ensure • Annual reports. the financial health and viability of our business. External Providers of services and raw • Meetings. • Align each of the pledged 5 SDGs to specific • Implemented and reported within the relevant activities • Furthering inclusiveness for persons with special materials with whom the Bank • Stakeholder targets. of each pillar and tagged SDGs. needs. has a mutual-benefit relationship. engagement panel. • Vocational training that fills specific market • Codi and Roads for Life’s nursing training. • Furthering communication on our CSR efforts. We are keen on maintaining a needs, similar to Injaz modules and Roads for • Perceiving and tackling of human rights. close working relationship with Life partnership. • Promoting financial inclusion. key suppliers across different • Financial literacy: implement a ready-based • Implemented an online interactive financial literacy quiz, • Supporting vocational training and human Suppliers industries, and we acknowledge online quiz module platform in English and “Let’s Talk Money”, currently under translation to Arabic. development in rural areas. that our suppliers are also Arabic. • Furthering public/private collaboration. invariably affected by the Bank’s • Gender equality: ease new mothers’ lives by • Negotiated discounted rates with nearby nurseries. • Promoting education for the benefit of the operations and policies, especially making a deal with a nearby nursery. community. with regards to quality and • Gender equality: allocate a private room for • Under research. • Conducting trainings to raise SMEs’ awareness of integrity standards. nursing mothers. Financial Management in times of crisis. • Anti-corruption initiatives. • The CSR university awareness theme was “Anti-corruption”. • Financing and marketing researches and Critical stakeholders for the • Tailored surveys. GCNL workshop on anti-corruption. innovations in the university sector. Bank, who sustain its continued • Meetings. • Help SMEs access each other’s services and • Laid over to 2018. • Conducting campaigns to decrease corruption vibrancy and vitality. They are at • Stakeholder benefit from networking opportunities. and access to information. the heart of the decision-making engagement panel. • Make one volunteering day per year •A  t the recommendation of our CSR Committee, we • Setting clearer KPIs. process in terms of operations, mandatory for each employee. preferred to keep this purely voluntary. • Promoting Corporate Governance and Clients products issuance and services, • Integrate employees in the VP Committee. • Established a VP Committee with 6 employees. transparency, and their spillover effect to other and are the ones who benefit companies. most from the Bank’s services. • Supporting start-ups, social entrepreneurs, MMEs They contribute financially by and SMEs. endorsing the Bank and making • Undertaking environmental initiatives. use of its services. The official institutions that frame • Meetings. the regulatory boundaries of the • Stakeholder Bank’s legal operations. They are engagement panel. Regulatory bodies affected by the Bank’s operations • Workshops. and industryand manifold economic related associations contributions. They also influence the way we frame our decisionmaking in relation to key aspects of our operations, including CSR. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 55 STAKEHOLDER BASIS CHANNELS ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2016 AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION IN 2017 ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2017 (Q4) GROUPS OF SELECTION USED External The most enduring partners • Meetings. of the Bank in the field of • Stakeholder CSR, symbolising the channels engagement panel. through which we contribute to • Various events. the community and sustain our • Volunteer program. NGOs scaling of social impact and our spill-over effect. They are chosen based on the congruence and compatibility of their mission and strategies with the Bank’s values and social orientation. Competing banks and financial • Meetings. institutions which are also • Stakeholder collaborators in setting the engagement panel. operational, social, environmental • Workshops. Competitors and competitive standards. We also value our competitors in terms of helping promote and enhance CSR in Lebanon. Local community stakeholders • Events. in various locations where our bank operates. We identify our well-being as closely tied to that Community Civil of the community around us, and society we seek to improve our external environment through various programs, events, activities and philanthropy. Various media groups and • E-newsletters. channels that transmit • Interviews. information and with which the • Events. Bank liaises to communicate in • Newspaper. relation to various aspects of its • Social media. Media activities, including CSR. Through the media, we stay in touch with the various external stakeholders around us, while conveying and sharing our identity, programs and activities. 4 different stakeholders were • Events. selected to choose the best 4 Jury members initiatives proposed by university students in the context of the university awareness competition. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 56 INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION Employees ranked in priority the 5 Sustainable Development Goals When consulted on material issues, employees responded that the Bank This analysis illustrates the outcomes of the survey conducted internally (SDG) that Bank Audi has recently pledged to: should mostly focus on: to measure employees’ knowledge and satisfaction on a number of 1. Staff training, education and talent development (373 votes). materiality issues related to Corporate Social Responsibility at Bank Audi. 2. Promoting productive employment and decent work for all (240 votes). 3. Human rights (239 votes). Results showed that respondents are equally gendered within the bulk 4. Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity (228 votes). of respondees aged 32 to 45, with a majority tenure at an average of 5. Ethical conduct, anti-corruption and compliance (224 votes). 5 years. 6. Awareness on resources usage (170 votes). 7. Environmental loans (159 votes). 8. Take urgent action to combat climate change (158 votes). 3,402 34% 9. Environmental and Social Management System (140 votes). 10. Emissions, effluents and waste and energy consumption (138 votes). 11. Financial literacy for the community (125 votes). Bank Audi employees were of the respondents have been 12. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth (119 votes). invited to participate involved in a socially responsible 13. Foster innovation (113 votes). component at Bank Audi 14. External human development (105 votes). 15. Local community support, collaboration and development (101 votes). 541 27% employees completed the survey, have volunteered in a CSR representing a participation rate initiative at the Bank of 16% CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 57 Aggregating all the issues identified through the above mentioned means, we are confident that our materiality matrix organised within our pillars and aligned with the SDGs we have pledged for last year is still relevant and addresses the concerns of our stakeholders at large. We hence project these within the aspect boundaries where the impact is highest, as summarised in the below table. MATERIAL ISSUE ASPECT BOUNDARIES Employees Management Shareholders Suppliers Clients NGOs Regulatory Bodies Competitors Community/ Media Jury members Civil society Ethical conduct • • • • • • • • Corporate Compliance • • • • • • • Governance Environmental and Social • • • • • • Management System Anti-corruption • • • • • • • • • Human rights • • • • • • • • • Economic contribution • • • • • • • Indirect economic • • • • • • • • • impacts Market presence • • • • • • • • • • Product responsibility • • • • • • Economic Product portfolio • • • Development Infrastructure • • • • • • • • investments Inclusive and sustainable • • • • • • industrialisation Innovation • • • • • • • • • Procurement practices • • • • • • Local community • • • • • • • • • • development Community Local community support • • • • • • • • • • Development Local community • • • • • • • • • collaboration Financial literacy • • • • • • • Labour practices • • • • Diversity, inclusion and • • • • • Human equal opportunity Development Training, education and • • • • • • talent development External human • • • • • • • • development CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 58 MATERIAL ISSUE ASPECT BOUNDARIES Employees Management Shareholders Suppliers Clients NGOs Regulatory Bodies Competitors Community/ Media Jury members Civil society Emissions • • Effluents and waste • • Environmental Protection Energy consumption • • • • Environmental loans • • • Awareness on • • • • • • • • resources usage DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH The material topics and their boundaries presented above form the Both our DMA and our reporting are guided by the values of relevance, essence of our entire materiality process. The two key challenges accuracy, timeliness, comparability, reliability, clarity, balance and invariably encountered in relation to materiality include casting the net completeness. All these principles ensure that our approach to CSR wide enough to capture important sustainability issues and corresponding reporting is organic and advancing dynamically to meet the changing risks and opportunities, yet not exceeding a reasonably small sub-set of expectations surrounding us, and that we remain true to our most material issues that really matter to the company and can be managed in cherished guiding values pertaining to transparency and civic engagement. a consistent way. This report is thus intended to delineate the active steps we have taken to integrate sustainability in our business using our resources efficiently Defining these material issues and their boundaries is at the heart of our and responsibly, and respecting the precautionary principle in terms of Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA). We exercise a rigorous minimising risks to our stakeholders and to the environment and society and elaborate process in selecting materiality issues that matter the most at large. to our stakeholders. We also assess each of these in terms of risks and opportunities for our business, our reputation and our finances. As part of our continuous improvement journey, we revisit our DMA every year, assessing its overall effectiveness, as well as potential gaps, Each of these issues is also evaluated annually in implications towards weaknesses or shortcomings, and decide, in light of that, on any needed our business, taking into consideration the legal requirements, national refinements or adjustments. priorities and international norms of behaviour within the scope of feasibility and implementation of the CSR initiatives pertaining to these material issues. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sustainable Finance New Loans with Environmental and/or Social Benefits Provided during 2017* PROJECT NAME/SECTOR VALUE FINANCED TYPE OF ENVIRONMENTAL/ (USD) SOCIAL BENEFIT Commercial mall 969,450 3 loans LED light Cow farm 148,610 1 loan Renewable energy: solar PV (grid) Individuals 160,830 2 loans R3E solutions; solar PV (pumping) Industrial city 11,214,530 1 loan Waste water management; landscaping Industry: flour 380,780 1 loan Renewable energy: solar PV (grid) Industry: olive oil 595,070 1 loan Energy efficiency Industry: paper products 198,150 1 loan Renewable energy: solar PV Industry: pharmaceutical products 693,530 1 loan LED light and photovoltaic system Industry: printing 326,950 1 loan Renewable energy: solar PV (grid) Industry: wires and telecommunication cables 520,150 1 loan Renewable energy: solar PV (grid) Real estate 3,467,640 1 loan Energy efficiency Social services NGO 1,769,000 2 loans Development: educational, health and social services Tourism 122,190 1 loan Renewable energy: solar PV (hybrid) TOTAL 20,566,880 17 loans * These financings constitute a particular financial product, namely “Green Loans” under the NEEREA and LEA mechanism, which are subsidised by the Central Bank of Lebanon (BDL). Such loans are submitted for review by the LCEC prior to their approval by BDL. The remaining loans, while not specifically Green Loan financial products, constitute financings provided with an environmental/social benefit. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 60 Anti-corruption Related Training Year on year, our employees and governance bodies attend anti-corruption related trainings. ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING TOTAL EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLE PERCENTAGE FOR TRAINING EMPLOYEES 298 2,503 12% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 181 868 21% 2017 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 29 31 93% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 508 3,402 15% EMPLOYEES 1,133 2,603 44% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 259 680 38% 2016 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 15 40 38% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,407 3,323 42% EMPLOYEES 1,009 2,511 40% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 276 584 47% 2015 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 12 35 34% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,297 3,130 41% EMPLOYEES 1,205 2,434 49% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 214 474 45% 2014 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 31 81 38% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,450 2,989 49% CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 61 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Economic Contribution* 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2,989 3,310 3,323 3,402 TOTAL NUMBER OF OPERATIONS 47,225,446 52,309,613 55,697,141 62,175,796 TOTAL OPERATING INCOME USD 689.6 million USD 836.1 million USD 1,159 million ** USD 871.1 million TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND SUBORDINATED DEBT USD 3.64 billion USD 3.77 billion USD 4.27 billion USD 4.53 billion 72 products 72 products 74 products 51 products TOTAL NUMBER OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 73 services 74 services 79 services 56 services** * Excluding consolidation adjustments. ** This fluctuation is further explained in (Product Portfolio – Sale of EPCS). Direct Economic Contribution* 2014 2015 2016 2017*** TAXES USD 52 million USD 48 million USD 63 million USD 62 million ECONOMIC SPONSORSHIPS > USD 535,000 USD 920,990 USD 825,990 USD 520,450 (creating job opportunities/enhancing innovation/allowing local economies to prosper) ASSETS FOR LEBANON GROUP USD 24.5 billion USD 25.8 billion USD 29.81 billion USD 30.61 billion ASSETS FOR LEBANON GROUP WHEN ACCOUNTING FOR FIDUCIARY DEPOSITS USD 29.4 billion USD 30.7 billion USD 35.7 billion USD 36.94 billion TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES USD 372.6 million USD 394.5 million USD 462.5 million USD 383.46 million INCOME TAXES USD 30 million ** USD 64 million ** USD 136 million ** USD 66.85 million PERSONAL INCOME TAXES FROM EMPLOYEES’ SALARIES USD 13 million** USD 18 million** USD 18 million** USD 21.35 million EMPLOYEES’ SALARIES USD 90 million ** USD 101 million ** USD 123 million ** USD 150 million SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS USD 14 million ** USD 14 million ** USD 16 million ** USD 18 million TOTAL LOANS WITH LOW INTEREST RATES USD 50.8 million USD 49.2 million USD 43.4 million USD 43.3 million TOTAL BENEFICIARIES OF KAFALAT LOANS 437 460 515 487 KAFALAT LOANS/YEAR N/A USD 11 million USD 11.88 million USD 9.16 million BENEFICIARIES OF KAFALAT LOANS/YEAR N/A 66 60 69 SANAD LOANS USD 18 million USD 15.4 million USD 17.3 million USD 16.3 million BENEFICIARIES OF SANAD LOANS 149 163 110 117 TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS OF LEBANON’S GDP 1.80% 1.81% 2.34% 2.20% BDL CIRCULAR 331 COMMITTED INVESTMENTS USD 11 million USD 26 million USD 41 million USD 47.6 million SUPPORT EVENTS AND ASSOCIATIONS USD 265,431 USD 489,085 USD 548,000 USD 482,250 * Excluding consolidation adjustments. ** For Bank Audi sal. *** Consolidated including Bank Audi Lebanon Group. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 62 Infrastructure Investments The following table exposes some of the internal infrastructure business investments made which will impact our support in services to the communities that are in the direct vicinity. PROJECT DESCRIPTION COST INVESTMENT ABC Verdun branch New e-branch USD 151,000 Commercial Saifi SME New premises to cater for small and medium enterprises USD 398,500 Commercial Tyre branch Renovation USD 252,500 Commercial Jnah CLD Renovation USD 369,500 Infrastructure Gefinor branch 24/7 facilities USD 92,000 Commercial Verdun branch Renovation and CBC extension USD 1,900,000 Commercial Mazraa branch Renovation and 24/7 facilities USD 219,000 Commercial Khalde branch Renovation, extension and 24/7 facilities USD 566,000 Commercial Novo City Mall branch Renovation USD 80,000 Commercial Batroun branch New branch USD 900,000 Commercial Ghazir branch Relocation USD 860,000 Commercial Baabda branch New branch USD 773,000 Commercial Tripoli Mina branch Renovation USD 126,000 Commercial Zalka branch Renovation USD 162,000 Commercial Khalde, BDL Hamra Updating USD 12,000 Commercial & Dekwane offsite ATMs TOTAL USD 6,861,500 CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 63 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Local Community Support 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COMMUNITY USD 4.7 million USD 4.6 million USD 5.1 million USD 5.1 million HEALTH USD 557,000 USD 619,000 USD 773,693 USD 792,210 HUMANITARIAN AND SOCIAL USD 2.5 million USD 2.5 million USD 2.5 million USD 2.8 million CULTURE USD 1.47 million USD 1.33 million USD 1.70 million USD 1.11 million FULL COST OF TREATMENT FOR ONE SICK CHILD USD 54,000 USD 50,000 USD 53,560 USD 116,000 EMPLOYEES' CONTRIBUTION 485 466 454 441 FACILITATED TREATMENT OF 20 CHILDREN WITH CONGENITAL HEART PROBLEMS USD 150,000 USD 150,000 USD 150,000 USD 151,000 SPONSORSHIPS TO VARIOUS ORGANISATIONS USD 55,000 USD 50,000 USD 50,500 USD 49,150 CALLS FOR BLOOD DONATION DRIVE 65 51 75 120 PURCHASE OF CORPORATE GIFTS FROM NGOs USD 340,000 USD 275,000 USD 276,365 USD 266,746 EVENTS IN WHICH OUR E-PAYMENT CARD SERVICES PARTICIPATED 15 31 10 read more DONATIONS RAISED VIA OUR GPRS MACHINES DEPLOYED AT THE EVENTS USD 318,000 USD 990,000 USD 403,250 COMMITTING TO NGOS THAT SUPPORT DISADVANTAGED PEOPLE USD 74,000 USD 110,640 USD 113,217 USD 88,934 COMMITTING TO NGOS THAT SUPPORT DIFFERENT SOCIAL CAUSES USD 80,000 USD 100,000 USD 90,000 USD 49,289 SPORTS ACTIVITIES SPONSORSHIP USD 100,000 USD 115,000 USD 144,000 USD 270,990 Local Community Development 2014 2015 2016 2017 BENEFICIARIES FROM PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS IN THE REALM Over 900,000 1,000,000 968,000 943,000 OF CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT NUMBER OF BANK AUDI EMPLOYEES WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE BEIRUT 500 400 488 380 INTERNATIONAL MARATHON (BIM) NGOS SUPPORTED IN THE BIM Brave Heart Fund Kunhadi Association Donner Sang Compter himaya CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 64 Local Community Collaboration VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL (CUMULATIVE) NGO PARTNERS 6 8 11 18 18 BENEFICIARIES 683 * 1,792 * 2,040 * 2,815 * 7,614 VOLUNTEERS 150 228 306 392 392 HOURS 530 * 580 * 1,804 * 1,873 * 4,907 * These figures are year-to-year and non-cumulative. 392 employees and an additional 59 interns volunteered in 2017. HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Training, Education and Talent Development 2014 2015 2016 2017 EMPLOYEE 29.73 36.18 33.59 34.19 MALE 25.12 32.13 27.14 29.17 FEMALE 35.24 41.03 41.14 40.03 AVERAGE EMPLOYEE TRAINING HOURS FRONTLINE EMPLOYEE 27.04 36.09 32.37 34.06 MIDDLE MANAGER 44.89 36.68 38.16 34.58 SENIOR MANAGER 22.05 34.43 35.33 34.03 CAREER ADVANCEMENT PROGRAMS • 14 – Branch Management Program (BMP): provides qualified employees with an equal opportunity to assume first line supervisory positions. It is designed to identify, train and develop the Bank’s future branch managers and assistant managers through a one to three-year program exposing them to an intensive and learning environment. • 153 – Certified in miscellaneous BDL modules. • 27 employees benefited from the Bank’s sponsorship grants as follows: 13 advanced university studies. 10 advanced certifications (CMA, CFA, CIA, SHRM CP). 4 Executive Education (Harvard and INSEAD); banking studies. • 90% received career development reviews: 49.57% male employees 50.43% female employees • 22% Managers received career development reviews. • 78% staff received career development reviews. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 65 Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity Employee Composition by Gender and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon % OF STAFF % OF MIDDLE MANAGERS % OF TOP MANAGERS (below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to Grade 21 Inclusive) (Grade 22 and above) F M F M F M BANK AUDI sal 37.76% 34.73% 11.81% 14.60% 0.14% 0.96% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 21% 57.67% 9.17% 11.33% 0% 0.83% BANK AUDI sal 38.21% 37.23% 10.49% 12.77% 0.36% 0.94% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 28.60% 46.32% 5.78% 14.45% 0% 4.85% BANK AUDI sal 38.98% 38.63% 9.35% 11.66% 0.38% 1% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 30.34% 49.08% 4.44% 11.33% 0% 4.80% BANK AUDI sal 39.80% 39.60% 8.60% 11.30% 0% 0.60% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 31.50% 50.40% 3.90% 11.30% 0% 3% Employee Composition by Age Group and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon % OF STAFF % OF MIDDLE MANAGERS % OF TOP MANAGERS (below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to Grade 21 Inclusive) (Grade 22 and above) <30 BETWEEN >50 <30 BETWEEN >50 <30 BETWEEN >50 30-50 30-50 30-50 BANK AUDI sal 23.91% 37.44% 11.13% 0.21% 19.09% 7.10% 0% 0.39% 0.71% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 19% 38.83% 20.83% 4.83% 7% 8.67% 0% 0.33% 0.50% BANK AUDI sal 21.63% 40.23% 13.57% 0.14% 17.80% 5.31% 0% 0.47% 0.83% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 13.16% 40.70% 21.07% 0% 13.39% 6.84% 0% 2.42% 2.42% BANK AUDI sal 20.89% 41.71% 15.01% 0.08% 15.78% 5.16% 0% 0.50% 0.88% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 16.89% 39.51% 23.02% 0% 11.96% 3.81% 0% 2.08% 2.71% BANK AUDI sal 22% 42% 15% 0% 15% 5% 0% 0% 1% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 17% 42% 23% 2% 9% 4% 0% 3% 0% Composition of Governance Body Committees by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi as of April 2017 Board and Committees Gender (%) Age (%) Males Females <30 30-50 >50 Board of Directors 82 18 9 91 NB: Senior Management positions are mostly occupied by employees who are older, and hence have more seniority, experience and tenure within the Bank. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 66 Employee Distribution by Contract Type and Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon CONTRACT TOTAL NUMBER GENDER LIMITED EMPLOYMENT UNLIMITED EMPLOYMENT COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT OF EMPLOYEES CONTRACT CONTRACT F M F M F M % Covered % Not Covered BANK AUDI sal 2,802 1,393 1,409 39 52 1,354 1,357 99.39% 0.61% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 600 181 419 29 50 152 369 19.83% 80.17% TOTAL 3,402 1,574 1,828 68 102 1,506 1,726 85.36% 14.64% BANK AUDI sal 2,764 1,372 1,392 66 67 1,306 1,325 100% 0% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 559 158 401 23 46 135 355 33.33% 66.66% TOTAL 3,323 1,530 1,793 89 113 1,441 1,680 88.78% 11.21% BANK AUDI sal 2,599 1,266 1,333 39 45 1,227 1,288 100% 0% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 531 158 373 24 36 134 337 32.11% 67.89% TOTAL 3,130 1,424 1,706 63 81 1,361 1,625 88.48% 11.52% BANK AUDI sal 2,511 1,217 1,294 33 36 1,184 1,258 97.3% 2.7% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 478 143 335 13 22 130 313 36.3% 63.7% TOTAL 2,989 1,360 1,629 46 58 1,314 1,571 88.48% 12.46% * This table was updated from previously published due to calculation flaws. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 67 LABOUR PRACTICES New Employee Hires in Bank Audi Group Lebanon TOTAL NUMBER OF NEW HIRES TOTAL NUMBER OF NEW HIRES BY GENDER TOTAL NUMBER OF NEW HIRES BY AGE F M <30 BETWEEN 30-50 >50 BANK AUDI sal 210 118 92 144 66 0 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 71 19 52 47 24 0 TOTAL 281 137 144 191 90 0 BANK AUDI sal 272 149 123 187 85 0 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 74 10 64 42 29 3 TOTAL 346 159 187 229 114 3 BANK AUDI sal 223 109 114 131 89 3 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 97 24 73 48 38 11 TOTAL 320 133 187 179 127 14 BANK AUDI sal 186 97 89 136 48 2 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 48 11 37 25 19 4 TOTAL 234 108 126 161 67 6 Return to Work and Retention Rates after Parental Leave, by Gender TOTAL NUMBER TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO RETURN TO WORK RETENTION RATE OF EMPLOYEES WHO RETURNED TO WORK RETURNED TO WORK AFTER PARENTAL RATE WHO TOOK AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE LEAVE ENDED AND ARE STILL EMPLOYED PARENTAL LEAVE 12 MONTHS AFTER THEIR RETURN F M F M F M F M F M BANK AUDI sal 48 45 48 45 48 45 100% 100% 100% 100% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 3 12 3 12 3 12 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 56 55 56 55 54 54 100% 100% 96.43% 98.18% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 4 14 4 14 4 14 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 79 61 76 56 76 56 96.2% 91.8% 96.2% 91.8% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 1 8 1 8 1 8 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 81 51 75 51 72 47 96.5% 100% 96% 92% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 6 10 5 10 5 10 89% 100% 100% 100% CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 68 Cost of Benefits to Employees 2014* 2015* 2016* 2017 Salaries and benefits USD 165 million USD 170 million USD 199 million USD 198 million Number of employees supported 888 940 970 1,219 * Previous years calculated for Bank Audi sal only. As of 2017 for Bank Audi Group Lebanon. EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 2014 2015 2016 2017 Loans at preferential interest rates to university students USD 3.9 million USD 6.4 million USD 6.5 million USD 6.75 million Number of beneficiaries from the university loans granted 238 373 371 413 Number of internships to university students 432 423 510 497 Cost of internships USD 80,000 USD 163,000 USD 198,000 USD 148,000 Children’s tuition fees USD 4 million USD 5.3 million USD 5.4 million USD 6.6 million Support of key educational institutions through scholarships and donations USD 640,000 USD 746,349 USD 961,045 USD 943,038 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Total Weight of Waste in Kg YEAR E-WASTE* PLASTIC METALS PET BOTTLES* PAPER TREES 2012 – 30 4,740 – 51,770 1,102 2013 – 130 690 – 83,192 1,414 2014 – 157 – – 103,722 1,763 2015 403 150 – 33 146,769 ** 2,495 2016 2,124 196 54 1,518 111,080 1,888 2017 4,000 129 20,640 *** 1,005 92,600 1,574 TOTAL 6,527 792 26,124 2,556 589,133 10,236 * Initiated in 2015. ** Includes non-recurrent archive disposing. *** Includes non-recurrent old ATMs disposing. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 69 EMISSIONS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total GHG emissions 21,309.8 tCO2e 21,065.6 tCO2e 21,738.2 tCO2e 19,976.2 tCO2e* 23,292.7 tCO2e GHG emissions per employee 7.68 tCO2e 7.0 tCO2e 6.9 tCO2e 6.01 tCO2e 6.88 tCO2e GHG emissions per m2 0.220 tCO2e 0.218 tCO2e 0.225 tCO2e 0.200 tCO2e 0.205 tCO2e Total GHG emissions % from Scope 1 19.2% 21.3% 20.5% 38% 22% Total GHG emissions from Scope 1 4,101.7 tCO2e 4,486.2 tCO2e 4,448.1 tCO2e 7,668.2 tCO2e 5,054.3 tCO2e Total GHG emissions % from Scope 2 75.1% 72.8% 72.1% 53% 73% Total GHG emissions from Scope 2 16,003.9 tCO2e 15,338.3 tCO2e 15,672.4 tCO2e 10,506.1 tCO2e 16,993.7 tCO2e Total GHG emissions % from Scope 3 5.7% 5.9% 7.4% 9% 5% Total GHG emissions from Scope 3 1,204.2 tCO2e 1,241.0 tCO2e 1,617.7 tCO2e 1,801.8 tCO2e 1,244.7 tCO2e Flight trips % of Scope 3 74.3% 68.4% 63.3% 66% 54% Flight trips 894.9 tCO2e 849.5 tCO2e 1,024.5 tCO2e 1,193.9 tCO2e 670.5 tCO2e Courier services % of Scope 3 8.4% 8.2% 23.1% 21% 30% Courier services 101.4 tCO2e 101.4 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e Paper consumption % of Scope 3 17.20% 23.4% 13.6% 13% 16% Paper consumption 209.7 tCO2e 290.1 tCO2e 219.4 tCO2e 234.1 tCO2e 200.3 tCO2e * it is worth noting that at reporting time, given the lack of official data, some estimations were made on our electricity consumption. Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources From diesel From liquefied petroleum gas From Scope consumption (LPG) used for refrigerants in owned 1 cooking in used generators cafeterias ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2014 2015 2016 2017 From electricity Total fuel consumption 1,439,665.8 litres 1,402,789.8 litres 2,608,853.4 litres 1,477,862 litres From electricity Scope purchased from 2 shared purchased Total electricity consumption 23,922 MWH 23,745.1MWH 17,489.4 MWH 24,176.3 MWH from EDL generators % of electricity purchased from EDL 75.9% 73.4% 44.4% 66% % of electricity produced by owned generators 12.7% 12.5% 31.6% 12.90% % of electricity purchased from shared generators 11.4% 14.1% 24% 21.10% From air flights Sources of conversion factors used are the same as those used in 2013 . * Scope taken by From paper From courier employees for consumption services * 2013 CSR Report, Figure 20. 3 work reasons CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 70 EMISSIONS 24,000 23,292.7 Emissions per Sources 23,000 As foreseen in our 2016 CSR Report (ref. Table 22: GHG Emissions) and due to estimations in electricity consumptions made at the time 22,199.8 given the lack of official data, and as recommended by our consultants, 22,000 21,738.2 we optimized the data collection in 2017 by computing monthly consumptions directly from our electrical meters (versus the billed 21,309.9 consumption methodology). This reflected the real consumption and 21,065.6 21,000 increased the reported data accuracy. Therefore, in its 2017 GHG report, Bank Audi had a higher total GHG 19,976.2 emissions (in tCO2e) compared to its baseline year 2012. However, this 20,000 report also shows a reduction of 10.8% when expressed in tCO2e per m2 -4% -5% -2% -10% +5% when compared to the baseline year since the total area of the Bank has increased by 15% (96,579 m2 in 2012 to 113,668 m2 in 2017) requiring 19,000 a higher demand of electricity. Consequently, these results reflect the seriousness in reducing the Bank’s environmental impacts. tCO2e year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Percentages comapred to baseline year, 2012. Sources % EDL 45% Our Contribution to Reducing the Nation’s Carbon Footprint Shared generator 28% Diesel consumption 17% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Refrigerant 4% Total tCO2 saved due to environmental loans 158 tCO2 2,533 tCO2 12,771 tCO2 10,828 tCO2 23,023 tCO2 Flights 3% Courier services 2% Bank Audi contributed to reducing the nation’s carbon footprint through facilitating environmental loans granted by the Central Bank (Circular 236). In coordination with the Lebanese Centre for Energy Conservation (LCEC), as observed since 2013. These loans helped various residential, commercial Paper 1% and industrial projects emerge with reduced carbon emissions. Hence an overall saving of 23,023 tCO2 in carbon footprint due to these loans using energy efficient, solar or photovoltaic solutions. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 71 CONCORDANCE TABLE GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 102 General Disclosures Organisational Profile 102-1 Report the name of the organisation. 6.3.10. P. 7 6.4.16.4.5. 102-2 Report the primary brands, products and services. 6.8.5. P. 9, 48, 61 7.8. 102-3 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. P. 7 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where it has significant operations or that are specifically P. 7 102-4 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the Report. 102-5 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P. 7 102-6 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). P. 7 Report the scale of the organisation, including: SDG 8 P. 9, 15, 61 Total number of employees. Total number of operations. 102-7 Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations). Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations). Quantity of products or services provided. a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 66 b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. SDG 8 c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. SDG 10 d. Whether a significant portion of the organisation’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of SDG 16 102-8 the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data was compiled, including any assumptions made. A description of the organisation’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organisation’s activities, primary brands, products, SDG 8 P. 22 102-9 and services. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain P. 7 Changes in the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions. 102-10 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations). Changes in the location of suppliers and the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. SDG 8 P. 11, 59 102-11 Report whether and how the organisation applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. SDG 9 SDG 13 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or SDG 8 P. 3, 4, 6, 8, 49 102-12 which it endorses.. 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international advocacy organisations. Principle 3 P. 51 CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 72 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE Strategy 4.7. P. 3 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy for 6.2. 102-14 addressing sustainability. 7.2. 7.4.2. Ethics and Integrity 4.4. Principle 10 SDG 8 P. 1 102-16 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour. 6.6.3. SDG 16 Governance The reporting organisation shall report the following information: 6.2. P. 7 102-18 a. Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. 7.4.3. Annual Report 2017, b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. 7.7.5. p.13, refer to the website Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 5.3. P. 53 6.3.10. Principle 3 SDG 8 P. 66 6.4.16.4.5. SDG 10 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6.8.5. SDG 16 7.8. 102-42 Report the basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. 5.3. P. 53 6.7.1 6.7.2. Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an 6.7.6. P. 53 102-43 indication of whether any of the engagements was undertaken specifically as part of the Report’s preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that were raised through stakeholder engagement, including: P. 22, 53 102-44 i. How the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ii. The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice Report the following information: 5.2. P. 51 102-45 a. List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 7.3.2. 7.3.4. b. Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the Report. a. Explain the process for defining the Report’s content and the aspect boundaries. P. 51, 52 102-46 b. Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining the Report’s content. 102-47 List all the material topics identified in the process for defining the Report’s content. P. 51, 52 102-48 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. P. 51 102-49 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topic and topic boundaries. P. 51 CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 73 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. 7.5.3. P. 51 7.6.2. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report (if applicable). P. 51 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual or biennial). P. 51 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Report or its content. P. 51 The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 51 a. The claim made by the organisation, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards. Either: 102-54 i. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option; or ii. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 71 a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the Report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: 102-55 i. The number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards). ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the Report or in other published materials. iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 51 a. A description of the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Report. b. If the Report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 102-56 report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process. ii. The relationship between the organisation and the assurance provider. iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or Senior Executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. 103 Management Approach For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: 5.2. P. 57, 58 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. 6. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: 6.3.6. 103-1 i. Where the impacts occur. 7.3.1. 7.3.4. ii. The organisation’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organisation has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly 7.4.3. linked to the impacts through its business relationships. 7.7.3. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 7.7.5. For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 58 a. An explanation of how the organisation manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of Management’s approach. c. A description of the following, if Management’s approach includes that component: i. Policies. 103-2 ii. Commitments. iii. Goals and targets. iv. Responsibilities. v. Resources. vi. Grievance mechanisms. vii. Specific actions such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives. For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 58 a. An explanation of how the organisation evaluates Management’s approach, including: 103-3 i. The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Management’s approach. ii. The results of the evaluation of Management’s approach. iii. Any related adjustments to Management’s approach. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 74 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 200 Economic Standards Economic Performance 6.8.1 6.8.3. SDG 5 P. 9, 15, 27, 44, 61, 63 6.8.7. SDG 7 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 6.8.9. SDG 8 SDG 9 SDG 13 Market Presence 6.3.7. Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 37 6.3.10. SDG 8 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage. 6.4.3. SDG 10 6.4.4. SDG 16 6.8.1 6.8.2. Indirect Economic Impact 6.3.9. SDG 4 P. 18, 21, 27, 33, 39, Report the following information: 6.8.1 6.8.2. SDG 5 62, 63, 64, 68 a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 203-1 6.8.5. SDG 8 b. Current or expected impacts on communities and local economies, including positive and negative impacts where relevant. 6.8.7. SDG 9 c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. 6.8.9. Procurement Practices 6.4.3. P. 22 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. 6.8.1 6.8.2. 6.8.7. Anti-corruption 6.6.1 6.6.3. Principle 10 P. 11, 41, 60 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures. 6.6.6. Principle 2 300 Environmental Standards Energy Principle 7 SDG 7 P. 47, 69 Principle 8 SDG 9 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation. Principle 9 SDG 12 SDG 13 SDG 15 Emissions 6.5.5. SDG 12 P. 46, 69, 70 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). SDG 13 SDG 12 P. 46, 69, 70 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). SDG 13 SDG 12 P. 46, 69, 70 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). SDG 13 SDG 12 P. 46, 69, 70 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SDG 13 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5.3. SDG 12 P. 46, 68 CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 75 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE 400 Social Standards Employment 6.4.3. Principle 6 SDG 4 P. 37, 67 SDG 5 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. SDG 8 SDG 10 SDG 16 6.4.4. SDG 8 P. 38 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. 6.8.7. Report the following information: 6.4.4. SDG 4 P. 38, 67 a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. SDG 5 b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. SDG 8 401-3 c. Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. d. Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender. Training and Education Average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by: 6.4.7. SDG 4 P. 37, 64 404-1 i. Gender. SDG 5 ii. Employee category. SDG 8 Report the following information: 6.4.7. SDG 4 P. 64 a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. 6.8.5. SDG 8 404-2 b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. 6.4.7. SDG 5 P. 64 Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular performance and career development review 404-3 6.8.5. during the reporting period. 6.4.3. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Report the following information: 6.2.3. SDG 4 P. 9, 37, 65 a. Percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: 6.3.7. SDG 5 i. Gender. 6.3.10. SDG 10 ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old. 6.4.3. SDG 16 405-1 iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender. ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old. iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). 6.3.7. SDG 5 P. 37 6.3.10. SDG 8 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. 6.4.3. SDG 10 6.4.4. SDG 16 Human Rights Assessment Report the following information: 6.3.5. Principle 1 SDG 16 P. 11 a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Principle 2 412-2 rights that are relevant to operations. Principle 4 b. Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Principle 6 are relevant to operations. CSR REPORT 2017 EXPERTS’ CORNER 76 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area. 4.6. SDG 16 P. 11 SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Local Communities SDG 8 P. 22 G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. SDG 16 SDG 8 P. 22 SDG 9 G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. SDG 11 SDG 16 Product and Service Labeling SDG 4 P. 31, 32 G4-FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. SDG 11 Product Portfolio SDG 4 P. 22 SDG 5 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by SDG 8 G4-FS7 purpose. SDG 9 SDG 11 SDG 13 SDG 7 P. 44 SDG 8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken G4-FS8 SDG 9 down by purpose. SDG 13 SDG 15 * Principle 5: Child Labour, N/A. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS For this report all departments, branches and numerous individuals have made a significant contribution. We would like to thank them all, as well as employees and stakeholders who have participated in the assessment process, providing feedback and helping our continuous improvement. We would also like to thank our consultants for their comments and suggestions which have contributed to our efforts to integrate best practices in this report. Protecting further our environment, we have opted to have a soft version only of our full-fledged 2017 CSR Report with an executive summery in print.
