REGISTRATION DOCUMENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE MATTER, RESULTS COUNT. CONTENTS 1 Presentation of the Group and its activities 5 5AFR Capgemini and its shareholders 5.1 Capgemini share capital 277 278 1.1 Presentation of the Group 6 5.2 Capgemini and the stock market 283 1.2 Group activities 10 AFR 5.3 Current share ownership 286 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified AFR 5.4 Share buyback program 288 organization chart 16 Capgemini market and 6 1.4 Report of the Board of Directors the competitive environment 18 and draft resolutions to be presented 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 21 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 1.6 Investment and financing policies 29 of May 23, 2018 291 2 Corporate Governance Risks and 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Internal Control 31 Shareholders’ Meeting 292 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary AFR 2.1 Governance structure and composition Shareholders’ Meeting 309 of the Board of Directors 33 6.3 Summary of the financial resolutions 328 AFR 2.2 Organization and activities 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board of the Board of Directors 62 of Directors on the issuance of shares under 2.3 General organization of the Group 79 the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” employee AFR Compensation of Executive Corporate shareholding plan 329 2.4 Officers 85 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports 333 AFR 2.5 Risks and internal control 103 7 Additional information 339 3 AFR Our commitment to Social Responsibility 119 3.1 A renewed strategy: AFR 7.1 7.2 Legal information Group Management structure 340 344 “Architects of Positive Futures” 120 7.3 Historical Financial Information AFR 3.2 People and work environment 129 for 2015 and 2016 345 AFR 3.3 Social impact and digital inclusion 146 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 346 AFR 3.4 Environmental Sustainability 148 AFR 3.5 3.6 Methodology and scope for non-financial information Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, 163 8 Cross-reference table 8.1 Information required under Commission 349 appointed as independent third party, Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 350 on the consolidated human resources, 8.2 Cross-reference table for the environmental and social information Annual Financial Report 352 included in the management report 167 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report 353 4 AFR Financial information 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 171 Notes 355 consolidated results 172 AFR 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 179 AFR 4.3 Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements 247 AFR 4.4 2017 financial statements 250 AFR 4.5 Other Financial and accounting information 275 The information from the Annual Financial Report is clearly identified in the table of contents by the AFR symbol AFR II REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 2017 Registration Document Annual Financial Report A global leader in consulting, technology services and digital transformation, Capgemini is at the forefront of innovation to help its clients seize the full range of opportunities in the evolving world of cloud, digital and platforms. Building on its strong 50-year heritage and deep industry-specific expertise, the Group enables organizations to realize their business ambitions through an array of services from Création_Labrador_09.2016 strategy to operations. Capgemini is driven by the conviction that the business value of technology comes from and through people. The French version of this Registration Document (Document de Référence) was filled with the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF – the French Financial Market Authority) on March 23, 2018, pursuant to Article 212-13 of its General Regulations. It may be used in connection with a financial transaction if it is accompanied by an Information Memorandum approve by the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF – the French Financial Market Authority). This document was prepared by the issuer and engages the responsibility of its signatories. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 1 For the fiscal year 2017 Board of Directors Statutory Auditors Paul HERMELIN, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Represented by Françoise GARNIER and Richard BÉJOT Daniel BERNARD, Vice-Chairman KPMG S.A. Represented by Frédéric QUÉLIN Anne BOUVEROT Yann DELABRIÈRE Laurence DORS Carole FERRAND Robert FRETEL Siân HERBERT-JONES Phil LASKAWY Kevin MASTERS Xavier MUSCA Patrick POUYANNÉ Pierre PRINGUET, Lead Independant Director Bruno ROGER Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 2 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI Financial highlights Consolidated Financial Statements in millions of euros 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenues 10,092 10,573 11,915 12,539 12,792 Operating expenses (9,235) (9,603) (10,653) (11,099) (11,299) Operating margin * 857 970 1,262 1,440 1,493 % of revenues 8.5% 9.2% 10.6% 11.5% 11.7% Operating profit 720 853 1,022 1,148 1,183 % of revenues 7.1% 8.1% 8.6% 9.2% 9.2% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 442 580 1,124 (1) 921 (2) 820 % of revenues 4.4% 5.5% 9.4% 7.3% 6.4% Earnings per share Average number of shares outstanding during the year 158,147,868 157,855,433 168,452,917 169,450,721 168,057,561 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2.80 3.68 6.67 5.44 4.88 (1) (2) Normalized earnings per share * (in euros) 3.41 4.22 7.67 6.69 6.22 Dividend per share for the year (in euros) 1.10 1.20 1.35 1.55 1.70 (3) Goodwill at December 31 3,601 3,784 7,055 7,176 6,830 Equity attributable to owners of the Company at December 31 4,458 5,057 6,887 7,272 6,956 (Net debt)/net cash and cash equivalents * at December 31 678 1,218 (1,767) (1,413) (1,209) (4) Organic free cash flow * at December 31 455 668 815 1,071 1,080 Average number of employees 128,126 137,747 161,268 185,593 196,755 Number of employees at December 31 131,430 143,643 180,639 193,077 199,698 (1) Including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of €476 million. (2) Including tax income (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings. (3) Subject to approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018. (4) Before the €235 million exceptional contribution to a UK pension fund. (*) The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin, normalized earnings per share, net debt/net cash and cash equivalents and organic free cash flow) are defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures and broken down in Note 11 Earnings per share, Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents and Note 22 Cash flows. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 3 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 1 Presentation of the Group and its activities 1.1 Presentation of the Group 6 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified 1.1.1 Capgemini at a glance 6 organization chart 16 1.1.2 Group milestones 8 1.1.3 Seven values at the heart of the Group 9 1.4 Capgemini market and 1.1.4 New brand and visual identity 9 the competitive environment 18 1.2 Group activities 10 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 21 1.2.1 Areas of expertise and sectors of activity 10 1.5.1 Acceleration in digital and cloud 21 1.2.2 Global portfolio of innovative offers 11 1.5.2 Collaborative innovation: Applied Innovation 1.2.3 Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) 11 Exchange 23 1.2.4 Digital Transformation Institute (DTI) 11 1.5.3 Driving growth through competitiveness 23 1.2.5 Ecosystem of technology partners 12 1.5.4 Major contracts 23 1.2.6 Organization centered around client needs 14 1.5.5 Honors and awards 25 1.2.7 Analysis of 2017 revenue and operating margin 15 1.5.6 Thought leadership 27 1.6 Investment and financing policies 29 1.6.1 Investment policy 29 1.6.2 Financing policy and financial rating 29 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 5 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.1 Presentation of the Group 1.1 Presentation of the Group 1.1.1 Capgemini at a glance — Capgemini People matter, results count. Driven by the conviction that the business value of technology comes from and through people Global, entrepreneurial At the forefront and multicultural of innovation 200,000 employees in We provide unparalleled opportunities to spur innovation through our Applied Innovation Exchange, 40+ a network of 16 centers located throughout the world. countries from 120+ nationalities We leverage a global ecosystem of partners, including high-profile technology players and specialized startups. 7 founding values Honesty Boldness We publish industry-recognized studies on the latest digital trends, notably through Trust our Digital Transformation Institute, a network of dedicated research centers in India, Freedom the UK, and the US. Fun Modesty Team spirit We share and discuss our business insights with industry peers through Expert Connect, at the heart of our online community with more than 1,000 active everything we do Capgemini members. 6 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.1 Presentation of the Group 1 — AT A GLANCE — Enabling clients to realize their business ambitions through an array of services from strategy to operations Leading expertise in consulting, Delivering solid and technology services sustainable performance and digital transformation Key service oﬀers 2017 full year results • Digital Strategy, Innovation, and Transformation Consulting • €12.8bn 11.7% • Digital Manufacturing • revenue operating margin • Digital Customer Experience • • Insights & Data • Engineering Services • €1.1bn • Cloud Choice • Infrastructure Services • • Application Development and Maintenance • Free cash-flow • Testing • Automation • • Business and Platform Services • • Cybersecurity • Architects of Positive Futures • Diversity • Strong sectorial expertise Building an inclusive workplace, with dedicated oﬀers attracting and retaining a diverse workforce • Consumer Products & Retail, Distribution • Digital inclusion • & Transportation • Using our skills to help societies address the impact • Energy, Utilities & Chemicals • of the digital and automation revolution • Financial Services • • Manufacturing, Automotive & Life Sciences • • Environmental sustainability • • Public Sector • Minimizing our environmental impacts, • Telecommunications, Media & Entertainment • building business resilience against climate change, and supporting clients with their sustainability challenges Countries where the Group operates Applied Innovation Exchange locations REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 7 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.1 Presentation of the Group 1.1.2 Group milestones 1967 Creation of Sogeti by Serge Kampf, on October 1, in Grenoble (France). 1970 Sogeti and OBM (Organization Bossard Michel) agree to combine IT and Consulting Services. 1971 Creation of Eurinfor, “facilities management” company, by Sogeti with the Cofradel group and Lyonnaise de Banque. 1973 7th “Sogeti Rencontres” in Djerba (Tunisia), the last internal gathering to which all Group employees (440) are invited. 1974 Sogeti takes control of C.A.P. (the leading French IT services company at the time) and of Gemini Computer Systems (US). 1975 January 1 marks the official birth of the CAP GEMINI Sogeti group, which, with a headcount of 1,700, becomes Europe’s top IT services company. 9th Rencontres in Istanbul (Turkey), with 270 participants. 1976 The Group moves its headquarters to 17, avenue George V, Paris. The first Annual Report is published (financial year 1975). 1977 The French authorities veto the acquisition of a stake in the Group by EDS. 1978 The Group takes on the US market and sets up its first “outpost” in Washington DC (Cap Gemini Inc.). 1980 After a long tussle with SESA, the Group wins the DGT contract to produce the French electronic phonebook. 1981 The sale of SORINFOR marks the Group’s withdrawal from processing activities. 1982 Revenues exceed the one billion French franc (€150 million) mark, only half of which is generated outside France. 1984 To general surprise, Serge Kampf declares that English is to be the Group’s official language. 1985 Spectacular initial public offering of the Group’s shares on the Paris Stock Exchange (with demand 123 times the offer). 1987 The Group takes control of SESA, having held a 42% stake since 1982. 1989 The Group reports a record year-end after-tax profit of 7.4%. 1990 17th Rencontres in Marrakesh (Morocco): the 550 participants decide on an aggressive strategy including, if necessary, joining up with an industrial group. Shortly after, the Group makes several acquisitions: SCS in Germany, Hoskyns, the European leader in outsourcing activities, and two US companies (URC and Mac Group) that will make up the Group’s consulting arm. The invasion of Kuwait triggers a global economic crisis, which lasts four years. 1991 Daimler-Benz takes a 34% stake in the holding company Sogeti (which itself controls 60% of the Group). 1992 Acquisition of Volmac in the Netherlands (3,200 employees) and Progamator in Sweden (1,600 employees). GENESIS is launched at the 18th Rencontres, which brings together 700 managers in Prague (Czechoslovakia). This is the Group’s first transformation program, and mobilizes up to 5,000 employees for over a year. By the year-end, Cap Gemini – after 25 years of consecutive growth – announces the first losses in its history (it will be a similar story in 1993 and 1994). 1996 Under the combined pressure of the two other major shareholders, Serge Kampf accepts the “amalgamation” of the two-tiered control of SKIP and Sogeti within the listed company Cap Gemini Sogeti. 1997 Daimler-Benz exits from the Group’s share capital. Bossard Consultants (in which the Group has held a 49% stake for more than 20 years) is integrated into the Group’s consulting arm. Celebration of the Group’s 30th birthday during a memorable evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris. 1998 Cap Gemini rejoins the Paris Stock Exchange’s CAC 40 index (it had been on the index from August 1988 to November 1993). 2000 Acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting (employing more than 12,000 consultants). The Cap Gemini share price rises to its highest ever level of €368.9 in March, making a stock market capitalization on that day of €44.5 billion. 2002 Creation of a subsidiary specializing in local services and taking over the Sogeti name. 2003 Sogeti acquires Transiciel (7,000 employees); the Group signs a major multi-year contract with the British tax authorities and opens its first offshore production center in Mumbai, India. 2006 Launch of the I.Cube (Industrialization, Innovation, Intimacy) transformation program. 2007 Acquisition of Kanbay, a US company with a strong presence in India and specializing in Financial Services (7,000 employees). Capgemini is the main sponsor of the 6th Rugby XV World Cup. Celebratory evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris, to mark the Group’s 40th birthday. 2008 A number of small acquisitions, including Getronics PinkRoccade in the Netherlands. 2009 Acquisitions in Romania, Vietnam and Australia. Launch of five global service lines (Business Information Management, Application Lifecycle Services, Testing Services, Infostructure Transformation Services, Smart Energy Services). 2010 Acquisition of IBX in Sweden and CPM Braxis (5,500 employees) in Brazil. 23rd Rencontres in Barcelona (Spain) around the theme of La Niaque (fighting spirit). The Group ends the year with a headcount in excess of 100,000. 2011 Acquisition of eight companies, including Artesys, Avantias and Prosodie in France, and Praxis Technology in China. The Group restructures around six Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Launch of a new global service line (Mobile Solutions). 2012 Serge Kampf passes the torch of Chairman to Paul Hermelin during the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. 8 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.1 Presentation of the Group 2013 Passing away of Michel Jalabert, a Cap Gemini S.A. Board member and one of the key figures in the Group’s history since 1976, and of Odette Bernard-Colombat, the Group’s longest-serving employee and Serge Kampf’s personal assistant for over 1 fifty years. 24th Rencontres in San Francisco: the top 450 Capgemini managers gather, joined for the first time by some of the Group’s biggest technology partners, thereby confirming the Group’s position as a major player in the “Champions League” of its industry. Launch of Digital Customer Experience, a new global service line. 2014 Acquisition of Euriware in France and signing of a contract with Areva. 2015 Acquisition of IGATE in the United States: North America becomes Capgemini’s largest market. 2016 Passing away of Serge Kampf on March 15, 2016, founder of the Group. 2017 Capgemini celebrates its 50th anniversary and launches a new brand identity. The 26th Rencontres returns to Geneva, the first international city to host the internal gathering in 1971, to look back on past achievements and share a vision for the future. 1.1.3 Seven values at the heart of the Group In 1967, Serge Kampf was amongst the very first to understand Trust, meaning the willingness to empower both individuals and the added value a services company would bring to a world teams; to have decisions made as close as possible to the point where the IT market had barely emerged. He created Sogeti, where they will be put into practice. Trust also means giving which became Cap Gemini Sogeti, then Capgemini priority, within the Company, to real openness toward other Ernst & Young, and finally Capgemini, based on several major people and the widest possible sharing of ideas and information. principles that continue to guide us in everything we do today: Freedom, which means independence in thought, judgment and first and foremost, an entrepreneurial spirit, followed by a deeds, and entrepreneurial spirit, creativity. It also means passion for clients, an obsession with drawing out the best from tolerance, respect for others, for different cultures and customs: people, a commitment to being ethically irreproachable at all an essential quality in an international group. times, and extremely high expectations with regards to performance. From the very beginning, he understood that our Fun means feeling good about being part of the Company or industry is based on the contribution of both men and women one’s team, feeling proud of what one does, feeling a sense of who work hand-in-hand and share common values that cannot be accomplishment in the search for better quality and greater compromised upon. efficiency, feeling part of a challenging project. Seven values permeate Capgemini’s corporate fabric, from the Modesty, that is simplicity, the very opposite of affectation, time of their inception by our founder. These values inspire and pretension, pomposity, arrogance and boastfulness. Simplicity shape our corporate culture and professional conduct. They does not imply naivety (“simple does not mean simpleton!”); it is motivate us as a Group and as individuals. Intangible by nature, more about being discreet, showing natural modesty, common they lie at the heart of all our actions as an ethical and sense, being attentive to others and taking the trouble to be responsible company. They form the basis of Capgemini’s understood by them. It is about being frank in work relationships, reputation. having a relaxed attitude, having a sense of humor. Honesty signifies loyalty, integrity, uprightness, a complete Team spirit, meaning solidarity, friendship, fidelity, generosity, refusal to use any underhanded method to help win business or fairness in sharing the benefits of collective work; accepting gain any kind of advantage. Neither growth nor profit nor responsibilities and an instinctive willingness to support common independence have any real worth unless they are won through efforts when the storm is raging. complete honesty and probity. And everyone in the Group knows These values are embodied in Capgemini’s brand promise: that any lack of openness and integrity in our business dealings “People matter, results count”. We believe that our clients’ will be penalized at once. success does not depend on technology only, but also on the Boldness, which implies a flair for entrepreneurship and a desire women and men who give that technology life and who make all to take considered risks and show commitment (naturally linked the difference. Our approach thus enables companies and to a firm determination to uphold one’s commitments). This is organizations to respond faster to market trends, to adapt and the very soul of competitiveness: firmness in making decisions or to improve their performance. in forcing their implementation, an acceptance periodically to Truly multicultural, Capgemini works on the basis of its challenge one’s orientations and the status quo. This boldness trademark “Collaborative Business ExperienceTM”, which gives also needs to be combined with a certain level of prudence and a priority to the ability to listen, to be flexible, agile and creative — particular clear-sightedness, without which a bold manager is, in essential qualities to ensure the success of our clients. reality, merely dangerously reckless. 1.1.4 New brand and visual identity To celebrate and build on its 50-year heritage, Capgemini it. The iconic Capgemini spade is now fluid and dynamic, unveiled a new brand and visual identity in October 2017. This reflecting the evolving technology landscape and an ability to new identity reflects the unique character and strengths of the constantly adapt with the precision and accuracy that are so Group: dynamism, precision, and people. fundamental to successful client delivery. Finally, the color palette is more vibrant and invigorating. The darker blue The new logo contains a wordmark that has been handcrafted in represents the depth of experience and the dependability of a script directly inspired by Group founder Serge Kampf. people, while the lighter blue represents the new world: Combined with the redesigned spade symbol, this logo can be energetic, inspiring, and free-thinking. seen as a unique and human company signature, encapsulating the belief that technology is nothing without the people behind REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 9 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2 Group activities A global leader in consulting, technology services and digital Group enables organizations to realize their business ambitions transformation, Capgemini is at the forefront of innovation to through an array of services from strategy to operations. help its clients seize the full range of opportunities in the Capgemini is driven by the conviction that the business value of evolving world of cloud, digital and platforms. Building on its technology comes from and through people. It is a multicultural strong 50-year heritage and deep industry-specific expertise, the company of close to 200,000 team members in over 40 countries. 1.2.1 Areas of expertise and sectors of activity Capgemini organizes its business to offer a wide spectrum of with their customers. Capgemini acts as their guide to navigate expertise to the clients it serves and the markets that it shapes the changing consumer technology landscape and identify and around the world. The Group’s depth of expertise is a hallmark of implement solutions that can transform their business. The Group its capabilities: from IT infrastructure and the end-to-end provides the technology and expertise that clients need to access management of IT applications, to digital transformation and platforms that combine flexibility and speed with the latest innovation consulting. industry developments; The Group delivers global solutions across four businesses:  Energy, Utilities & Chemicals: The Group helps companies in these sectors to transform their business and meet the challenges  Consulting Services (Capgemini Consulting), which help to of constantly evolving regulatory policies, increasingly stringent enhance the performance of organizations, based on in-depth environmental standards, and landmark technology developments knowledge of client industries and processes; that are disrupting the sector. Capgemini is the world leader in  Technology and Engineering Services (Sogeti), which provide IT systems for electricity meters, or “smart meters,” and continues assistance and support to internal IT and engineering teams within to provide market-shaping thought leadership and client companies; industry-renowned expertise to these segments in countries all  Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and over the world; maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration  Financial Services (Insurance & Banking): The Group supports and application maintenance activities; the rationalization and simplification of financial institutions’  Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or applications and infrastructure. Its main fields of expertise are develop either fully or partially, clients’ IT Infrastructure systems mobility, intelligent data management, client experience (or that of a group of clients), transaction services and on demand improvement, and regulation compliance; services and/or business activities (Business Services).  Manufacturing, Automotive & Life Sciences: These activities The pace of business and technology innovation has a profound may be fertile ground for innovation, but improving influence on every actor that expects to compete in today’s competitiveness remains a constant challenge. Through its market. The digital transformation is disrupting nearly every Application Services and Business Services teams, among others, industry, and Capgemini works closely with its clients to help Capgemini enables companies in these industries to achieve them rethink their business models and customer journeys to significant savings in their business technology areas, as well as to stay one step ahead. transform and shape these industries as they evolve; To do so, Capgemini capitalizes on the complementary nature of  Public Sector: Capgemini assists administrations, companies and its diverse businesses (consulting, design, engineering, public agencies, as well as major local authorities, to implement Application Services, infrastructure) to develop digital their programs and plans for modernization, with an ever-growing transformation solutions for its clients’ activities through a focus on digital; targeted, sector-based approach. The Group has created  Telecommunications, Media & Entertainment: Operators in this expert panels for each sector, comprised of experienced sector are often faced with challenges resulting from digital managers who directly collaborate with clients to establish a disruption, including competition from emergent competitors and foundation for their growth and transformation. the saturation of networks due to the explosion of content. The Group cultivates expertise across six major sector groupings: Having supported the sector grouping for over thirty years, Capgemini offers access to talented thought leaders who provide  Consumer Products, Retail, Distribution & Transportation: As a rich knowledge of telecommunications, digital content, and consumer expectations are quickly evolving, many companies are delivery expertise. witnessing revolutionary changes in how their brands interact 10 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.2 Global portfolio of innovative offers 1 Over the past few years, Capgemini has strategically shaped its  Cybersecurity helps clients strengthen their enterprise portfolio of innovative products and services to help its clients security as they undergo their digital transformation journey. successfully make the jump into the digital era. This includes helping them to define and implement their cybersecurity strategy, while protecting their IT, enterprise The Group is constantly adapting and strengthening its catalog systems, and connected devices; of products and services across different sectors and businesses:  Digital Customer Experience helps companies to identify and define their digital strategy and then select the most  ADMnext (Application Development and Maintenance) appropriate platforms and solutions to optimize the client delivers a wealth of service options focused on increasing experience. This service is often complemented by mobility business agility, expanding the business value of applications, solutions, which increase accessibility for end users across all and cutting cost across the client enterprise environment; mobile devices;  Automation Drive is a key enabler of competitiveness and is  Digital Manufacturing helps clients in the industry and designed to help companies and organizations achieve the energy sectors make the transition toward the complete efficiency, productivity, quality, and agility that automated digitalization of their production tools and processes, aligned and intelligent, or smart systems, offer today. The service line with the current revolution known as Industry 4.0. brings together;  Insights & Data enables companies and institutions to derive  Cloud Choice is a complete portfolio of services that deliver a meaningful insights about their business by using data to their cloud-first way of working for the enterprise. Through a full advantage. This includes managing and analyzing vast combination of advisory, applications and infrastructure quantities of data using proven Capgemini methodologies to services, the offer helps overcome the constraints which limit facilitate decision-making processes; cloud adoption, and enable a transformation from legacy to cloud technology. This increases clients’ capacity to absorb  Testing Services offer industrialization solutions for testing innovation, equipping them to adapt and stay relevant in a and quality assurance of software, in particular for mobile and fast-paced digital world; social applications. 1.2.3 Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) The Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) is Capgemini’s global The Applied Innovation Exchange relies on Capgemini’s ability to platform designed to enable enterprises to discover relevant both tackle the challenges of its client’s sectors, and to select the innovations; to contextualize and experiment with them within emerging technologies that are most suited to each specific need. their specific industry; and to deploy, adopt, and sustain Clients are given the opportunity to test out the most innovative innovation globally. The AIE leverages a framework for action, a technologies related to the Internet of Things, artificial network of exchange locations, and a high-performance intelligence, data analysis, cloud, cybersecurity and even engagement experience with a global curated ecosystem of cutting-edge computing to facilitate digital transformation. The partners and startups to proactively plan for shifts in technology 16 AIEs (Bordeaux, Grenoble, Lille, London, Marseille, Melbourne, and disruptions in business. The AIEs provide a platform for Mumbai, Munich, New York, Paris, San Francisco, Singapore, clients to learn how to apply innovation at the right speed and Stockholm, Toronto, Toulouse, and Utrecht) are networked, scale, in a secure and sustainable manner. meaning that clients in any region benefit from industry expertise developed in any center. 1.2.4 Digital Transformation Institute (DTI) Drawing on a worldwide network of experts, academics, and mastered their digital transformation. It often partners with technology partners, the Digital Transformation Institute (DTI) is major institutions, such as MIT, and cooperates with leading Capgemini’s in-house think tank on all things digital. With startups across the world. dedicated research centers in the UK, USA, and India, the DTI For a list of key reports and studies published in 2017, see produces numerous publications each year on the latest digital section 1.5.6. trends, innovation, disruption and businesses who have REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 11 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.5 Ecosystem of technology partners Capgemini has always forged strategic partnerships with In addition to these new initiatives, Capgemini continues to build high-profile technological players and startups with specialist its innovation-centric ecosystem which now contains over skills. The Group adopts an independent posture in order to 200 participants covering a range of subjects including artificial select on a case-by-case basis those partners that offer the best intelligence, deep learning, data analytics, augmented/virtual response to its client’s expectations and challenges. reality, cybersecurity, digital, and FinTech technologies. In this context, the Group constantly renews a flexible and Capgemini aggressively rotates its offerings portfolio. In 2017, forward-looking roster of partners, many of which directly for example, the Group drove several joint initiatives with its engage through the Capgemini Applied Innovation Exchange, partners to better help clients manage and accelerate their and in doing so, represent a significant asset in terms of helping digital transformation journey: clients quickly turn innovation into valuable, business-focused  “Fast Digital 4 Discrete Industries” with SAP: This suite of solutions. solutions deploys an agile methodology based on Capgemini’s Capgemini has a global sales and delivery partner network with highly successful Digital Transformation Framework, tailored companies whose solutions are complementary to its own. Its for the discrete manufacturing industry (e.g. Industrial areas of expertise, in collaboration with the products and Machinery & Components, Aerospace & Defense, High Tech, services offered by its partners, allows Capgemini to build new and Automotive); and valuable business solutions for its clients in less time and  “Cognitive IoT” with IBM: In line with the market shift with a degree of accuracy not possible without this approach. towards cloud and digital, this solution suite addresses the growing need to conduct smart analytics on the explosive Capgemini’s partnerships and ecosystems provide the crucial amounts of Big Data generated by connected devices; synergy necessary to solve the toughest challenges of its clients, be it in new business model creation, new technology solution  “Cloud Native Transformation” with Microsoft and implementation, or progression into new global markets. These Pivotal: This solution accelerates digital transformation by partnerships and ecosystems are generally non-exclusive and can helping clients to transform existing applications to the cloud, generate revenue from both the implementation and resale of as well as to build new applications directly in the cloud for related products and services. high-quality, agile software at startup speeds;  “Cloud migration” with Amazon Web Services (AWS): This range of market solutions focuses on a cloud-first strategy to enable growth, innovation, cost-efficiency, and business model disruption. 12 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities Capgemini’s global ecosystem includes the following key partners:  Adobe  Juniper Networks 1  Amazon Web Services  Lenovo  AppDynamics  Microsoft  Appian  Mulesoft  Backbase  NetSuite  Blueprint  OpenText  Blueprism  Oracle  BMC  Palo Alto Networks  Cisco  Pega  Citrix  Pitney Bowes  Cloudera  Pivotal  CA Technologies  PTC  Dassault Systems  Redhat  Dell Technologies  RSA  Duckcreek  Salesforce  Fireeye  SAP  Forgerock  SAS  Fortinet  Schneider Electric  GE Digital  Siemens  Gemalto  Sitecore  Google  Software AG  Guidewire  Talend  Hortonworks  Temenos  HPE  Trend Micro  HPI  UI Path  IBM  Virtustream  Infor  VMware  Informatica  Workday  Intel  Workfusion REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 13 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.6 Organization centered around client needs Capgemini is organized at the global level into major  Financial Services develops and promotes Group offers operational units (Strategic Business Units, or SBUs) to provide dedicated to financial services and manages the business the best response to client expectations and market activities of clients in this sector, in close coordination with all developments: other entities;  Capgemini Consulting is renowned for strategy and  Business Services comprises business process services that transformation consulting, particularly within digital serve as the backbone of the operations of most enterprise transformation. The unit enhances the performance of businesses today; organizations based on intimate client relationships and  LatAm (Latin America) encompasses the Group’s operations in-depth knowledge of client industries and processes; in Latin America covering Application Services and  Sogeti, with a presence in approximately fifteen countries, Infrastructure Services (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and brings expertise and client delivery experience in the areas of Mexico). technology and engineering services;  Cloud Infrastructure Services helps clients build—what has Rightshore®: A model for globalized, distributed become over time—the foundation for their digital and client delivery business platforms. The Cloud Infrastructure Business enables Capgemini’s Rightshore® industrial model is a unique asset, clients to unlock the agility and innovation they need to enabling the Group to provide clients with the right resources, in achieve growth; the right place, at the right time. It is also a powerful catalyst for  Application Services One and Application Services Two competitiveness, for both the Group itself and the solutions it are two SBUs that encompass, as two distinct geographic sells to clients. The guiding principle is the ability to mobilize, at entities, systems integration and application maintenance any moment, the most suitable teams and technical resources to capabilities (outside of Financial Services activities). AppsOne meet the needs of clients, no matter where they are in the world. and AppsTwo strive to transform their markets and help clients innovate by devising, developing, implementing, and maintaining a client’s business and technology landscape; 14 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.7 Analysis of 2017 revenue and operating margin 1 Breakdown of revenue by region and operating margin* (Op. Margin) as a percentage of revenue 8% 31% Asia-Pacifc North America and Latin America (Op. Margin = 13.5%) (Op. Margin = 9.8%) 27% Rest of Europe (Op. Margin = 12.0%) 13% United Kingdom and Ireland (Op. Margin = 15.1%) 21% France (Op. Margin = 9.9%) Breakdown of revenue by business and operating margin* (Op. Margin) as a percentage of revenue 5% 18% Consulting Services (Op. Margin = 11.2%) Other Managed Services (Op. Margin = 9.2%) 15% Technology and Engineering Services (Op. Margin = 13.6%) 62% Application Services (Op. Margin = 12.9%) Breakdown of revenue by sector 7% 4% Telecommunicatoin, Other Media & Entertainement 11% Energy, Utilities 27% and Chemicals Financial Services 16% Consumer products, Retail, Distribution 14% and Transportation Public sector 21% Manufacturing, Automotive and Lifes Sciences (*) The operating margin is an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group (see Note 3 to Capgemini’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 15 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The Group performs its business activities in more than forty Finally, it is Group policy not to own its business premises, except countries and through subsidiaries of which the main are listed in in India where the significant growth and workforce Note 32 of the consolidated financial statements. concentration justify real estate property. The other Group subsidiaries rent their business premises from third-party lessors. The parent company, Capgemini SE, defines the strategic There is no relationship between these lessors and the Group objectives of the Group via its Board of Directors, and ensures and its senior executive management. their implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Capgemini SE contributes, in particular, to the financing of its subsidiaries, The sole real estate assets owned by the Group are: either in the form of equity or loans. Finally, it makes the  a building owned by SCI Paris Étoile and housing Capgemini trademarks and methodologies it owns available to its SE’s headquarters, located at Place de l’Étoile, 75017 Paris; subsidiaries, notably “Deliver”, and receives royalties in this respect.  the Group’s international training center in Gouvieux owned by a real estate limited liability company, “Immobilière Les Capgemini SE holds: Fontaines”; and  the entire capital of an inter-company service company,  nine campus located in India (situated in Mumbai, Bangalore, Capgemini Service S.A.S.; Hyderabad, Chennai and Noida).  the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S., which operates the campus Serge Kampf Les Fontaines, housing the Group’s international training center; as well as operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly via regional holding companies. The main operating subsidiaries are presented in the simplified organization chart below. 16 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The organization chart of the main operating subsidiaries (reporting revenues in excess of €50 million) and the Group’s support and resource subsidiaries, directly or indirectly wholly-owned by Capgemini SE, with the exception of Capgemini Brasil S.A. and its 1 subsidiary (held 78.61%, representing 76.83% of voting rights) and Capgemini Technology Services India Ltd. and its subsidiaries (held 99.77%, representing 99.77% of voting rights) is presented below. CAPGEMINI SE Capgemini SCI Service S.A.S. Paris Etoile Capgemini Immobilière Gouvieux S.A.S. Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA-PACIFIC & LATIN AMERICA UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Australia Capgemini Capgemini UK plc Technology Deutschland America, Inc. Services S.A.S. Nederland B.V. Pty Ltd. Brasil S.A. GmbH Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Sogeti Sogeti Deutschland CPM Braxis Outsourcing Technology Services Technologies LLC Services S.A.S. Nederland B.V. GmbH Tecnologia, Ltda. India Ltd Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Belgium Capgemini Capgemini Mexico Outsourcing Canada Inc. Consulting S.A.S. N.V./S.A. (China) Co., Ltd S. de R.L. de C.V. Services GmbH Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Government Sogeti France S.A.S. Sogeti Solutions LLC Luxembourg S.A. Suisse S.A. Singapore Pte. Ltd. Sogeti High Capgemini Capgemini Polska Inergi Inc. Tech S.A.S. España S.L. Sp. z.o.o. New Horizon System Capgemini Capgemini Prosodie S.A.S. Solutions Inc. Italia S.p.A. Sverige AB Capgemini Sogeti Sogeti Ireland Sverige AB Limited Capgemini Norge AS Capgemini Finland Oy REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 17 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.4 Capgemini market and the competitive environment 1.4 Capgemini market and the competitive environment Capgemini Group is active in the global professional IT services  Western Europe is the second largest market representing market, which as defined by Gartner (1) grew by approximately approximately 26% of worldwide activity at $250 billion. 4.3% in 2017. The IT services market has a global value of  Rest of Europe, Eurasia, Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific approximately $930 billion. and Latin America makes up the balance at $260 billion.  North America is the largest global market representing The below table approximates Capgemini market sizing. approximately 46% of worldwide activity at $420 billion (2). Capgemini United Kingdom Asia Pacific and Market North America France and Ireland Rest of Europe Latin America Size of market $420B $30B $80B $140B $260B Top 5 Capgemini Accenture, Accenture, Competitors in Cognizant, Deloitte, Accenture, Atos, CGI, Accenture, CGI, IBM, Accenture, Deloitte, Cognizant, Deloitte, Regional Market IBM and TCS IBM, Sopra Steria Infosys and TCS IBM, Tieto and TCS IBM and TCS Capgemini Group competes primarily in six sectors, which are listed in section 1.2.1. Observations on the market  The worldwide consulting market is worth nearly $160 billion  Capgemini sees a growing addressable market (3) beyond the in total according to Gartner. In this cyclical market, Capgemini “traditional” Chief Information Officer (CIO) perimeter driven maintains strong market positions notably in the business and by the business CXOs notably with: technology consulting areas. ❚ The Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) whose spend on  The combined worldwide implementation and IT outsourcing technology continues to increase notably due to the growth market is estimated to be worth a total of approximately $520 of digital marketing which has become a key enabler for the billion according to Gartner. The system integration and CMO to deliver his “end to end customer experience“. The outsourcing markets are more predictable and activities are IT spend on Digital Marketing is largely incremental to the based on long term relationships with clients. traditional IT budget.  The combined worldwide business process management, ❚ The Chief Operating Officer (COO) and/or Manufacturing hardware and customer software market is estimated to be Executives control approximately 5% of spend across worth a total close to $250 billion according to Gartner. operations and process. There is a growing focus on enabling an Industry 4.0 delivery model, through increased efficiency, intelligent production and ongoing product customization (to meet changing consumer demands). Here again the IT spends is largely incremental to the traditional IT budget. (1) a global market analyst specialising in the IT sector. (2) Source: Gartner Forecast: IT Services by Geography, 2015-2021, 4Q17 Update (Dec 2017) (3) Source: Gartner Forecast: IT Services by Geography, 2015-2021, 4Q17 Update (Dec 2017), Gartner CMO Spend Survey 2016-2017 (Oct 2016) and CMO Spend Survey 2017-2018 (Oct 2017) Note on Capgemini taxonomy for market comparisons: Gartner’s market segmentation (consulting, implementation, IT outsourcing, business process management, hardware and custom software support) broadly reflects the Group’s businesses, except that development and integration activities (i.e., implementation) and systems management activities align together in the Application Services business (with some overlaps) For example, the applications market encompasses both development and maintenance activities and is at the crossroads of two Group businesses (Application services and Technology and Engineering Services), as is IT infrastructures. 18 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.4 Capgemini market and the competitive environment Competition 1 Our global marketplace is rapidly evolving and we compete with  innovation – through partner ecosystems, services and a variety of organizations that offer solutions comparable to product offerings; ours:  reputation and integrity – in both testimonials and client  Traditional Global Players (e.g., Accenture, IBM, Atos or CGI) references;  Advisory Service Players (e.g., Deloitte, KPMG, PwC or EY)  value – in adding and improving business performance;  Indian Players (e.g., TCS, Infosys, Cognizant, Wipro or HCL);  pricing – in contractual terms and pricing;  Regional and Boutique Players (e.g., Sopra Steria or Tieto)  service and scope – in bringing the right people and products to clients;  We also observe the emergence of Digital Agencies focused on Digital Marketing for instance SapientRazorfish or  delivery – quality results on a timely basis; divisions of global players such as Accenture Interactive or  global reach and scale – in providing the right level of Deloitte Digital. presence in key markets. The main competitive factors that we believe exist in the Our clients typically use multiple service providers to address marketplace are: their professional services needs from strategy to operations.  ability to deliver – in both individuals and products;  expertise in business, technology as well as industry knowledge; Market Trends As the market continues to evolve and clients look to harness the  Business platforms to drive efficacy and efficiency and enable benefits of new solutions with an emergence of new enterprise the emergence of new business models. buyers, it is important to stay close to our clients’  All powered by “the new” infrastructure (cloud centric) while decision-makers, which now include marketing and operational leveraging existing Core IT assets and investments. Executives, to meet their new needs. This reflects a buoyant and natural market position for Capgemini. This disruption is underpinned by: Rapid innovation continues across all market segments.  Digital transformation is now the new normal, and is Consultants and Systems Integrators are acquiring and building consistently driving a new digital landscape for the enterprise new capabilities to address the broader digital spend. IT service based on the key foundations of CORE IT. According to providers are re-focusing efforts on new solutions and setting up Gartner, through 2020 50% of IT services market growth will digital centers of excellence to be more responsive to client be directly attributable to digital technologies. needs. In addition, intelligent automation is pushing clients to  The infusion of increasingly ubiquitous and transversal digital assess their core processes and address the opportunity for enablers (AI, deep learning, analytics, automation, DevOps, increased digitization. public or hybrid cloud) whilst protecting from cyber-attacks. We see a market where, as a function of digital transformation,  The speed of adoption of new technologies is changing digital spend alignment has been disrupted from functional silos business behavior as the new products and services become a to a cluster orientated around the value chain: major driver for companies’ profitability, thus bringing CMO/CXOs to join the CIO (IT) in exploring and applying new  The true “end to end customer experience” (digital customer technologies across the value chain. Therefore, CMO/CXOs engagement, digital marketing, systematic and algorithmic have an increasing influence on technology spend. use of data, interactions on all platforms/channels, AI, etc.).  The industrial revolution (with digital manufacturing). Technological needs related to marketing expenses (mainly managed by CMO) Marketing budgets are rising as CMOs are increasingly  the provider landscape for Digital Agencies is extremely responsible for the end to end customer experience (1): complex with high levels of fragmentation;  CMOs are increasingly reliant on service providers to realize  CMOs are increasingly looking for partners who can provide a their marketing outcomes; full range of end to end customer engagement and experience services.  CMOs are allocating 10% of budget to spend on innovation according to Gartner; (1) Source: Gartner CMO Spend Survey 2016-2017 (Oct 2016) and CMO Spend Survey 2017-2018 (Oct 2017) REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 19 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.4 Capgemini market and the competitive environment Industry 4.0 The industrial revolution will become an increasingly fertile  The deployment of IoT solutions for both the connected market space, with spend controlled by a range of CxO home, with multiple devices controlled by mobile and voice, stakeholders. and industry, supporting highly connected and intelligent production capabilities. For example, autonomous vehicles have a tremendous complexity, each car having millions of lines of IT code embedded  The rise of artificial intelligence driving increases in both in each car combined with sensors and computing power. business and consumer productivity, and increasingly embedded into both existing and new IT platforms & Capgemini is well positioned to bring value across the end to end applications. customer experience and Industry 4.0 space.  Automation as a driver for time to market, scalability, quality Core IT remains the largest market with growth opportunities and cost reduction. linked to the enhancement, upgrade or replacement of existing systems driven by business requirements (regulation, new  Continued growth of the “data disruptors” – e.g. Amazon, and markets…) or technology evolution such as Artificial Intelligence, Alphabet with their highly capable, data driven ecosystems Automation, Blockchain, Cybersecurity or Cloud.  Growth of cloud technologies and services (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, Going forward, we foresee an increasing importance of digital BPaaS) coupled with the requirements for integration and and cloud in the Group offering mix (38% of Group revenue in security. 2017). According to Gartner market reports, over 50% of growth  The integration of virtual personal assistants (e.g. Alexa, Siri, in IT spending in the next 5 years will come from digital and cloud. Google assistant) into both services and devices (e.g. office, hotel room, cars, kitchens). Therefore, we should notice the following in the forthcoming years:  Continued experimentation with Blockchain  An increasingly fragmented marketing technology and Such disruptions continue to contribute to our clients’ desire to advertising technology market: CMO and digital stakeholders harness disruption to enable Digital Transformation at each level will seek guidance and support in how they execute their end of their business. The ongoing challenge of integration – to end customer experiences. developing, connecting, integrating, testing and securing the existing IT investments and new capabilities presents significant  The increase in complex, embedded systems for autonomous opportunity for systems integrators as clients look for the scale, vehicles (cars, trucks, drones and in the longer term, aircraft experience and reach to execute at an enterprise level. and shipping). 20 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 1 Capgemini recorded an excellent performance in 2017, e-commerce and digital design, including the acquisition of the reflecting its ability to create value for its clients and capture the digital customer engagement firm, LiquidHub, announced at the demand fueled by their digital transformation. In parallel the start of 2018. Group pursued a profitable growth journey, witnessing revenue In 2018, the Group will continue to develop its service portfolio growth higher than the objective set and ending the year with while strengthening its sectoral expertise. With very good momentum, particularly in North America, its largest 200,000 employees, 57% of whom are located across a global market. The operating margin rate continued to progress network of delivery centers, the Group intends to continually towards the medium-term ambition of the Group. invest in its talent through sustained training. Finally, together Throughout the year, Capgemini won significant contracts to with the Group Board of Directors, Capgemini has redefined its help its customers to attain their objectives in terms of both corporate social responsibility priorities with specific and productivity and innovation. The Group enriched its offerings in quantifiable commitments in the areas of diversity, these areas with several bolt-on acquisitions, particularly in environmental protection, and digital inclusion. 1.5.1 Acceleration in digital and cloud Capgemini is in a strong position to continue to harness the  Lyons Consulting Group is an award-winning digital and potential of digital, with leading companies increasingly viewing global commerce service provider (comparable to Itelios) with the Group as the partner of choice for their digital an established expertise in Salesforce Commerce Cloud in the transformation. This strong acceleration in digital and cloud US; continues to drive growth across Capgemini. In 2017, digital and  LiquidHub is a recognized leader in digital customer cloud revenues reached close to €5 billion and accounted for engagement. The firm designs and delivers solutions across 38% of total Group revenue, representing 24% year-on-year the entire customer lifecycle (including marketing, sales, growth at constant exchange rates. commerce, and services) and boasts remarkable experience Capgemini partners with the world’s leading brands to define and across the healthcare and financial services sectors. This deliver their digital ambition, new business models, and agile addition was announced in March 2018. operations. In these exciting areas, clients expect a comprehensive These acquisitions help strengthen the Group’s core digital and range of services and a quick return on investment. Capgemini cloud offers: meets these expectations by offering the perfect combination of business lines, particularly in consulting and applications services, an in-depth knowledge of its clients’ business needs, and an Digital Customer Experience intimate understanding of how to best apply innovation. In a world where new technologies drive new behaviors, it’s no longer enough to rely on products as the critical differentiator; To further accelerate the evolution of its portfolio, what counts nowadays is the ability to provide a compelling, Capgemini strengthened its end-to-end capabilities in digital, engaging customer experience. To do so requires an extensive cloud, innovation, business, and IT transformation services knowledge of a company’s customer ecosystem, and through a series of bolt-on acquisitions in 2017 and early 2018: necessitates a radical transformation of the organization and its  TCube Solutions is an IT services firm specialized in property IT systems. Capgemini is fully equipped to handle this complexity and casualty insurance software and services; because it encompasses transformation consultancy, customer  Idean combines expertise in user experience (UX), customer experience design, and the integration of IT systems, which are experience (CX), and digital strategy with a commitment to becoming increasingly intelligent and adaptive. The Digital providing clients with user-centered, digital-first solutions; Customer Experience service line draws from its full range of expertise across all other service lines (including Insights & Data,  Itelios is a European consulting firm specialized in connected, Digital Manufacturing, Cybersecurity, and Cloud) to enable omnichannel commerce and a leading provider of Salesforce companies to undergo a full, end-to-end transformation. Commerce Cloud services in France; Today, the Group is a recognized leader in the areas of consumer products, retail, distribution, finance, insurance and automotive. In 2017, the Group’s expertise in these areas was reinforced thanks to key acquisitions of Idean, Itelios and Lyons Consulting Group. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 21 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 Insights & Data As people and things become more and more connected via the  Modernizing the applications portfolio. Legacy applications Internet of Things, insights from rich, real-time data will act as can be replaced with Software as a Service (SaaS) and pre-built the most effective driver of business competitiveness in the solutions on the public cloud. Applications that have been decades to come. In such a context, the role of the Insights & migrated to the cloud can also be modernized while Data service is to provide clients with relevant actionable insights implementing a full DevOps model; to their business and ensure they are delivered at the right time  Becoming a nimble enterprise: Enterprises are increasingly to the right decision centers. To this end, the Group combines developing cloud-native applications and aiming to deploy three fields of expertise: data collection, in particular from software into production more rapidly. The integration of sensors; conversion of data, first into useful information and existing applications in the cloud leveraging Platform as a then into business insights; and finally, the creation of Service (PaaS), Integrated Platform as a Service (iPaaS), and IT platforms to manage Insights & Data. DevOps also delivers new services and APIs to capture new business opportunities. Digital Manufacturing  Securing digital transformation by protecting critical Digital—and more particular the Internet of Things—is changing business resources. the game for manufacturers. The exciting new field is replete The Group’s portfolio of services addresses the full spectrum of with smart and connected products, assets, and operations clients’ needs, from forming a cloud strategy, to migrating, offering the potential for productivity gains, cost savings, and developing and integrating applications, deploying SaaS, and increased revenue. Transforming digitally, however, demands providing Apps, Infra and cloud managed services. This is new thinking as operations and information technology underpinned by an ecosystem of partners including AWS, Azure, converge. Capgemini’s Digital Manufacturing service supports Google, Salesforce, SAP, Mulesoft, Dell EMC, IBM, Oracle, and HP. this objective by meeting two key needs: the optimization of industrial operations management (remote management, In May 2017 the Group published Cloud native comes of age, a preventive and proactive maintenance, etc.) and the thought leadership report based on a survey of over configuration of intelligent production processes, factories, and 900 business and IT leaders worldwide. The findings revealed infrastructure. As a provider of both technological and that the proportion of new enterprise apps that are cloud-native consulting expertise, the Group is one of the few players that is set to double by 2020. Additionally, in the Cloud Choice brings together Operations Technology (OT) and the Company’s podcast series, Capgemini experts explored how cloud-native IT systems to provide expertise in the mechanical and electronic development was changing the dynamics of business, design of products, as well as in the onboard telematics for data interviewing thought leaders from Pivotal, AWS, Forrester, Uber, collection. Capgemini’s worldwide presence also makes it a and Cloud Foundry Foundation. partner of choice to support manufacturers in widespread Group expertise in these areas has led to multiple projects, locations, with the same quality of service across the globe. including with Enexis Groep (the energy network provider in the Netherlands) to transform more than 200 enterprise applications Cloud and Cybersecurity to a public cloud environment; and with Schlumberger in North Five to ten years ago, most enterprises saw the cloud primarily as America (the world's leading provider of technology for reservoir an enabler of cost reduction, while also improving the agility and characterization, drilling, production, and processing to the oil elasticity of their infrastructure. Today CIOs increasingly see the and gas industry) to secure a cloud and migration project to cloud as an enabler of top-line revenue growth, digital Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Microsoft Azure. innovation, and business agility and velocity. The Group supports clients in all stages of their journey to becoming cloud-first enterprises, but focuses on three types of transformation:  Migrating applications to public cloud and modernizing the on-premise data center. Automating the provisioning of infrastructure and deployment of applications delivers a seamless, self-service experience in a hybrid, multi-cloud environment; 22 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 1.5.2 Collaborative innovation: Applied Innovation Exchange 1 The world of tech moves fast. To help organizations cope with a innovative business outcome their organizations require. The paradigm that demands continuous innovation, Capgemini offers network continued its expansion in 2017 with three new the discipline and global platform of its Applied Innovation openings in New York, Singapore, and Mumbai, for a total of Exchange. Clients gain a guided, hands-on approach to applying sixteen innovation centers spread over four different innovation at the right speed and scale, in a secure and continents. To continue to support its clients through their sustainable manner. innovation horizon, Capgemini has plans to open additional Exchanges in 2018, as well as to launch enriched AIE products and In 2017, the AIEs hosted nearly 2,000 client visits and events an expanded global service catalog. worldwide, each engagement being enriched by a collaborative process of helping clients discover, devise, deploy, and sustain the 1.5.3 Driving growth through competitiveness Success in today’s competitive marketplace requires speed and revamp of the architect community and the upskilling of more agility to enable peak performance, reduce production costs, and than 1,500 certified architects further equipped the teams to achieve digital transformation. To that end, Capgemini’s respond better to client demands. Competitiveness program offers a portfolio of strategic tools The Group has also been actively leveraging Automation Drive, and services which are designed to ensure seamless and efficient a suite of services which bridges human and artificial intelligence delivery by one team, anytime, anywhere. The program increases to help clients transform their business through advanced the quality and productivity of Group services, as well as automation. In addition, several enabling platforms were establishes the next generation of global delivery models and introduced, including Automation Drive Store, a one-stop platforms for its clients. automation tool shop driving standardization and In 2017, several key projects provided employees with new industrialization with 100+ validated automation tools, perspectives. For example, a new global resource management Automation Drive Academy, a Group-wide learning program tool more closely aligns project resource requirements to enrolling more than 10,000 team members in less than available resources. Each expertise profile is now listed according six months, and Automation Drive Library, a global knowledge to nomenclature common to the entire Group; to date, this tool hub with an inventory of over 2,700 use cases, 700 scripts, covers 75% of Capgemini's employees. In addition, seamless 110 client case studies and more. In 2017, together with Zurich cross-deployment between units in India has contributed to Insurance Group, Capgemini was recognized with the (ISG) improved resource utilization and timeliness. The Group is also Paragon Award™ Europe in the “Collaboration” category for its deploying new technologies to enhance team productivity by joint robotic process automation projects. sharing good professional practices. To maximize the global procurement power of the Group, a The deployment of a next generation Distributed Digitized strategic sourcing initiative achieved significant and increased Delivery suite also brought an efficient collaborative delivery savings in 2017. The launch of SubCo staffing centers for environment for engagement teams and clients. This was subcontractor sourcing complemented the resource complemented by the launch of a unified Global Quality optimization efforts of the Group. End of 2017, Capgemini was Management System, enabling the Group to adhere to awarded the prestigious EIPM Peter Kraljic Award for purchasing stringent quality standards across engagements. The global excellence. 1.5.4 Major contracts Bookings totaled €12,890 million during 2017, up slightly McDonald’s Corporation compared to the previous year. The renewal or strengthening of A multi-year IT strategic provider agreement has been signed existing engagements shows that our clients trust Capgemini to with McDonald’s Corporation. Capgemini will be McDonald’s support them in their digital transformation, creation of new global IT strategic provider for restaurant and digital capabilities. business models, consolidation of operational efficiency, and Capgemini plans to open a new Global Digital Retail Center in their capacity for innovation. Below are some examples of key Chicago to support the relationship, develop and showcase contracts signed in 2017: industry-applied business innovation, and attract talent to its growing North American operations. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 23 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 UK Central Government Ikano Bank in Sweden Capgemini announced a two-year agreement with the UK Capgemini was signed to a five-year contract to provide Ikano Cabinet Office to develop a Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Bank with cost-efficient and effective operating of its IT Center of Excellence (CoE). The CoE, which is now up and landscape to support its growth and performance. Capgemini running, will help to accelerate the take-up of RPA across central will provide agile and mature IT and business transformation government by supporting departmental plans to automate services. The first step in the process is to transform the “as is” IT some of their clerical processes. Widely seen as a major enabler environment into a next Generation Information of public sector transformation, RPA describes a process in which Communications Technology services platform, that will help software is programmed to autonomously carry out basic tasks launch Ikano Bank’s key objective to transform into an across applications, reducing the burden of repetitive, simple industrialized digital operation. tasks on employees. Marine Nationale (French Navy) in France Horizon Nuclear Power in the UK Capgemini teamed up with Bertin Technologies, a CNIM Group Capgemini signed a three-year agreement with Horizon Nuclear company and manufacturer of radiological detection beacons Power to provide the Company with innovative IT services as it under the Saphymo brand, to win a French Navy contract to grows into a world leading nuclear energy company. The install a new nuclear surveillance system. As a key user of nuclear agreement will see Capgemini draw on its global expertise of technology, the French Navy will use the system to ensure work in the energy and utilities sector to develop a new Nuclear continuous surveillance environmental radiation around its main Centre of Excellence (NCoE). This will build on the success of installations. Capgemini’s French NCoE, and become an exemplar for other New Nuclear Build (NNB) projects in the UK. BSH Hausgeräte GmbH in Germany Capgemini will help BSH Hausgeräte GmbH to achieve its digital UK Environment Agency transformation vision by improving its worldwide B2B commerce The Environment Agency in the UK agreed to extend its contract portal, as well as increasing BSH’s retail efficiency and agility. In with Capgemini to continue to deliver its award-winning IT close collaboration with the client, Capgemini has already carried service for a further 18 months. The extended contract will see out a review, rebuild and rerun of BSH’s B2B order management Capgemini continue to deliver its cost effective, sustainable solution. outsourcing IT service, while allowing the Environment Agency to carry out due diligence as part of its tendering process for new C&J Energy Services in the US suppliers as it transitions to a multi-sourced supply of IT services. Since 2009, when the provision of the green IT service contract Capgemini successfully deployed EnergyPath for Houston-based first began, the project has been recognized as a leader in the C&J Energy Services, a leading provider of well completion and field – winning the 2016 ISG Paragon Award for “Pragmatic production services to oil and gas exploration and production Project Delivery”. companies. Powered by SAP S/4HANA®, EnergyPath will now serve as C&J’s single cloud-based system, allowing it to integrate and harness the power of emerging digital and cloud technologies. National Grid in the UK Capgemini was selected to consolidate legacy financial, A deal was agreed with National Grid of the UK to support the procurement, manufacturing, maintenance, and health, safety and Company through the legal separation of two of its major UK environmental systems on a single cloud-based platform to business entities following the tripartite announcement by UK streamline processes, provide real-time business intelligence and Government, the energy regulator, Ofgem and National Grid. lay the foundation for operating as one company. Taking place over a two-and-a-half-year period, it will see Capgemini Consulting support National Grid to legally separate Vattenfall in Sweden the Electricity GB System Owner (GBSO) unit from its Electricity Transmission Owner (TO) business. Operating against a back drop of increased competition, regulatory changes, and environmental pressures, Vattenfall is a large and diverse organization that has completed a number of acquisitions over the years. Capgemini was selected for a multi-year contract to optimize and implement industry best practice finance and procurement processes across Europe using its global delivery network, process automation, and the application of its Global Enterprise model (GEM) approach. 24 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 House of Fraser in the UK An agreement was reached for Capgemini to extend its current transmission system operator with its main activities in the 1 remit with House of Fraser, the UK and Ireland’s premium Netherlands and Germany. Capgemini will deliver Application department store, to support the retailer’s ongoing IT Services for TenneT’s generic IT landscape, including application simplification strategy. The three-year deal will build on development, maintenance, and innovation. seven-year relationship to provide IT infrastructure and application support, alongside additional new services designed Swedish Armed Forces to unlock further innovation across House of Fraser’s IT network. Capgemini was selected as the exclusive consulting provider to develop and manage the Swedish Armed Forces’ SAP® solutions TenneT in the Netherlands and Germany in the areas of economics, logistics, and technology. The contract In a three-and-a-half-year agreement, Capgemini has signed a has a duration of three years, with the option to extend for new contract with TenneT, a leading European electricity another four years. 1.5.5 Honors and awards 2017 saw Capgemini receive considerable recognition from SAP® Pinnacle Award: Customers’ Choice Partner independent bodies, analysts, and our technology partners. of the Year by SAP® Capgemini received the “SAP® Pinnacle Award: Customers’ Partners awards Choice Partner of the Year,” which recognizes its outstanding contributions as a customer-preferred SAP partner. The award Partner of the Year by CA Technologies marks a 10th consecutive win for Capgemini as an SAP Pinnacle Capgemini, including its subsidiary Sogeti, won two “Partner of award recipient, and the second year in a row in the Customer the Year” awards from CA Technologies in the following Choice Partner category. The win highlights Capgemini’s categories: “Global Partner of the Year: Enablement and Collaborative Business Experience™ model along with overall Engagement,” and “LatAm Partner of the Year: Top Enablement excellence in SAP project delivery especially around new wave Partner.” Each year, CA Technologies recognizes the outstanding SAP technologies such as SAP S/4 HANA, SAP Hybris, and contributions of its partner community through its awards SAP SuccessFactors. program, and celebrates their shared agenda of driving Award for Partner Excellence in Accelerating Growth innovation and business transformation for customers by Pegasystems Inc. worldwide. For the 6th year running, Capgemini won the “Pega Partner Big Data Partner of the Year by Informatica® Award for Partner Excellence in Accelerating Growth” from Pegasystems Inc., the software company empowering customer Capgemini was named as the “Big Data Partner of the Year” by engagement at the world’s leading enterprises. Capgemini was Informatica®, the enterprise cloud data management leader. presented with the award at the 2017 PegaWorld conference The award highlights Capgemini’s strengths as a market-leading held in Las Vegas. service provider on Informatica technology across all aspects of the data lifecycle, including master data management, data Global and Regional Architecture Excellence Award quality, data masking and archiving, and big data. by iCMG Growth Partner of the Year by Backbase Capgemini won the “Global Architecture Excellence Award” in the category of “Transformation and Planning” from iCMG, a Capgemini was recognized as the “Growth Partner of the Year” leading full-service enterprise & IT architecture firm. The Group by Backbase, the world’s fastest-growing FinTech software also received the “Regional Architecture Excellence Award” for company, thanks to its high number of Backbase India. Capgemini was chosen for its “Architects Revival Program,” implementations in 2017. Capgemini is deploying the innovative a transformational program to redefine the role and career path Backbase platform to deliver personalized, omni-channel of more than 6,700 architects across the Group. banking customer journeys that provide exceptional brand experiences across all digital touchpoints. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 25 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 Leader in Business Intelligence Platform Engagement Focus” market segments, for the breadth and Implementation Service Providers by Forrester Wave™ depth of its IoT portfolio. Capgemini was designated as a “Leader” in the 2017 report, “The Forrester Wave™: Business Intelligence Platform Implementation Leader in Software Testing Services by NelsonHall Service Providers.” The Group was listed among the leaders for Capgemini was positioned as a “Leader” by NelsonHall according its solid offerings and compelling business intelligence (BI) to its “Vendor Evaluation and Assessment Tool (NEAT) for strategies, as well as for delivering comprehensive BI platform Software Testing Services.” The report acknowledged implementation services for a large number of leading BI Capgemini’s strengths in being able to provide “comprehensive platforms. offerings in both digital and Agile/DevOps and complementing these with its historical consulting capabilities, backed up by Analyst awards methodologies and best practices.” Winner’s Circle in Salesforce Services, Finance Leader in Application Testing Services by Gartner & Accounting-as-a-Service, and Managed Security For the fourth consecutive year, Capgemini was identified as a Services by HfS “Leader” in Gartner’s “Magic Quadrant for Application Testing Analyst firm HfS Research placed Capgemini in their Services Worldwide.” The Group, including its Technology and 2017 Winner’s Circle across the following areas: Salesforce Engineering Services subsidiary Sogeti, was evaluated based on Services; Finance & Accounting-as-a-Service; and Managed its ability to execute and completeness of vision. Security Services. Leader in CRM and Customer Experience Leader and Star Performer for IT Outsourcing in Global Implementation Services by Gartner Insurance, Capital Markets, and Banking by Everest Capgemini was selected as a “Leader” by Gartner in its “Magic Group Quadrant for Customer Experience (CX) and Customer Relationship Management (CRM).” The Group was recognized for For the second consecutive year, Capgemini has maintained its its breadth of competencies that integrate industry expertise, CX position as a “Leader and Star Performer” in Everest Group’s “IT consulting, CRM technology and analytics capabilities, and for its Outsourcing in Global Insurance PEAK Matrix™ Assessment.” close partnerships with major CRM software providers. Capgemini achieved this recognition by demonstrating strong insurance business growth through multiple new domain-focused solutions and continued investments in its Leader in Contact Center as a Service by Gartner global network of Applied Innovation Exchanges (AIEs). In 2017, Capgemini was named a “Leader” by Gartner in its “Magic the Group was also recognized as a “Leader and Star Performer” Quadrant for Contact Center as a Service in Western Europe”. in global capital markets and global banking for its growdh in Gartner positioned vendors in the leader’s quadrant based on “a next-generation technologies, such as big data and artificial strong multichannel product and service capability that have intelligence, and for its bolstered proficiencies within the digital already amassed a large installed base of both large and small and customer experience spaces. customers.” Star Performer of the Year for both Overall IT Services Human Capital Management Excellence Awards by the as well as Banking, Financial Services and Insurance Brandon Hall Group (BFSI) Services by Everest Group Capgemini received six industry-acclaimed Brandon Hall Group Capgemini was named “Star Performer of the Year” both for Awards for the strength of its innovative learning programs and “Overall IT Services” as well as “Banking, Financial Services and commitment to the principles of digital age learning. The Insurance (BFSI) Services” in Everest Group’s “PEAK Matrix Brandon Hall Group HCM Excellence Awards are among the most Service Provider of the Year™” awards. This recognition prestigious in the corporate world, also known as the “Academy acknowledges that Capgemini earned the highest number of star Awards” of the learning industry. The Brandon Hall Group ratings in Overall IT Services throughout 2017, as well as top recognizes excellence in business schools and corporate recognition for tremendous growth in its BFSI portfolio. universities for achievements in both Human Capital Management and technology. Capgemini received the awards Leader for Big Data and Analytics Services for the sixth consecutive year. by NelsonHall Capgemini was identified as a “Leader in Big Data and Analytics Governance awards Services” according to the NelsonHall “Vendor Evaluation and Assessment Tool (NEAT)”. The report cited the Group’s strengths Golden Peacock Global Award for Excellence in in its consulting offerings, investment in accelerators, a Corporate Governance by Institute Of Directors standalone analytics business process service, its Capgemini SE was declared a winner of the 2017 Golden Peacock Insights-as-a-Service platform, along with its IGATE acquisition Global award for Excellence in Corporate Governance by the that has further strengthened Capgemini’s Big Data and Institute Of Directors of India (IOD). Regarded as a benchmark of Analytics offerings and capabilities. Corporate Excellence, the award recognizes the significant initiatives undertaken by Capgemini in recent years to enhance Leader in Internet of Things (IoT) Services its governance and sustainability practices and achieve high by NelsonHall standards of corporate excellence. Capgemini was named a “Leader in Internet of Things (IoT) services” by NelsonHall, in both the “Overall” and “Customer 26 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 1.5.6 Thought leadership 1 Capgemini produces numerous reports and thematic studies Cars Online 2017: Beyond the Car every year to help our clients anticipate challenges, analyze Why do car customers make choices, feel satisfaction, and come market trends, and understand the impact of new technologies back again? What do they think about the promise of on their business. Our Digital transformation Institute notably innovation—mobility services, connected car services, focuses on the latest trends in innovation, disruption, and digital autonomous driving, cybersecurity, and electric cars? This report transformation. reveals how to win the trust—and business—of today’s informed Below is a selection of key reports published in 2017. The full consumer. text version of these reports, along with all other Group publications, can be found at www.capgemini.com/research. World Insurance Report 2017 In its 10th edition, this report examines the emerging digital Digital Manufacturing technologies and business models under consideration by many insurers constrained by budget but seeking to keep pace with Smart Factories: How Manufacturers Can Realize today’s changing customer preferences. the Potential of Digital Industrial Revolution Smart factories utilizing digital technologies like IoT, Big Data Conversational Commerce: Why Consumers analytics, artificial intelligence, advanced robotics, 3D printing are Embracing Voice Assistants and cloud computing will transform the manufacturing Conversational commerce is an unparalleled opportunity for landscape and could add $500 billion to $1.5 trillion in value brands to build highly valuable and valued personal relationships added to the global economy in five years. with consumers and use this new-found intimacy to drive brand preference and affiliation. The Digital Utility Plant: Unlocking Value from the Digitization of Production Talent and people Capgemini surveyed 200 senior executives in utility companies with annual revenues of more than $1 billion to learn about their The Digital Culture Challenge: Closing digital plant initiatives to enhance efficiency and optimize the Employee-Leadership Gap production. Is company culture a roadblock or a catalyst for digital transformation? Does the big moment for an organization arrive Digital Customer Experience when they have embraced the fact that the prerequisite to digital transformation isn’t a technical issue, but a cultural Making the Digital Connection: Why Physical Retail change? Stores Need a Reboot Our global survey—spanning 6,000 consumers and The Digital Talent Gap: Are Companies Doing Enough? 500 retailers—found that one-third of consumers would rather This joint Capgemini and LinkedIn research shows that the digital clean dishes than visit a retail store! This report provides a gap is widening. More worrying, the talent gap is no longer just strategic framework for retailers to ensure that both their digital an HR issue, but an organization-wide phenomenon that affects and physical retail experiences match fast-changing consumer all areas of a business. expectations. Artificial intelligence and automation Loyalty Deciphered: How Emotions Drive Genuine Engagement Artificial Intelligence: Where and How to Invest This report examines how emotions play a far greater role in This study of nearly 1,000 organizations implementing artificial creating true brand loyalty than current approaches recognize. intelligence helps to shed light on the growth opportunities as Building meaningful, deep-rooted loyalty means thinking less well as counter fears that it will cause massive job losses. about points and rewards and more about driving emotional engagement. World Quality Report 2017 The World Quality Report is the only global report analyzing The Disconnected Customer: What Digital Customer application quality and testing trends across multiple industries Experience Leaders Teach Us About Reconnecting in 32 countries. This edition’s topics include agile & DevOps with Customers adoption, test excellence centers of the future, and the rise of Are you really listening to your customers? Findings from more smart test automation. than 600 executives and 3,000 consumers reveals a gap between how businesses and consumers perceive the quality of their customer experience. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 27 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 Excellent performance in 2017 Cloud World Fintech Report 2017 The World Fintech Report reveals some surprising insights into Cloud Native Comes of Age innovation, FinTech disruption and the new models and best This research reveals a new class of cloud-native leaders who, practices that the financial services industry is using to deal with driven by the need to improve velocity, collaboration, and both. customer experience, are building more than 20% of their applications in the cloud. The Discipline of Innovation This report sheds light on the gap between the creation of Innovation innovation centers and the actual innovation that results, and explore ways to bridge it. Smart Contracts in Financial Services: Getting from Hype to Reality World Retail Banking Report 2017 Smart contracts, enabled by blockchain or distributed ledgers, The 2017 World Retail Banking Report explores the future roles have been held up as a cure for many of the problems associated of banks and how they can leverage open application with traditional financial contracts, which are simply not geared programming interfaces (APIs) to prepare their strategic up for the digital age. roadmaps in a post Revised Payment Service Directive (PSD2) world. 28 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.6 Investment and financing policies 1.6 Investment and financing policies 1 1.6.1 Investment policy In 2016, the Group focused on integrating IGATE and finalized  TCube Solutions: Insurance IT services firm specializing in Duck the acquisition of two companies, a Salesforce specialist in Creek Technologies –to advance the portfolio of managed Germany (Oinio) and a consulting firm specializing in high added services for the insurance industry. value innovation in North America (Fahrenheit 212). Furthermore, the Group announced in February 2018 the In 2017, Capgemini finalized the acquisition of four companies to acquisition of LiquidHub, a recognized leader in digital customer further strengthen the Digital portfolio: engagement with strong expertise in delivering solutions across the entire customer lifecycle.  Idean: Global Digital strategy and experience design consulting; In 2018, the Group wishes to continue to strengthen its position in North America as well as selectively in Europe across  two complementary acquisistions for omnichannel high-growth Digital and Cloud domains. ecommerce – France (Itelios) and North America (Lyons Consulting Group); These acquisitions will be possible thanks to the Group’s very solid financial position, which they should not compromise. 1.6.2 Financing policy and financial rating The Capgemini financing policy is intended to provide the Group  a good level of liquidity and sustainable financial resources, with adequate financial flexibility and is based on the following which means: main criteria: ❚ maintaining an adequate level of available funds  a moderate use of debt leveraging: over the last ten years (€2,156 million at December 31, 2017), supplemented by a Capgemini Group has strived to maintain at all times a limited €750 million multi-currency syndicated credit line secured level of net debt (or even a positive net cash position) on July 30, 2014 and maturing on July 27, 2021; including in the manner in which it finances its external ❚ borrowings, with only a limited portion falling due within growth; 12 months (contractual cash flows within less than one year;  diversified financing sources adapted to the Group’s financial see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements) profile: Capgemini seeks to maintain a balance between bank representing just 17% of total contractual cash flows as at financing (including the multi-currency syndicated credit line December 31, 2017. and the use of leasing to finance IT equipment) and market financing: three euro bond issues performed in July 2015 for €2,750 million; one euro bond issue performed in November 2016 for €500 million (see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements); Financial rating The Group’s ability to access financial and banking markets and the cost of accessing such markets depend at least in part on the credit rating attributed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s which as at March 1, 2018 is BBB (positive outlook). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 29 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 30 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 2 Corporate Governance Risks and Internal Control 2.1 Governance structure and composition 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate of the Board of Directors 33 Officers 85 2.1.1 History and governance structure 33 2.4.1 Executive Corporate Officers compensation 2.1.2 Composition of the Board of Directors 36 policy 85 2.1.3 Information on the members of the Board 2.4.2 2017 Compensation of the Chairman of Directors (at December 31, 2017) 45 and Chief Executive Officer 93 2.1.4 Transactions carried out by members 2.4.3 Attendance fees and other compensation of the Board of Directors and other senior received by corporate officers 98 managers in the Company’s shares 61 2.4.4 Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares 100 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 62 2.5 Risks and internal control 103 2.2.1 Organization of the Board of Directors 62 2.5.1 Definition of the internal control and risk Activities of the Board of Directors in 2017 67 management systems 103 2.2.2 Assessment of the Board of Directors 70 2.5.2 Implementation of risk management and 2.2.3 internal control objectives for the preparation 2.2.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized and processing of financial and accounting Board Committees 72 information 106 2.2.5 Director compensation 78 2.5.3 Risk analysis 107 2.5.4 Measures implemented as part of constant 2.3 General organization of the Group 79 improvements to risk management and internal 2.3.1 Operational structure 79 control systems 117 2.3.2 Group Management 80 2.3.3 The central departments 82 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 31 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL BENCHMARK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance was prepared pursuant to:  the provisions set out in the last paragraph of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce);  the recommendations set out in the “Corporate Governance Code” issued jointly by AFEP and MEDEF (French private business associations) in December 2008 (recommendations immediately adopted by our Board of Directors as a benchmark) and most recently revised in November 2016 and its application guidelines;  as well as the rules of good governance, adopted, applied and complied with continuously by the Capgemini Group since the closing of its first fiscal year on December 31, 1968 (i.e. nearly 50 years ago!). This report was approved by the Board of Directors on February 14, 2018, following its review by the Compensation Committee and the Ethics & Governance Committee. A detailed cross-reference table is presented for the corporate governance report in Section 8.3 of the Registration Document (Cross-Reference Table for the management report). Most of the information is presented in Chapter 2. Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies revised in November 2016, the Company considers that its practices fully comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The most recent version of the AFEP-MEDEF Code updated in November 2016 and its application guidance may be consulted at www.afep.com and www.medef.com. 32 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.1 History and governance structure 2 BALANCED GOVERNANCE, TAILORED TO CAPGEMINI’S SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS History  period two (1996-2002): a changing shareholding structure th The Capgemini Group celebrated its 50 anniversary in 2017. It On May 24, 1996, as announced in January to key Group was founded in 1967 by Mr. Serge Kampf, who was still Honorary managers, Mr. Serge Kampf presented his proposals to the Chairman and Vice-Chairman at the time of his death on Shareholders' Meeting which adopted them with a large March 15, 2016. Capgemini was shaped by Mr. Serge Kampf's majority. Just after, a two-tier structure more familiar to the extraordinary qualities. He was an exceptional entrepreneur and German shareholder than the French société anonyme was a captain of industry the likes of which are rarely seen. In 1967, introduced for a four-year period, with Mr. Serge Kampf as he was among the first to understand the role of an IT services Chairman of the Management Board and Mr. Klaus Mangold company. He had taken the Group to the top of its sector when (Daimler-Benz) as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. One year he handed Mr. Paul Hermelin the Executive Management of the later, following Daimler-Benz's decision to refocus on its core Group in 2002, followed by the Chair of the Board in 2012. He businesses (a decision confirmed soon after by the spectacular built the Group based on principles that still apply today: a spirit takeover of Chrysler), this latter was replaced by of enterprise, a passion for clients, an obsession to help Mr. Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Chairman of CGIP (now the principal employees grow, ethical conduct at all times and performance at shareholder of the Group, with 30% of the share capital). At the its best. end of this four-year period, the Combined Shareholders' Meeting of May 23, 2000 held to approve the 1999 financial The story of this half-century can be split into four major periods: statements decided not to renew this two-tier governance  period one (1967-1996): 29 years of independence structure and to reinstate Mr. Serge Kampf in his duties as Sogeti was created in Grenoble in October 1967 as a “traditional” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to create at his limited liability company, managed nearly 30 years by the same request a position of General Manager, which had never really Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Serge Kampf, its existed within the Group. The first holder of this position was founder and the uncontested leader of a brilliant team of Mr. Geoff Unwin, already considered to be the Group's number managers that he formed around him and never ceased to two within the Management Board. promote. Fully conscious that the Group if it were to attain the At the end of the 1990s, having recovered its independence, increasingly ambitious objectives that he set each year could Capgemini benefited fully from the euphoria generated by the not restrict much longer its financial capacities to those of its “internet bubble”, the Year 2000 and the birth of the Euro. The founding Chairman, Mr. Serge Kampf finally accepted in Group had great ambitions. A major milestone was reached in January 1996 under friendly pressure from the two other “main” 2000 with the acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting, making shareholders (CGIP, a partner since 1988 and Daimler Benz, Capgemini the new global leader in its sector and consolidating shareholder since 1991): its positions in the United States. However, the Group was hit ❚ to propose to the Combined Shareholders' Meeting of hard by the 2001 economic crisis triggered by the burst of the May 24, 1996 the merger-absorption within Capgemini of internet bubble and difficulties integrating Ernst & Young the two holding companies that had until then enabled him Consulting. to retain majority control; In December 2001, after a difficult year whose disappointing ❚ to participate (personally in the amount of FRF 300 million) results only confirmed the threat of recession hanging over the in a share capital increase of FRF 2.1 billion, with the balance global economy at that time, the Group had 55,000 employees subscribed in equal parts (FRF 900 million) by Daimler and and reported annual revenues of around €7 billion, i.e. per capita CGIP; revenues of approximately €125,000, more than 50% above that of the first period but merely the reflection of the incorporation ❚ and finally to transfer the head office from Grenoble to in the headcount in May 2000 of 16,643 consultants from Ernst & Paris. Young. In May 1996, at the end of this initial period, the Group had Taking note of the decision made – and confirmed – by Mr. Geoff 25,000 employees (7,000 in France, nearly 4,000 in the United Unwin to retire in the near future, the Board of Directors States, some 12,000 in the triangle formed by the UK, Benelux decided, at the recommendation of its Chairman, to appoint as and the Nordic countries and around 2,000 across approximately his replacement Mr. Paul Hermelin, who became Group General 10 other countries) a 625-fold increase on its initial headcount! Manager alongside Mr. Serge Kampf, Chairman and Chief and reported annual revenues of approximately FRF 13 billion Executive Officer, on January 1, 2002. (€2 billion), i.e. per capita revenues of around FRF 520,000 (€80,000). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 33 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors  period three (2002-2012): a well-prepared transfer of power With nearly 200,000 employees, including 100,000 in India, On July 24, 2002, Mr. Serge Kampf took the initiative to Capgemini is pursuing more than ever the same objective as in recommend to the Board of Directors which accepted to split 1967: improve company performance, make them more the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as innovative and agile and become a leader for leaders. recently made possible by the New Economic Regulations Law The Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive (NRE). He considered that after creating, expanding, leading and Officer set new goals for the Group in October 2017: a better managing the Group for 35 years, the time had come for him to geographic spread, rolling out expertise and offerings across all give more power and visibility to the person he considered the Digital transformation areas and become a strategic partner of best qualified to succeed him one day. This two-man team major clients that are reputed leaders in their own business operated efficiently and in harmony for 10 years, although, sectors. At Mr. Hermelin’s recommendation, the Board of according to Mr. Serge Kampf, this was due more to the Directors appointed two Chief Operating Officers with effect relationship of trust, friendship and mutual respect between the from January 1, 2018, to support him during the management two individuals than what the NRE says regarding the respective transition phase, prepared since the end of 2016 with the roles, powers and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief support of the Board. Executive Officer. In this context Mr. Paul Hermelin indicated his wish to request Despite the heavy storm which battered the Group during the the renewal of his term of office as director at the 2018 first four years of this period, the Group invested considerable Shareholders’ Meeting and to continue exercising the duties of sums in major restructuring operations, the most obvious Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for a period representing outcome of which was the reinvigoration of all Group companies: approximately half a term of office, enabling the careful for example, at the end of 2011, the Group had 120,000 preparation of his management succession. employees (compared with 55,000 employees 10 years previously) and reported revenues of €10 billion compared with Current governance structure €7 billion in 2001. The Company’s Board of Directors seeks to implement a  period four (2012 to this day): a new dimension for the balanced governance structure tailored to Capgemini and able to Group adapt to the circumstances and challenges specific to the Group, On April 4, 2012, as he had already implied two years previously as well as changes in best practices in this area. on the renewal of his term of office, Mr. Serge Kampf informed directors that “after having enjoyed the benefits of separation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 10 years” he had decided to place this office back in the Since 2012, Mr. Paul Hermelin carries out the duties of Chairman hands of the Board of Directors, while recommending a return at of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the this time to the “standard” method of governance (that of a Company. company in which the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are exercised by the same individual) and the In 2012 and again in 2014 on the renewal of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the terms of office, the Board considered that this method of current Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Paul Hermelin, who had governance regrouping the duties of Chairman of the Board of widely demonstrated, throughout a “probationary period” of a Directors and Chief Executive Officer seemed the most rather exceptional length, his ability to hold this role. appropriate after a long transition phase launched in 2002. The management of an increasingly international and decentralized At its meeting of April 4, 2012, the Board followed these group with an open shareholder base, assumes management and recommendations and solemnly conferred on Mr. Serge Kampf the Board of Directors are on the same page, which is the title of “Honorary Chairman” and function of Vice-Chairman, strengthened by the regrouping of the duties of Chairman and which he retained until his death on March 15, 2016. At the Chief Executive Office. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, Mr. Serge Kampf passed the torch to Mr. Paul Hermelin, who became Chairman and Chief Under the aegis of the Board of Directors, management Executive Officer of Capgemini. “The Group is assured to transition was launched with the appointment of two Chief continue its great story”, emphasized its founder at this time. Operating Officers in October 2017. The continued grouping of The Shareholders' Meeting gave a standing ovation in honor of the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Mr. Serge Kampf’s immense contribution to the development Executive Officer enables both preparations to be made for the and reputation of the Company. Since the appointment of future and coherence and consistency between the Board of Mr. Paul Hermelin as Chief Executive Officer in 2002 and then as Directors and Group Management to be ensured throughout this Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2012, and the return to management transition. growth in 2004, the Group has set a course for new horizons. The Board of Directors also considered that a satisfactory Firstly geographic, with expansion in India, the keystone of the balance of power existed within the Board of Directors. The Group’s industrialization process. Two major milestones were Board noted in particular: reached with the acquisition of Kanbay in 2007 followed by IGATE in 2015, both US financial services specialists with a strong  the presence of a majority of Independent Directors on the presence in India. The Group also expanded in Brazil, taking Board; control of CPM Braxis in 2010, a leading Brazilian player. These  the existence of four Specialized Board Committees with new horizons are also technological. The Group launched new different remits encompassing Audit & Risk, Compensation, offerings integrating major changes such as Cloud computing, Ethics & Governance and Strategy & Investment; and Digital and big data and meeting cyber security challenges.  the restrictions introduced by the Board of Directors' Charter Valuation creation by the Group in this period has been on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer by requiring the significant. Since May 2012, the Group’s enterprise value has prior approval by the Board of Directors of major strategic increased 369% and its stock market capitalization 290%, decisions and decisions likely to have a material impact on the outperforming the CAC40 over two-fold in the same period. Company. 34 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors This balance was strengthened in 2014 with the creation of the The Lead Independent Director has a number of prerogatives role of Lead Independent Director, with specific prerogatives and specific duties. He chairs the Ethics & Governance and duties (see below). Committee and executive sessions of the Board of Directors bringing together the non-executive directors at least twice a Further information on restrictions on the powers of the Chief year. He is consulted by the Chairman on the draft agenda of Executive Officer is presented in Section 2.2.1 (Organization of the every Board meeting and can propose the inclusion of items on Board of Directors). The roles and composition of the Specialized the agenda at his own initiative or at the request of one or more Board Committees are presented in Section 2.2.4. Board members. He also performs the annual assessment of the composition and activities of the Board of Directors and of the 2 Lead Independent Director effective contribution of each director and steers the As part of the constant drive to improve governance within the recruitment process for new directors. Finally, as Chairman of Company, the position of Lead Independent Director was the Ethics & Governance Committee, he plays a specific role in created in May 2014 and entrusted to Mr. Daniel Bernard. drafting and monitoring executive corporate officer succession Mr. Pierre Pringuet was appointed Lead Independent Director in plans and, as such, was therefore involved in 2017 in the May 2017. preparatory work led by the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors on future changes in the Group’s governance. Accordingly, while the duties of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors are exercised by a single individual, the Group’s governance enjoys an active, diligent and independent Board of Directors with a collective approach to its organization and the vigilant authority of a Lead Independent Director with specific powers and duties. Further information on the roles and duties of the Lead Independent Director and the report on his work in 2017 is presented in Section 2.2.1 (Organization of the Board of Directors). Vice-Chairman of them form the Office of the CEO, ensuring the coherent Mr. Daniel Bernard was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Board of management of the Company. Directors following the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. The directors meet regularly with members of the Group In addition to the powers set out in the bylaws and the Board of Management Board, particularly during Committee meetings Directors’ Charter with regard to chairing Board and (Audit & Risk, Ethics & Governance, Compensation and Strategy & Shareholders’ Meetings if the Chairman is absent or unable to Investment), periodic business reviews and the annual residential attend, the Board of Directors decided to entrust him with a Board meeting focusing on the Group's strategy, which includes specific assignment to prepare future changes in the Group's key Group managers in the discussions of the Board of Directors. governance. He was therefore closely involved in discussions A more detailed description of General Management is presented in during the second half of the year on governance changes and Section 2.3. the appointment of two chief operating officers. For further information see the description of the Board's activities Balanced governance, tailored to Capgemini’s in Section 2.2.2 and the work of the Ethics & Governance specific requirements Committee in Section 2.2.4. Therefore, based on these different factors, the Board considers the Company’s current method of governance to be the most Group Executive Board adapted to the specific requirements of Capgemini, while The creation of a Group Executive Board (GEB) to assist Mr. Paul allowing the Board to carry out its duties as well as possible. This Hermelin also contributes on an operating level to ensuring the observation that the Company enjoys balanced and efficient collective management of the Company. The GEB is chaired by governance was reiterated during recent assessments of the Mr. Paul Hermelin and comprises a limited number of Executive Board's activities and, in particular, during the external Committee members, and particularly the heads of the main assessment of the Board performed in 2016. The role and Group businesses, the Chief Financial Officer, the People activities of the Lead Independent Director were identified as Management and Transformation Director and the Director of facilitating the balance desired by the Board, in line with best Competitiveness. governance practices. Further information on Board assessments is The collective management of the Group was strengthened on presented in Section 2.2.3. January 1, 2018, when Messrs. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Capgemini’s constant drive to improve governance for a number Ezzat took office as Chief Operating Officers, tasked with of years has also been recognized externally in recent years. assisting the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in the Capgemini SE was awarded in October 2017 the Golden Peacock exercise of his executive management duties. Mr. Delaporte has Global Award for Excellence in Governance in London by the specific responsibility for steering the offerings, industrial Institute of Directors, India, and received in July 2016 the expertise, innovation and the Indian platform, while Mr. Ezzat Governance Prize at the 2016 Annual General Meeting Grand Prix has specific responsibility for steering the operating accounts ceremony during the Paris EUROPLACE International Financial and the commercial management of clients. Together, the three Forum. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 35 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.2 Composition of the Board of Directors A RENEWED BOARD OF DIRECTORS, TAILORED TO THE CHALLENGES FACING CAPGEMINI Board of Directors(1) Average length of oﬃce BOARD COMPOSITION — Capgemini’s governance beneﬁts 14+2 7 years from an active and diligent Board of Directors, independent in its composition Independent Directors(2) and with a collective approach to its Internationalization operation. Its members have diverse and complementary personalities both from a 62% 25% Foreign nationality Pierre Pringuet, professional and cultural standpoint, true Lead Independent Director, to the Group’s history and values. Diversity (3) Chairman of the Ethics & 43% Employee representation Governance Committee “Capgemini enjoys 1 a balanced and eﬃcient 57% Director representing employee shareholders governance, tailored to the Group’s speciﬁc Paul Hermelin, Average age 2 requirements and Chairman and 62 years Directors representing employees current challenges.” Chief Executive Oﬃcer NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. (1) Fourteen directors are elected by the shareholders; the two directors representing employees are appointed in accordance with the employee representation system. (2) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (3) The two directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with Article L.225-27 of the French Commercial Code. The Capgemini Board of Directors has 16 members, including 14 challenges facing Capgemini. It also ensures that the Board members elected by Shareholders’ Meeting and two members retains a range of experience and nationalities and respects appointed in accordance with the employee representation gender balance, while ensuring the commitment of all directors system. The vast majority of directors are independent, with an to the Group’s fundamental values. To this end, the work of the almost identical number of male and female directors. Directors Ethics & Governance Committee, chaired by the Lead are appointed for a period of four years. Directors are appointed Independent Director is invaluable. by Shareholders’ Meeting, or in the case of employee directors, Since the regrouping of the duties of Chairman of the Board of in accordance with the Company’s bylaws. Directors and Chief Executive Officer in 2012, the composition of Further information on the provisions of the bylaws governing the the Capgemini SE Board of Directors has changed significantly Board of Directors is presented in Section 7.1.17. over time, with the replacement of more than half of its members. Composition of the Board – a range of profiles The change in the composition of the Board of Directors has and experience enabled the replacement of a large number of its members, It is the Board of Directors' policy to regularly assess its increasing the number of independent and female directors and composition and the various areas of expertise and experience reducing the average age. The Board has also included a contributed by each of its members and to identify the direction representative of employee shareholders since 2012 and two to be taken to ensure the best possible balance with regards to employee representatives since September 2016, further international development and the diversity of the Group's contributing to the range of experience and viewpoints. employees, changes in its shareholding base and the various 36 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors BOARD REFRESHMENT — Since the end of 2012, 8 new Directors have joined the Board, representing 50% of the current Board members as of December 31, 2017. 100% Independents(1) 2 Representing employees Proﬁle of the 2 incoming Directors 66% Women(2) 56 Years average age NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. (1) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (2) The two directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with Article L.225-27 of the French Commercial Code. The Board comprises individuals from diverse and the Group's history and values. This enables it to perform its complementary professional and cultural backgrounds, true to duties collectively and in an open manner. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 37 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors The current composition of the Board together with the profile of each director is summarized in the following table. A detailed individual presentation of each director and the experience and expertise they bring to the Board is presented in Section 2.1.3 of this Registration Document. Expiry of term Independent Attendance Board First of office Number of years Director Director rate (Board) committees appointment Shareholders’ Meeting on the Board Paul HERMELIN No 100% Strat. & Inv. 2000 2018 17 Eth. & Gov. Daniel BERNARD No 100% Strat. & Inv. 2005 2021 12 Anne BOUVEROT Yes 90% Strat. & Inv. 2013 2021 4 Yann DELABRIÈRE No 90% 2004 2018 13 Comp. (C) Audit & Risk Laurence DORS Yes 100% Eth. & Gov. 2010 2018 7 Carole FERRAND Yes 100% Audit & Risk 2016 2020 1 Robert FRETEL No 100% Strat. & Inv. 2016 2020 1 Siân HERBERT-JONES Yes 100% Audit & Risk 2016 2020 1 Phil LASKAWY No 70% Audit & Risk 2002 2018 15 Kevin MASTERS No 100% Comp. 2016 2020 1 Audit & Xavier MUSCA Yes 90% Risk (C) 2014 2018 3 Patrick POUYANNE Yes 86% Strat. & Inv. 2017 2020 0 Eth. & Gov. (C). Pierre PRINGUET Yes 90% Comp. 2009 2021 8 Strat. & Inv. (C) Bruno ROGER No 100% Eth. & Gov. 2000 2018 17 Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS No 100% Comp. 2012 2020 5 Caroline Comp. WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Yes 100% Strat. & Inv. 2014 2018 3 Information as at December 31, 2017. (C): Committee Chairman. 38 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Director representing Number of offices employees or employee in listed shareholders Nationality Age Sex companies Experience and expertise brought to the Company 2 No French 65 M 1 Chairman & CEO of the Group Governance of listed companies in France-UK / Executive positions in leading international groups / No French 71 M 2 Retail / Technologies & Digital Technologies & Digital (identity and security) / Experience in No French 51 F 2 international organizations (USA-UK) / Consulting Executive positions in leading international groups / Finance / No French 67 M 3 Retail / Technologies & Digital / Manufacturing No French 61 F 2 Governance of listed companies / Finance / Consulting Finance and audit / External growth strategy and transactions No French 47 F 2 / Technologies & Digital / Retail Employee perspective / Considerable knowledge of Capgemini Group and its businesses / Employee relations / Yes French 60 M 1 Technologies & Digital Finance and audit / External growth strategy and transactions / Executive positions in leading international groups / No British 57 F 3 Services / Consulting Finance and audit / Governance of listed companies in France-USA / Strategy & external growth transactions / Executive positions in leading international groups / No American 76 M 4 Technologies & Digital / Consulting Employee perspective / Considerable knowledge of Capgemini Group and its businesses / Employee relations / Yes British 61 M 1 Technologies & Digital Executive positions in leading international groups / No French 57 M 3 Finance and Economy / Services / Retail Executive positions in leading international groups / Strategy, macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges / No French 54 M 2 Energy Governance of listed companies and executive compensation / Executive positions in leading international groups / No French 67 M 4 External growth strategy and transactions / Consumer goods External growth strategy and transactions / Executive positions in leading international groups / No French 84 M 1 Governance of listed companies / Consulting Finance / Employee perspective / In-depth knowledge Yes French 53 F 3 of the Capgemini Group and its businesses Experience in international organizations (USA) / No American 65 F 1 Technologies & Digital / Retail / Finance sector REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 39 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Changes in the composition of the Board in 2017 Finally, to improve the staggered renewal of the terms of office of directors, particularly in anticipation of the numerous offices The Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 renewed the terms that will expire in 2018, the Board wished to strengthen its of office of Mr. Daniel Bernard, Ms. Anne Bouverot and composition from 2017. Mr. Patrick Pouyanné was therefore Mr. Pierre Pringuet for a period of four years. appointed director by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, Lead Independent Director until the 2017 Shareholders’ 2017. Mr. Pouyanné, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Meeting, Mr. Daniel Bernard was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Total, brings to the Board his management experience in a Board of Directors following the Shareholders’ Meeting, to work leading international energy group, a sector where new closely with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in technologies play an essential role, as well as his knowledge of preparing future changes in the Group’s governance. macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges. This appointment The Board therefore appointed Mr. Pierre Pringuet, an was also an opportunity to strengthen the independence of the Independent Director and director of the Company since 2009, Board, as Mr. Pouyanné meets the criteria of an Independent as Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Director pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Mr. Pouyanné joined Governance Committee. Mr. Pringuet stepped down as Chairman the Strategy & Investment Committee on September 1, 2017. of the Compensation Committee (but remained a member). He Following the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, the was replaced by Ms. Laurence Dors, an Independent Director of number of directors on the Capgemini SE Board of Directors the Company since 2010. increased from 15 to 16. Changes in 2017 Daniel BERNARD Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors Renewal for a period of 4 years Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee Anne BOUVEROT Independent Director Renewal for a period of 4 years Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee Pierre PRINGUET Independent Director, Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee Lead Independent Director Renewal for a period of 4 years Member of the Compensation Committee Patrick POUYANNÉ Independent Director Appointment for a period of 4 years Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee Upcoming changes in the composition of the Board The Board of Directors of Capgemini SE, meeting on March 13, The Board also wished to combine efforts in recent years to 2018 under the chairmanship of Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman renew the Board’s composition, increase the number of women and Chief Executive Officer, and on the report of Mr. Pierre and diversify profiles with a reduced number of directors Pringuet, Chairman of the Ethics and Governance Committee and reinforcing cohesion, collective and efficient decision-making. Lead Independent Director, deliberated on the evolution of the The Board therefore decided to propose the renewal of the composition of the Board of Directors given the expiry of the terms of office of Ms. Laurence Dors, Chairman of the terms of office of seven directors at the coming Shareholders’ Compensation Committee and of Mr. Xavier Musca, Chairman of Meeting of May 23, 2018. the Audit and Risk Committee, both Independent Directors, for a In line with the announcements made in October 2017, the period of four years. Board of Directors decided to propose the renewal of the term The Board of Directors further proposed the appointment of Mr. of office of Mr. Paul Hermelin as director for a period of four Frédéric Oudéa as a member of the Board of Directors for a years and intends to confirm him in his duties of Chairman of the period of four years. Chief Executive Officer of Société Générale, Board and Chief Executive Officer if the Shareholders’ Meeting Mr. Oudéa will bring to the Board his experience in managing a renews his term of office as director. leading banking group with an ambitious international This renewal of office is part of the preparation of the development plan and highly innovative in digital. The Board has management succession engaged with the support of the Board indicated that Mr. Oudéa would be considered independent of Directors since the end of 2016. Mr. Hermelin had indicated in pursuant to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the May 2017 his wish to continue exercising the duties of Chairman Company refers. and Chief Executive Officer for a period representing The Board of Directors warmly thanked Ms. Caroline approximately half a term of office; he has informed the Board Watteeuw-Carlisle, Mr. Yann Delabrière, Mr. Phil Laskawy and Mr. of Directors of his intention to step down as Chief Executive Bruno Roger whose contributions to the work of the Board and Officer while remaining Chairman of the Board. It is recalled that, its Committees during their respective terms of office as part of this transition, two Chief Operating Officers were accompanied the different phases of the Group’s development. appointed on October 11, 2017 upon his proposal. Assuming the adoption of these resolutions by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018, the composition of the Board of Directors will decrease from 16 to 13 directors, with 80% of Independent Directors (excluding directors representing employees and employee shareholders) and 45% of female directors (the two directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating this percentage) and a reduced average age of 59 years old. 40 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Independence of the Board of Directors  does not have close family ties with a corporate officer; Independence criteria  has not been the statutory auditor of the Company in the last In accordance with the definition of independence adopted by 5 years; the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, a director is independent when he/she has no relationship with the Company,  has not been a director of the Company for more than twelve the Group or its Management, that is likely to impair his/her years (the status of Independent Director is lost on the date of the twelve-year anniversary). judgment. 2 The following criteria are examined, initially by the Ethics & Ratio and Calculation rules Governance Committee and then by the Board, to determine whether a director is independent (Article 8.5 of the In companies with widely-held share capital, such as Capgemini AFEP-MEDEF Code): SE, the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommends that at least one-half of Board members should be independent.  is not and has not been during the course of the previous five years: Directors representing employee shareholders and directors representing employees are not included when calculating the ❚ an employee or executive corporate officer of the Company, Board’s independence, in accordance with the provisions of the ❚ an employee or executive corporate officer or director of a AFEP-MEDEF Code. Accordingly, the percentage of Independent company that the Company consolidates, Directors on the Capgemini SE Board of Directors at the date of ❚ an employee or executive corporate officer or director of this Registration Document, is calculated based on 13 members and not the full 16 members of the Board. the Company’s parent company or a company that this parent company consolidates; Review of director independence by the Board  is not an executive corporate officer of a company in which of Directors the Company holds directly or indirectly a directorship or in which an employee designated as such or an executive Based on the report of the Ethics & Governance Committee, the corporate officer of the Company (currently or within the last Board of Directors examined the personal situation of each of 5 years) holds a directorship; the members of the Board of Directors with regard to the AFEP-MEDEF Code independence criteria set-out above during  is not a customer, supplier, corporate bank or financing bank: its meeting of February 14, 2018. ❚ material for the Company or its Group, ❚ or for which the Company or its Group represents a material share of activity; The following table summarizes the classification adopted for each director following this review, for the 13 directors included in the calculation of the Board’s independence ratio in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Is not and has not Has not been been within the the statutory last 5 years, auditor of the Has not been an employee No No material Company a director for or executive crossbusiness No family in the last more than corporate officer directorships relationships ties 5 years 12 years Classification Not Paul Hermelin √ √ √ independent Not Daniel Bernard √ √ √ √ √ independent Anne Bouverot √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Not Yann Delabrière* √ √ √ √ independent Laurence Dors √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Carole Ferrand √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Siân Herbert-Jones √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Not Phil Laskawy* √ √ √ √ √ independent Xavier Musca √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Patrick Pouyanné √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Pierre Prinquet √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent Not Bruno Roger* √ √ √ √ independent Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle* √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent 8 Independent Directors TOTAL 62% √ independence criteria met * Directors having announced their intention not to seek renewal of their term of office expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 41 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Based on the independence criteria set out above, the Board  In 2017, Capgemini SE and its subsidiaries have, in the normal considered that 8 of its 13 members (excluding directors course of business, delivered services to and/or received representing employees and employee shareholders), i.e. 62%, services from companies in which certain of its Independent could be considered independent: Directors are executives or directors. Anne Bouverot, Laurence Dors, Carole Ferrand, Siân To the extent that the negotiation terms and conditions for Herbert-Jones, Xavier Musca, Patrick Pouyanné, Pierre Pringuet the delivery of these services were normal and customary and and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle. that the corresponding revenues recognized by Capgemini and the relevant companies cannot be considered material or Specific review by the Board of Directors of the business to indicate a position of economic dependence, in the Board relationship criteria between Capgemini Group and its of Directors’ opinion these business relationships are not directors material for Capgemini Group or the relevant companies and During its annual review of the independence of directors, the are not likely to compromise the independence of the Board of Directors examined, in particular, any business directors concerned; relationships between Capgemini Group and each director or  the Board noted with regard to the following directors, company with which they are associated, in order to assess the classified as not independent pursuant to several criteria materiality of these relationships. including that of business relationships: This assessment was conducted with regard to both quantitative ❚ Mr. Bruno Roger, due to his duties in Lazard bank up to and qualitative criteria. October 1, 2017, must be considered a major investment The quantitative assessment was based on a statement of banker of Capgemini Group due to the continuity of the business flows between Capgemini Group and entities that are business relationship between the Group and Lazard, the suppliers and/or clients of Capgemini and that have directors in investment bank that has accompanied Capgemini Group in common with Capgemini SE. its external growth transactions for many years, even if the analysis does not identify material business flows, This analysis is supplemented by a review of more qualitative and contextual items reflecting the situations examined, such as ❚ Mr. Yann Delabrière must also be considered up to negotiation terms and conditions for the delivery of services, the October 2017 as a service provider of a Group subsidiary organization of the relationship between stakeholders and the (through MM Consulting), for which the Group represents a relevant director’s position in the contracting company and the material percentage of business (for further information see existence of a long-term relationship or a position of potential the description below in Absence of conflict of interest). economic dependence. Independence of the Board after the 2018 This review is one of the specific activities conducted by the Lead Shareholders’ Meeting Independent Director as part of the procedure to assess the absence of conflict of interest (see below). Assuming the renewal of the proposed terms of office by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 and the appointment of After assessing the above criteria and based on the work of the Mr. Frédéric Oudéa, considered independent by the Board, the Ethics & Governance Committee, the Board of Directors percentage of Independent Directors on the Board from May 23, concluded as follows: 2018 will be 80% (i.e. 8 members out of 10). Overview of the independent status of the Board of Directors Percentage of Independent Directors* Classification of Board members** Anne Bouverot, Laurence Dors, Carole Ferrand, Siân Herbert-Jones, Xavier Musca, At the date of the 2017 62% Patrick Pouyanné, Pierre Pringuet and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle Registration Document Paul Hermelin, Daniel Bernard, Yann Delabrière, Phil Laskawy, Bruno Roger At the end of the Anne Bouverot, Laurence Dors, Carole Ferrand, Siân Herbert-Jones, Xavier Musca, Shareholders’ Meeting 80% Frédéric Oudéa, Patrick Pouyanné, Pierre Pringuet of May 23, 2018 Paul Hermelin, Daniel Bernard (*) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not included in this percentage in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (**) In bold: members considered independent by the Board. Absence of conflict of interest Article 7.1 of the Capgemini SE Board of Directors’ Charter or potential conflict of interest and to refrain from voting on the requires directors to comply with recommendation no. 19 of the related decision. Any director who has a permanent conflict of AFEP-MEDEF Code concerning the prevention of conflicts of interest is required to resign from the Board. interest: In light of the recommendations of the French Financial Markets “Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors Authority (AMF) and the Corporate Governance High Committee, represent all the shareholders and are required to act in all the Board of Directors implemented an appraisal procedure to circumstances in the Company's interest. They are required to assess the absence of conflict of interest for directors. notify the Board of Directors of any one-off conflict of interest 42 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors To this end and to assess any conflicts of interest potentially the Paris Appeal Court confirmed the amount of financial resulting from business relationships, a statement of business penalties at €100,000 and Mr. Yann Delabrière and Faurecia flows between Capgemini Group and entities that are suppliers SA, appealed to the Court of Cassation, the French Supreme and/or clients of Capgemini and that have directors in common Court; with Capgemini SE is prepared annually and communicated to  has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of Mr. Pierre Pringuet, Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an the Ethics & Governance Committee. A qualitative assessment of issuer or from participating in the management or conduct of situations encountered is also conducted based on several criteria, as detailed in the section “Independence of the Board of the affairs of any issuer at any time during the last five years. 2 Directors” above. In addition, each year directors are required to As far as the Company is aware, there are no: issue a statement to the Company regarding the existence or  conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of absence, to their knowledge, of any conflicts of interest. Directors between their duties towards Capgemini and their Based on this information, the Lead Independent Director private interests and/or any other duties; confirmed the absence of any conflicts of interest.  arrangements or agreements with the principal shareholders, These conflict of interest prevention measures supplement one customers or suppliers pursuant to which one of the members of the general duties of the Ethics & Governance Committee of the Board of Directors was selected; which is to draw the attention of the Chairman of the Board of  restrictions accepted by the members of the Board of Directors to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has Directors on the sale of their investment in the share capital identified between a director and the Company or its Group or of Capgemini (other than the obligation under the bylaws that between directors. They also provide input for the Board of each director must hold at least 1,000 shares throughout their Directors’ work on the independence classification of directors. term of office and the obligation for Mr. Paul Hermelin to hold his performance shares detailed in Section 2.4.1); In this respect, it was identified in October 2016 that Mr. Yann Delabrière, a director of Capgemini SE, has been appointed a  service contracts between the members of the Board of Senior Advisor at Capgemini Consulting, a strategy and Directors and Capgemini or any of its subsidiaries that provide transformation consulting entity of the Capgemini Group. This for the granting of benefits upon termination thereof. appointment followed the end of a one-year services agreement It being noted that MM Consulting, whose Chairman and Chief between MM Consulting and Capgemini Consulting. Mr. Yann Executive Officer is Mr. Yann Delabrière, signed a one year Delabrière is the Chairman and CEO of MM Consulting. This agreement with Capgemini Consulting in October 2016 to agreement expired in October 2017 and was not renewed. support this entity’s Digital Manufacturing go to market Further information on compensation received under this strategy, leveraging his knowledge of the automotive industry. agreement is presented in Section 2.4.3 (Attendance fees and other This agreement expired in October 2017 and was not renewed. compensation received by corporate officers). (For further information see pages 99 and 238). The Board of Directors considered Mr. Yann Delabrière’s As far as the Company is aware, there are no family ties between assignment to be compatible with his duties as director, noting members of the Board of Directors. that it concerned the everyday activities of Capgemini Consulting and was governed by a service agreement entered into on an Information on regulated agreements arm’s length basis. with related parties Declarations concerning corporate officers As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members of Regulated agreements and commitments authorized the Board of Directors: in 2017  has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last five In anticipation of Messrs. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat years; taking office as Chief Operating Officers on January 1, 2018 and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the  has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or Board of Directors, during its meeting of December 6, 2017, liquidation at any time during the last five years; authorized, in principle, termination benefits in the event of  has been subject to any form of official public sanction and/or cessation of their duties as Chief Operating Officer and a criminal liability pronounced by a statutory or regulatory non-compete clause. These commitments are regulated authority (including designated professional bodies), it being commitments pursuant to Article L. 225-42-1 of the French noted that: Commercial Code. In a decision dated December 18, 2014, the Sanctions The appointment of the two Chief Operating Officers forms part Commission of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) of measures to prepare Capgemini’s management transition. The considered that Faurecia SA and Mr. Yann Delabrière, in his Board of Directors considered it was in the Company’s interest capacity of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia during this transition period to protect both the newly appointed SA, had failed to comply with certain obligations set out in Chief Operating Officers, by introducing a termination benefit Articles 223-1, 223-2 and 223-10-1 of the AMF General mechanism, and the Group, through a non-compete clause. Regulations with respect to disclosures concerning the It is recalled that the employment contracts of the Chief Company's objectives for 2012. Concerning Mr. Yann Operating Officers do not contain a termination benefits clause, Delabrière, based on Articles L.621-15 (paragraphs II (c) and III other than the provisions provided for in the collective (c) of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire bargaining agreement. They will be suspended during their et financier), financial penalties of €100,000, were handed terms of office as corporate officer in accordance with the down by the AMF against him; Mr. Yann Delabrière filed an recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code appeal together with Faurecia against this decision with the applicable to Chief Operating Officers. Paris Court of Appeal on February 26, 2015. On June 30, 2016, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 43 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors The Board ensured strict performance conditions were attached the theoretical annual compensation (fixed and variable) to the termination benefits in the event of cessation of the applicable at the date of cessation of duties the aggregate corporate office, based on the weighted performance of the amount of (i) termination benefits effectively paid, (ii) severance financial indicators applicable to the so-called V1 variable payments for termination of the employment contract and (iii) any component of the Chief Operating Officer’s compensation (tied compensation paid on application of a non-compete commitment. to Group performance indicators and consolidated results), It is recalled that the rules of the performance share plans observed annually during the last three full fiscal years preceding benefiting Messrs. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat do not the cessation of duties, with a heavier weighting applied to the provide for the retention of rights to performance shares not yet final year. delivered in the event of early departure, except on retirement, The Board of Directors has provided the Company may, where death or invalidity. necessary, invoke a non-compete clause against the Chief Pursuant to Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, Operating Officers. The Board nonetheless retains the ability to the commitments given by the Board of Directors to Messrs. free the Chief Operating Officers from their non-compete Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat will be presented for obligation when the time comes and, in turn, waive payment of approval to the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 subject the non-compete compensation. This compensation will be equal to (i) the adoption of the Chief Operating Officer compensation to 50% of the theoretical gross compensation (fixed and variable) policy by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company of May 23, assuming all objectives are attained, applicable at the date of 2018 and (ii) the renewal of Messrs. Thierry Delaporte’s and cessation of the duties of Chief Operating Officer, representing Aiman Ezzat’s duties as Chief Operating Officer by the Board of an appropriate consideration for the non-compete commitment. Directors meeting to be held following the Combined Finally, the Board of Directors, in accordance with the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018. recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, has capped at twice Compensation pursuant to Termination beneﬁts on Compensation resulting 2 year cap the collective bargaining cessation of the corporate from application of a on theoretical annual agreement in respect of oﬃce based on non-compete clause on compensation the employment contract performance over the last cessation of the corporate (ﬁxed + variable) three years oﬃce payable, except in the event applicable at the date of of gross or willful misconduct, based on + (payable, unless departure at the individual’s initiative, + Equal to 50% of theoretical gross compensation (ﬁxed + ≤ cessation of duties seniority as an employee due to a change in function variable) applicable on the prior to appointment as an within the Group, date of cessation of the executive corporate oﬃcer) retirement or gross or duties of Chief Operating willful misconduct) Oﬃcer (i.e. ≤ 1 year) For further information on regulated commitments in favor of Chief Hermelin has been a beneficiary of this plan since 2007 (his rights Operating Officers, see Section 2.4.1.2 and the Statutory Auditors’ were frozen with effect from October 31, 2015 without any special report, page 273. consideration). More detailed information can be found in the Statutory Auditors’ Regulated agreements and commitments authorized in special report on page 273 (Agreements and commitments prior years approved in previous years but not implemented during the year). The Statutory Auditors’ special report for the year ended December 31, 2017 highlights the continuation in 2017 of the Loans and guarantees granted to directors Company’s supplementary pension plan set-up in favor of certain senior executives regarded as having made a significant and and managers of the Company lasting contribution to the development of the Group. Mr. Paul None. 44 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.3 Information on the members of the Board of Directors (at December 31, 2017) Since May 10, 2017, the Capgemini Board of Directors has 16 members. The wide range of their experience and expertise contributes to the quality of discussions and the smooth operation of the Board, ensuring the best possible balance taking account of the Group‘s situation and the different challenges facing Capgemini. A detailed individual presentation of each director is presented below. 2 PAUL HERMELIN Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Paul Hermelin is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École Nationale d’Administration. He spent the first fifteen years of his professional life in the French government, primarily in the Ministry of Finance. He held a number of positions in the Budget Office and on various ministry staffs, including that of Finance Minister Jacques Delors. He was chief of staff to the Minister of Industry and Foreign Trade, from 1991 to 1993. Date of birth: Mr. Paul Hermelin joined the Capgemini Group in May 1993, where he was first in charge of coordinating central April 30, 1952 functions. In May 1996, he was appointed member of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer of Nationality: Capgemini France. In May 2000, following the merger of Capgemini and Ernst & Young Consulting, he became French Chief Operating Officer of the Group and director. On January 1, 2002, he became Chief Executive Officer of the Business address: Capgemini Group, followed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 24, 2012. He has been a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 24, 2002. Capgemini SE 11, rue de Tilsitt Principal office: 75017 Paris Mr. Paul Hermelin has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE since May 2012. First appointment: OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 2000 Expiry Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Chairman of: of term of office:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2012)  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. (since March 2016) 2018 Director of:  CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S. (since (Ordinary November 2005) Shareholders’  AXA* (until April 2017) Meeting held to Chairman of:  SOGETI FRANCE 2005 S.A.S. (since November 2005) approve the 2017  CAPGEMINI 2015 S.A.S. (since December 2010) financial statements)  THE BRIDGE SAS Number of shares Other offices in Capgemini Group: Manager of: held at Dec. 31, 2017: Chairman of the Board of Directors of:  SCI PARIS ETOILE (since March 2016) 282,048 Chief Executive Officer of:  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (USA) (since April 2002)  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, Inc. (USA) (since  CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (USA) (since November 2005) December 2000) Director of: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of:  CGS HOLDINGS LTD (UK) (since June 1999)  CAPGEMINI N.V. (Netherlands) (until  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INDIA Ltd November 2012) (since August 2017) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Capgemini Group: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: Chairman of:  CAPGEMINI GOUVIEUX S.A.S. (until April 2014)  CAPGEMINI 2010 S.A.S. (until September 2015) Director of:  CAMELIA PARTICIPATIONS SAS (until January 2013)  CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL SERVICES Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: INTERNATIONAL, INC. (USA) (until March 2016)  CAPGEMINI HOLDING INC. (USA) (until  IGATE CORPORATION (USA) (until May 2016) December 2013)  SOGETI SA / NV (Belgium) (until December 2013) Chairman of the Board of Directors of:  CPM BRAXIS SA (Brazil) (until May 2013)  CAPGEMINI US LLC (USA) (until July 2016)  CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA Pty Ltd (until May 2014) Chief Executive Officer of:  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. (until March 2016) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 45 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors DANIEL BERNARD Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors Director Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Daniel Bernard is a graduate of HEC business school. He started his career in the retail sector, where he was Chief Executive Officer of Socam Miniprix (from 1971 to 1975) and then Director of the La Ruche Picarde Group Mammouth and Delta hypermarkets. He was Chief Executive Officer of Groupe Métro France (from 1981 to Date of birth: 1989), followed by member of the Management Board of Métro International AG (from 1989 to1992). He February 18, 1946 became Chairman of the Executive Board of Carrefour in 1992 and was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Nationality: Officer in 1998. Mr. Daniel Bernard was also an Independent Director of Alcatel Lucent (from 1997 to 2014) and French of Saint-Gobain (from 2000 to 2006). He was a member of the Saint-Gobain Appointments Committee and Business address: chaired the Alcatel-Lucent Corporate Governance and Appointments Committee. Provestis 14, rue de Marignan In 2006, Mr. Daniel Bernard joined the Board of Directors of Kingfisher Plc as Vice-Chairman and was Chairman of the Board of Directors from 2009 to June 2017. He also chaired the Appointments Committee. In July 2017, 75008 Paris Mr. Daniel Bernard was appointed to the Peugeot SA Supervisory Board as the permanent representative of First appointment: Lion Participations. Mr. Daniel Bernard is also President of Provestis, his own investment company, and Senior 2005 Advisor of Towerbrook Capital Partners, LP. Expiry of term of office: Mr. Daniel Bernard holds the ranks of Officer of the National Order of Merit and Knight of the Legion of Honor. 2021 Mr. Daniel Bernard has been a director of Capgemini SE since May 12, 2005 and is Vice-Chairman of the Board of (Ordinary Directors since May 10, 2017. He was Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Shareholders’ Committee from May 2014 to May 2017. He has been a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since Meeting held to May 7, 2014 and of the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 26, 2006. approve the 2020 financial statements) He brings to the Board of Directors considerable experience in the management of leading international Number of shares companies where he has held top positions, together with reputed expertise in corporate governance, gained held at Dec. 31, 2017: through major corporate governance responsibilities in leading listed companies in France and the United 1,000 Kingdom. Mr. Daniel Bernard also contributes to the Board’s strategic discussions, thanks notably to his considerable experience in the retail sector and its Digital transformation. Principal office: Mr. Daniel Bernard has been President of Provestis since 2006. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Senior Advisor of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2005)  TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS, LP (UK) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: (since October 2010)  KINGFISHER PLC* (U.K) (until June 13, 2017) Member of the Board of Directors of: Member of the Supervisory Board of:  LA FONDATION HEC (since 2008)  PEUGEOT SA.* (permanent representative of Lion  EESC HEC (since 2016) Participations) (since July 25, 2017) Honorary Chairman of: Chairman of:  LA FONDATION HEC (since 2014)  PROVESTIS SAS (since June 2006) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Chairman of:  MAF RETAIL GROUP (DUBAI) (until December 2015)  LA FONDATION HEC (until March 2014) Director of:  ALCATEL LUCENT* (until May 2014) (*) Listed company. 46 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors ANNE BOUVEROT Independent Director Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of École Normale Supérieure and of Télécom Paris, Ms. Anne Bouverot also holds a PhD in computer science (1991). She started her career as IT project manager with Telmex in Mexico, before joining Global One in the USA in 1996. In 2002, she was appointed Vice-President at Equant's IT services unit. In 2004, she became Chief of Staff for the 2 Date of birth: Chief Executive Officer of Orange in the United Kingdom, followed by Executive Vice-President, Mobile Services, March 21, 1966 for France Télécom Orange. In November 2006, Ms. Anne Bouverot became Executive Vice-President, Nationality: International Business Development, at France Telecom. From 2011 to July 2015, she was Chief Executive Officer French of GSMA, the international association of mobile network operators. She was Chairman and Chief Executive Business address: Officer of Safran Identity & Security (formerly Morpho), a world leader in security and identity solutions (biometrics and digital identity) until June 2017. She is Senior Advisor of Advent International since this date. Advent International 8-10 rue Lamennais Ms. Anne Bouverot joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on October 8, 2013 and was appointed a 75008 Paris member of the Strategy & Investment Committee on the same date. First appointment: Ms. Anne Bouverot has spent the majority of her professional career in the Telecoms sector, a key information 2013 technology sector, where she has held leading positions in international organizations. The duties she has Expiry performed allow her to make a key contribution to Capgemini Group strategic discussions given the impact of of term of office: mobile connections on technology uses. She also brings specific Digital expertise to the Board of Directors in the 2021 areas of security and identity in Digital and connected environments. Finally, as a director of Edenred and (Ordinary previously of Groupama, Ms. Anne Bouverot already has considerable experience as an Independent Director of Shareholders’ Euronext listed companies. Meeting held to approve the 2020 Principal office: financial statements) Ms. Anne Bouverot has been Senior Advisor of Advent International since June 2017. Number of shares OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 held at Dec. 31, 2017: 1,000 Director of: Chairman of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since October 2013)  MORPHO USA, INC (USA) (until June 2017)  EDENRED* (since June 2010) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of:  MORPHO DETECTION INTERNATIONAL, LLC (USA)  SAFRAN IDENTITY AND SECURITY SAS (formerly (until June 2017) MORPHO SAS) (until June 2017) Member of the Supervisory Board of: Senior Advisor:  MORPHO CARDS GMBH (GERMANY) (until  ADVENT IINTERNATIONAL (since June 2017) June 2017) Other offices held in Safran Identity and Security Director of: Group:  MORPHO DETECTION, LLC (USA) (until June 2017) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of:  MORPHO TRAK, LLC (USA) (until June 2017) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED)) Director of: Chief Executive Officer of:  GROUPAMA SA* (until 2013)  GSMA SV (SWITZERLAND) (until July 2015) Offices held in GSMA: Director of: (International association of mobile network  GSMA LTD (USA) (until July 2015) operators) Member of the Board of Directors as Permanent Representative of France Telecom Orange SA :  GSMA (until July 2015) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 47 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors YANN DELABRIÈRE Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee until May 10, 2017 BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Yann Delabrière is a graduate of Ecole Normale Supérieure and Ecole Nationale d’Administration and has a postgraduate degree in mathematics. He began his career at the Committee of Public Accounts (Cour des Comptes) before working as Chief Financial Officer for the French export credit agency, COFACE (1982 to 1987) and the Printemps Group (1987 to 1990), Date of birth: before becoming Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee of PSA Peugeot Citroën December 19, 1950 Group (1998 to 2007). He was also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Banque PSA Finance. Nationality: Mr. Yann Delabrière was a director of Faurecia from November 1996 to May 2017 and a member of its Strategy French Committee. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia from February 2007 to June 2016 and was Business address: Chairman of the Board of Directors from July 1, 2016 to May 30, 2017. He has been Honorary Chairman of Zodiac Aerospace 61, Faurecia since May 30, 2017. rue Pierre Curie CS He was also a director of Société Générale from 2012 to 2016. 20001 78373 Plaisir Cedex He has been a director of Alstom since March 17, 2017, and Chairman of the Executive Board of Zodiac First appointment: Aerospace since June 16, 2017. He has also been Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Idemia (formerly 2004 OT-Morpho) since January 29, 2018 and was previously Vice-Chairman from May 31, 2017. Expiry Mr. Yann Delabrière has been a director of Capgemini SE since February 25, 2004. He was a member of the Audit of term of office: & Risk Committee until May 10, 2017, having chaired the Audit Committee for 10 years (2006-2016). 2018 Mr. Yann Delabrière provides the Board of Directors with both financial expertise and his experience as an (Ordinary executive and director of highly international French companies. In addition to these skills, he brings Shareholders’ considerable experience in the manufacturing sector, and particularly the automobile sector and its Digital Meeting held to approve the 2017 transformation. financial statements) Principal office: Number of shares Mr. Yann Delabrière has been Chairman of the Zodiac Aerospace Executive Board since June 16, 2017. held at Dec. 31, 2017: 2,550 OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since February 2004)  MM Consulting SAS (since October 2016)  ALSTOM* (since March 2017) Chairman of the Executive Board of: Chairman of the Board of Directors of:  ZODIAC AEROSPACE* (since June 2017)  FAURECIA* (until May 2017) Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of : Honorary Chairman of:  IDEMIA (from May 2017 to January 29, 2018)  FAURECIA* (since May 2017) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chief Executive Officer of: Director of:  FAURECIA* (until June 2016)  SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE* (until May 2016) (*) Listed company. 48 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors LAURENCE DORS Independent Director Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit & Risk Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Laurence Dors is a graduate of Ecole Normale Supérieure and Ecole Nationale d’Administration. A former senior civil servant in the French Finance Ministry and former member of the Prime Minister’s staff (1995-1997) 2 and the Ministry of the Economy’s staff (1994-1995), Ms. Laurence Dors has spent much of her professional Date of birth: career in international and executive management positions in major international groups (Lagardère, EADS, March 16, 1956 Dassault Systems, Renault). She is the cofounder and a Senior Partner of the consulting firm Theano Advisors Nationality: (formerly Anthenor Partners). A specialist in governance issues and an Independent Director, she sits on the French Board of Directors of IFA (French Institute of Directors). Business address: Theano Advisors Ms. Laurence Dors has been a member of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole SA since May 19, 2009. She 57, rue Pierre Charron chairs the Compensation Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Appointments and Governance Committee. She also sits on the Board of Directors of Egis, a non-listed engineering company 75008 Paris specializing in consulting and the development of projects offering added value through innovation. She chairs First appointment: the Compensation Committee and is a member of the Engagements Committee. 2010 Expiry Ms. Laurence Dors holds the ranks of Knight of the Legion of Honor and Officer of the National Order of Merit. of term of office: Ms. Laurence Dors has been a member of the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE since May 27, 2010. She has 2018 been Chairman of the Compensation Committee since May 10, 2017 and a member of the Audit & Risk (Ordinary Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) and the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 7, 2014. Shareholders’ Meeting held to Ms. Laurence Dors brings to the Board of Directors her considerable governance experience, her financial and approve the 2017 business consulting expertise and her experience in the management of leading international groups in the financial statements) technology sector. Number of shares Principal office: held at Dec. 31, 2017: Ms. Laurence Dors has been a Senior Partner of Theano Advisors (formerly Anthenor Partners) since July 2012. 1,000 OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Member of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2010)  IHEAL (Institute of Latin American Studies)  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA* (since May 2009) Strategic Policy Committee (since June 2012)  EGIS SA (since November 2011)  CEFA (Franco-German Economic Club) Policy Committee (since October 2005)  IFA (French Institute of Directors) (since May 2012) Senior Partner of:  THEANO ADVISORS (since July 2012) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Director of:  INHESJ (French National Institute for Advanced Studies in Security and Justice) (until April 2016) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 49 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors CAROLE FERRAND Independent Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Carole Ferrand is a graduate of HEC business school (class of 1992). She started her career at PricewaterhouseCoopers, where she was an auditor and later a financial advisor in the Transaction Services Division. In 2000, she joined Sony France, the French subsidiary of the consumer and professional electronics branch of the Sony Corporation Group, as Financial Director before becoming General Secretary in 2002. In 2011, she held the position of Chief Financial Officer of the Europacorp Group. Since January 2013, she has been Date of birth: Financing Director at Artémis Group and is in charge of strategic and financial support for certain investments. April 2, 1970 Nationality: Ms. Carole Ferrand was appointed to the Board of Directors of FNAC Group in 2013, where she is also a member French of the Audit Committee. Business address: Ms. Carole Ferrand joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 18, 2016. She has been a member of Artémis the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date. She brings to the Board her 12, rue François 1er expertise in audit, finance and financial issues. Ms. Carole Ferrand also contributes her expertise in investment 75008 Paris strategy and external growth and her experience and knowledge of the challenges associated with rapid change First appointment: in a competitive environment as well as disruption and particularly digital disruption in a wide range of 2016 environments. Expiry Principal office: of term of office: Ms. Carole Ferrand has been Financing Director at Artémis Group since January 2013. 2020 OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Ordinary Shareholders’ Director of: Director of: Meeting held to approve the 2019  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2016)  SEBDO, LE POINT (since June 2013) financial statements) Financing Director of:  ARTEMIS 21 (since November 2013) Number of shares  ARTEMIS (since January 2013)  ÉDITIONS TALLANDIER (since December 2014) held at Dec. 31, 2017: 1,000 Honorary Chairman and Director of:  PALAZZO GRASSI (since April 2016)  TERRA NOVA (association created under the 1901  COLLECTION PINAULT-PARIS (since May 2016) Act) (since December 2012) Offices held in Artémis Group: Director of:  GROUPE FNAC* (since April 2013) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) N/A (*) Listed company. 50 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors ROBERT FRETEL Director representing employees Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Robert Fretel has an engineering degree from Institut du Génie Chimique (Toulouse). He began his career in 1981 as a mathematics teacher in France and then Tunisia under a cooperation program. In 1984 he joined the water treatment company, NALCO, as a technical sales engineer, where he developed software for the sales team. In 1986, he moved to Compagnie Générale d’Informatique, where during 7 years he 2 Date of birth: performed assignments for clients such as Citroen and then EDF, focusing on the design and development of October 17, 1957 the development and operating technical architecture of an invoicing application (100 operating sites, Bull and Nationality: IBM). He also performed training assignments both internally and for clients such as Crédit Agricole and Caisse French d’Épargne. Business address: Mr. Robert Fretel joined Capgemini Toulouse in November 1993 and now has 24 years’ experience with the Group. Capgemini Technology In addition to his operational duties, Robert Fretel has been an employee representative for 20 years within Services Capgemini and has developed over this period employee dialogue and mediation with many employees and 109, avenue Management. He has also been a member of the International Works Council (IWC) for 10 years. Eisenhower 31036 Toulouse Mr. Robert Fretel has therefore gained considerable knowledge of employee representative bodies and their First appointment: activities, as well as of employee consultation processes. 2016 He joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on September 1, 2016 as a director representing employees. Expiry He is also a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee. of term of office: Mr. Robert Fretel brings to the Board the perspective of an employee with considerable knowledge and 2020 experience of technological environments and their Digital transformation. As a result of his duties, Mr. Robert (Ordinary Fretel also has an in-depth understanding of the Capgemini Group and its businesses. Shareholders’ Meeting held to Principal office: approve the 2019 Mr. Robert Fretel is a software architect/MVS expert and software engineer with Capgemini Technology financial statements) Services. Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2017: OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 10 Director of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since September 2016) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) N/A (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 51 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors SIÂN HERBERT-JONES Independent Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A British Chartered Accountant, Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones initially worked for 15 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers in its London and then Paris offices, where she was in charge of mergers and acquisitions (from 1983 to 1993). She then joined the Sodexo Group, where she spent 21 years, including 15 years as Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee (until February 28, 2016). She is currently a director of l’Air Liquide SA (since 2011) where she chairs the Audit and Accounts Committee. She has Date of birth: also been a director of Bureau Veritas since May 17, 2016 and is a member of the Appointments and September 13, 1960 Compensation Committee. Nationality: British Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 18, 2016. She has been a member Business address: of the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date. Capgemini SE Of British nationality, she brings strong financial and audit expertise to the Board, as well as her experience 11, rue de Tilsitt with international transactions, particularly in the service sector (BtoB). She also contributes to the Board her 75017 Paris multi-cultural management experience and expertise and her experience as an Independent Director on the First appointment: Boards of leading international companies. 2016 Principal office: Expiry Independent Director of term of office: 2020 OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Ordinary Director of: Shareholders’ Meeting held to  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2016) approve the 2019  L’AIR LIQUIDE SA* (since May 2011) financial statements)  BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2016) Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2017:  COMPAGNIE FINANCIÉRE AURORE INTERNATIONALE, a Sodexo group subsidiary (since February 2016) 1,000 OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chief Financial Officer and member of the  UNIVERSAL SODEXHO EURASIA Ltd Executive Committee of: (until February 2016)  SODEXO* (until February 2016)  SODEXO, INC (until February 2016) Offices held in Sodexo Group:  SODEXO MANAGEMENT, INC. (until February 2016) Chairman of:  SODEXO REMOTE SITES USA, INC.  Etin SAS (until February 2016) (until February 2016)  SOFINSOD SAS (until February 2016)  SODEXO SERVICES ENTERPRISES LLC (until February 2016)  SODEXO ETINBIS SAS (until February 2016)  UNIVERSAL SODEXHO SERVICES DE VENEZUELA SA Permanent Representative of Sofinsod SAS (until February 2016) on the Supervisory Board of:  UNIVERSAL SODEXHO EMPRESA DE SERVICIOS  ONE SCA (until February 2016) Y CAMPAMENTOS SA (until February 2016) Director of:  SODEXO GLOBAL SERVICES UK Ltd  SODEXHO AWARDS CO (until February 2016) (until February 2016)  SODEXO JAPAN KABUSHIKI KAISHA Ltd (until Member of the Management Board of: February 2016)  SODEXO EN FRANCE SAS (until February 2016)  SODEXHO MEXICO SA DE CV (until February 2016)  SODEXO ENTREPRISES SAS (until February 2016)  SODEXHO MEXICO SERVICIOS DE PERSONAL SA  SODEXO PASS INTERNATIONAL SAS DE CV (until February 2016) (until February 2016)  SODEXO REMOTE SITES THE NETHERLANDS B.V  ONE SAS (until February 2016) (until February 2016)  ONE SCA (until February 2016)  SODEXO REMOTE SITES EUROPE Ltd (until February 2016) (*) Listed company. 52 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors PHIL LASKAWY Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Phil Laskawy graduated from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania with a Bachelor’s degree in Economics. Mr. Laskawy served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ernst & Young (now known as EY LLP) from 1994 until his retirement in 2001, after 40 years of service with the professional services firm. Under his leadership, 2 Date of birth: the firm expanded into a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. March 31, 1941 In 2006 and 2007, he served as Chairman of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation, Nationality: which oversees the setting of accounting standards in over 100 countries. He was a member of the American Independence Standards Board, created by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the American Institute Address: of Certified Public Accountants to review and update rules regarding auditor independence, and the 1999 Blue 9 Creamer Hill Ribbon Committee on Improving the Effectiveness of Corporate Audit Committees. Greenwich, CT 06831 Mr. Phil Laskawy was appointed Chairman of Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) in United States September 2008 at the commencement of Fannie Mae’s conservatorship and retired from Fannie Mae’s Board First appointment: of Directors in March 2014. 2002 Mr. Laskawy had previously served on the Board of Directors of General Motors Corp. until June 2013, where he Expiry chaired the Audit Committee. of term of office: Mr. Phil Laskawy is a member of the Board of Directors of Loews Corp (and is a member of its Audit Committee). 2018 He has been a director of Henry Schein, Inc. since 2002 and has served as its Lead Director since 2012. He is also (Ordinary Shareholders’ Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and of the Meeting held to Strategic Advisory Committee of Henry Schein, Inc. Mr. Phil Laskawy has served as a director of Lazard Ltd and approve the 2017 Lazard Group LLC since July 2008 and is also Chairman of the Compensation Committee and a member of the financial statements) Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Lazard Ltd. Number of shares Mr. Phil Laskawy joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE in 2002 on the acquisition by Capgemini Group held at Dec. 31, 2017: of the systems integration business of Ernst and Young, when he was Chief Executive Officer. He is also a 1,000 member of the Audit & Risk Committee. Mr. Phil Laskawy brings to the Capgemini SE Board of Directors the outlook and experience of a highly respected individual in the economic and financial sector in the United States. He also contributes the accounting and financial expertise amassed throughout his career with Ernst and Young, his experience in the governance of listed companies in the United States, as well as in strategy and external growth operations in technological environments. Principal office: Director OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of:  LAZARD LTD* (USA) (since July 2008)  CAPGEMINI SE* (since 2002)  LOEWS CORPORATION* (USA) (since 2003)  HENRY SCHEIN, INC.* (USA) (since 2002)  LAZARD GROUP LLC (USA) (since July 2008) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Director of:  FANNIE MAE* (USA) (until March 2014)  GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION* (USA) (until June 2013) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 53 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors KEVIN MASTERS Director representing employees Member of the Compensation Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Kevin Masters joined the Capgemini Group in 1973. Experience gained within Capgemini mainly revolves around managing large groups of people in an operations or support environment. Mr. Kevin Masters has been engaged in the employee consultation process as the Chairman of both the Outsourcing Forum and National Works Council Groups since 2001. He was elected as the UK representative on Date of birth: the International Works Council (IWC), then as a member of the IWC Office, where he was the Secretary until his May 27, 1956 appointment as director representing employees in September 2016. Nationality: Between July 2014 and September 2016, Mr. Kevin Masters was invited as Secretary of the IWC to become a British non-voting member of the Capgemini SE Board of Directors. He was then also a permanent guest of the Business address: Compensation Committee. Capgemini UK Mr. Kevin Masters was appointed as a director representing employees on the Capgemini SE’s Board of Directors No.1 Forge End with effect from September 1, 2016. He is also a member of the Compensation Committee. Woking – Surrey Mr. Kevin Masters brings to the Board of Directors his great knowledge of the Capgemini Group and of its GU21 6DB businesses, his experience of technological environments, as well as the vision of an employee of Anglo-Saxon United Kingdom culture, thus contributing to the diversity of profiles represented on the Board. First appointment: Principal office: 2016 Expiry Project Management, Cloud Infrastructure Services with Capgemini UK. of term of office: OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 2020 Director of: (Ordinary Shareholders’  CAPGEMINI SE* (since September 2016) Meeting held to OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) approve the 2019 financial statements) N/A Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2017: 0 (*) Listed company. 54 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors XAVIER MUSCA Independent Director Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of Institut d’Etudes Politiques in Paris and École Nationale d’Administration, Mr. Xavier Musca began his career at the General Finance Inspectorate in 1985. In 1989, he joined the Treasury Directorate, where he became head of the European Affairs Bureau in 1990. In 1993, he was called to the Prime Minister’s staff, then returned to the Treasury Directorate in 1995. Between 2002 and 2004, he was Principal Private Secretary to 2 Francis Mer, Minister for the Economy, Finance and Industry, then appointed Treasury Director in 2004. He was Date of birth: subsequently appointed Director General of Treasury and Economic Policy in June 2005. In these positions, he February 23, 1960 played a key role in preparing major European and global summits at the start of the financial crisis. He was the Nationality: French negotiator at IMF and World Bank meetings and coordinated the bailout of the European Union banking French sector with his European counterparts. In 2009, he became Deputy Secretary General to the French President in Business address: charge of economic affairs and was responsible for negotiations at the G20 meeting in London on April 2, 2009 Crédit Agricole SA on placing the global financial system on a sounder footing and improving supervision and the fight against tax 50, avenue Jean havens. He was appointed Secretary General to the French President in 2011. Jaurès 92120 Montrouge On June 13, 2012, Mr. Xavier Musca was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA, First appointment: responsible for International retail banking, Asset management and Insurance. He has been Deputy Chief 2014 Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA, as effective second Executive Director of Crédit Agricole SA since Expiry May 2015. of term of office: Mr. Xavier Musca is a Knight of the Legion of Honor, the National Order of Merit and the Order of Agricultural 2018 Merit. (Ordinary Mr. Xavier Musca joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 7, 2014. He has been a member of the Shareholders’ Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date and was appointed Chairman on Meeting held to approve the 2017 December 7, 2016. Mr. Xavier Musca brings to the Board of Directors his management experience with a major financial statements) international group and his financial expertise. He has in-depth knowledge of the financial sector, including both Number of shares retail and BtoB services, which accounts for some 25% of Group revenues. He also provides the Board with his held at Dec. 31, 2017: knowledge of economic globalization issues. 1,000 Principal office: Mr. Xavier Musca has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer of CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA since July 2012. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Director – Vice-Chairman of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2014)  PREDICA (since November 2012) Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group: Director of: Deputy Chief Executive Officer (since July 2012)  CA ASSURANCES (since November 2012) and effective second Executive Director  CACI (since June 2013) (since May 2015) of: Director of:  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA*  CARIPARMA (ITALY) (since October 2016) (Member of the Management Committee – Member of the Executive Committee) Permanent Representation of Crédit Agricole SA on the Board of Directors of: Chairman of:  PACIFICA (since October 2012)  AMUNDI SA* Director (since July 2012, renewed in April 2015) and Chairman (since December 7, 2016)  CA CONSUMER FINANCE (since July 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group: Director – Vice-Chairman of: Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of:  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE EGYPT SAE* (until 2015)  CRÉDIT DU MAROC* (until 2015) Director of: Vice-Chairman of:  BESPAR (until May 2014)  UBAF (until 2015)  BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO (until December 2014) Member of the Executive Committee of:  CACEIS (until 2015)  CARIPARMA (ITALY) (until 2015) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 55 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors PATRICK POUYANNÉ Independent Director Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Patrick Pouyanné is a graduate of École Polytechnique and a Chief Engineer of France’s Corps des Mines. Between 1989 and 1996, he held various administrative positions in the Ministry of Industry and other cabinet positions (technical advisor to the Prime Minister in the fields of the Environment and Industry – Édouard Balladur – from 1993 to 1995, Chief of Staff for the Minister for Information and Aerospace Technologies – François Fillon – from 1995 to 1996). In January 1997, he joined Total’s Exploration & Production division, first as Date of birth: Chief Administrative Officer in Angola, before becoming Group representative in Qatar and President of the June 24, 1963 Exploration and Production subsidiary in that country in 1999. In August 2002, he was appointed President, Nationality: Finance, Economy and IT for Exploration & Production In January 2006, he became President, Strategy, Growth French and Research in Exploration & Production and was appointed a member of the Group’s Management Committee Business address: in May 2006. In March 2011, Mr. Pouyanné was appointed Vice-President, Chemicals, and Vice-President, TOTAL SA Petrochemicals. In January 2012, he became President, Refining & Chemicals and a member of the Group’s 2, Place Jean Millier Executive Committee. 92400 Courbevoie On October 22, 2014, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Total and President of the Group’s Executive First appointment: Committee. On May 29, 2015, the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting appointed him a director of Total SA for a 2017 three-year term. At its meeting on December 16, 2015, Total’s Board of Directors appointed him as its Chairman Expiry from December 19, 2015 for the remainder of his term of office as director. Mr. Patrick Pouyanné is now of term of office: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Total. 2021 (Ordinary Mr. Patrick Pouyanné has been a director of Capgemini SE since May 10, 2017 and a member of the Strategy Shareholders’ & Investment Committee since September 1, 2017. Meeting held to He brings to the Board of Directors of Capgemini his expertise in macroeconomic and geopolitic issues and his approve the 2020 financial statements) experience in managing a leading international energy group, a sector where new technologies play an essential Number of shares role. held at Dec. 31, 2017: Principal office: 1,000 (1) Mr. Patrick Pouyanné has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Total SA since December 2015. He has been a Director of Total SA since May 2015 and is Chairman of the Strategy & CSR Committee. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2017) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of:  TOTAL SA* (since December 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in TOTAL Group: Chairman and Director of:  TOTAL RAFFINAGE-CHIMIE (until 2014)  TOTAL PETROCHEMICALS & REFINING SA/NV (until 2014) (*) Listed company. (1) Mr. Patrick Pouyanné purchased these Capgemini SE shares prior to his appointment as director, approved by shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. He was not therefore required to disclose this transaction to the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF). 56 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors PIERRE PRINGUET Lead Independent Director Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee Member of the Compensation Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Pierre Pringuet is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École des Mines. He started his career in the French civil service, where he was appointed as an advisor to government minister Michel Rocard (1981–1985), before being given responsibility for the Farming and Food Processing Industries at the Ministry of Agriculture. He 2 joined Pernod Ricard in 1987 as Development Director, playing an active role in the Group’s international development and holding the positions of Managing Director of Société pour l’Exportation de Grandes Marques (1987–1996) and then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard Europe (1997–2000). In 2000, he Date of birth: joined Patrick Ricard at the Headquarters as one of Pernod Ricard’s two joint CEOs. He was appointed a director January 31, 1950 of Pernod Ricard in 2004 and led the successful acquisition of Allied Domecq in 2005 and its subsequent Nationality: integration. In December of the same year, he became the Group’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Chief French Operating Officer. In 2008, Pierre Pringuet carried out the acquisition of Vin&Sprit (V&S) and its brand Absolut Business address: Vodka, which completed Pernod Ricard’s international development. Following the withdrawal of Patrick Ricard Pernod Ricard from his operational duties, Mr. Pierre Pringuet was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard on 12, place des November 5, 2008. He performed his duties as CEO until February 11, 2015, the date of expiry of his term of États-Unis office pursuant to the Company’s bylaws. He is Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Pernod Ricard since 75783 Paris Cedex 16 August 29, 2012 and plays an active role, together with the Appointments, Governance and CSR Committee, in First appointment: the management of all corporate governance issues. He is also a member of the Pernod Ricard Strategy 2009 Committee and Compensation Committee. Expiry of term of office: Mr. Pierre Pringuet is Vice-Chairman of the Vallourec Supervisory Board and Lead Independent Director since 2021 February 23, 2015. He is also Chairman of the Vallourec Appointments, Compensation and Governance (Ordinary Committee. Mr. Pierre Pringuet was appointed to the Board of Directors of ILIAD SA on July 25, 2007 and is a Shareholders’ member of the Appointments and Compensation Committee. Meeting held to Mr. Pierre Pringuet was President of the Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) (French approve the 2020 Association of Private Enterprises) from June 2012 to May 2017. financial statements) Number of shares He holds the ranks of Knight of the Legion of Honor, Knight of the National Order of Merit and Officer of the held at Dec. 31, 2017: Order of Agricultural Merit. 1,700 Mr. Pierre Pringuet joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on April 30, 2009. He is Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 10, 2017 and a member of the Compensation Committee since June 17, 2009, which he chaired from May 2014 to May 2017. Mr. Pierre Pringuet brings to the Board extensive experience in the Retail sector, as a senior executive of an international group. He shares with the Board his expertise in corporate governance issues and executive compensation, as well as his strategy and development experience, particularly in international external growth transactions. Principal office: Mr. Pierre Pringuet has been Vice-Chairman of Pernod Ricard since August 2012. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Vice-Chairman and Lead Independent Director  CAPGEMINI SE* (since April 2009) of the Supervisory Board of:  ILIAD SA*(since July 2007)  VALLOUREC* (since February 2015)  AVRIL GESTION SAS (GROUPE AVRIL) Chairman of: (since December 2014)  AFEP (French Association of Private Enterprises) Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of: (until May 2017)  PERNOD RICARD* (since August 2012)  Amicale du Corps des Mines (ACM) (since 2015)  Fondation ParisTech (since January 2016)  Scotch Whisky Association (since December 2014) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chief Executive Officer of: Chairman of:  PERNOD RICARD* (until February 2015)  AgroParisTech (until December 2016) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 57 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors BRUNO ROGER Director Chairman of the Strategy & Investment Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Bruno Roger is a graduate of Institut d’Etudes Politiques (IEP) in Paris. He began, his career with Lazard Frères in 1958. In 1973 he was appointed Manager of Lazard, followed by Managing Partner and then Chairman from 2002 to 2017. Date of birth: Mr. Bruno Roger has been Vice-Chairman of Lazard Group, Honorary Chairman of Lazard Frères Banque and August 6, 1933 Senior Partner of Lazard Frères SAS since October 1, 2017. He was Chairman of Lazard Frères SAS and Nationality: Compagnie Financière Lazard Frères SAS until October 1, 2017. He was also Managing Partner of Lazard French Partners Ltd (1984-1999) and Managing Director of Lazard Frères and Co, New York (1995-2001). He was Business address: Chairman of the Board of Directors of Lazard Frères Banque until October 1, 2017. Mr. Bruno Roger is Managing Lazard Frères Director and a Member of the Executive Committee of Lazard Group. 121, boulevard After serving as Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Eurafrance (1974-2001) and Chairman and Chief Haussmann Executive Officer of Financière et Industrielle Gaz et Eaux, and subsequently Azeo (1990-2002), Mr. Bruno Roger 75008 Paris was appointed Chairman of the Eurazeo Supervisory Board (following the merger of Azeo and Eurafrance) in First appointment: 2002. He has been Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eurazeo since May 5, 2004. 2000 Mr. Bruno Roger was also a member of the Supervisory Board of UAP (now Axa), Crédit Immobilier Industriel Expiry Sovac and PinaultPrintemps (now Kering) (1994-2005). He also served on the Board of Directors of LVMH, of term of office: Saint-Gobain (1987-2005), Thomson CSF (now Thales) (1992-2002), Sofina (1989-2004), Marine Wendel 2018 (1988-2002), SFGI (1987-2001), Sidel (1993-2001), Immobilière Marseillaise, Moët Hennessy, Pechiney, PSA (Ordinary Finance, Sanofi and UAP. Shareholders’ Meeting held to A philanthropist, Mr. Bruno Roger is also Chairman of the Aix-en-Provence International Music Festival, approve the 2017 Vice-Chairman of the Amis du Quai Branly and a member of the Board of Directors of the Decorative Arts financial statements) festival. Number of shares Mr. Bruno Roger holds the ranks of Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor and Commander of the Order of Arts held at Dec. 31, 2017: and Letters. 1,000 He has sat on the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE since May 23, 2000. He has been Chairman of the Strategy & Investment Committee since May 7, 2014 and a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since July 26, 2006. He brings considerable expertise in international development strategy and external growth to the Board of Directors. As a director of Capgemini, the only directorship of a listed company he has wished to continue, Mr. Bruno Roger brings to the Board his proven corporate governance experience on numerous, prestigious French boards of directors. Principal office: Mr. Bruno Roger is Vice-Chairman of Lazard Group, Honorary Chairman of Lazard Frères Banque and Senior Partner of Lazard Frères SAS. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board of:  CAPGEMINI SE*  EURAZEO* (since May 2004) Chairman of: Honorary Chairman of:  LAZARD FRÈRES SAS (until October 1, 2017)  LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE  COMPAGNIE FINANCIÈRE LAZARD FRÈRES SAS  LA SOCIÉTÉ FRANÇAISE DES ANALYSTES (until October 1, 2017) FINANCIERS Chairman of : Member of the Board of Directors of:  GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKING of LAZARD FRÈRES  PARIS EUROPLACE GROUP (since 2005)  ARTS DÉCORATIFS Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Chairman of:  LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE (until October 1, 2017)  AIX-EN-PROVENCE INTERNATIONAL MUSIC Senior Partner of: FESTIVAL  LAZARD FRÈRES SAS  FONDATION MARTINE AUBLET Member of the Executive Committee Vice-Chairman of: and Managing Director of:  LAZARD GROUP (since 2017)  LAZARD GROUP (since 2000)  LES AMIS DU MUSÉE DU QUAI BRANLY OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Non-voting director of:  LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE  EURAZEO* (until 2013) (*) Listed company. 58 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors LUCIA SINAPI-THOMAS Director representing employee shareholders Member of the Compensation Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Lucia Sinapi graduated from ESSEC business school (1986) and Paris Law University Panthéon Assas (1988), was admitted to the Paris bar (1989), and has a financial analyst degree (SFAF 1997). She started her career as a tax and business lawyer in 1986, before joining Capgemini in 1992. She has more than 20 years’ experience within Capgemini Group, successively as Group Tax Advisor (1992), head of Corporate Finance, Treasury and 2 Investors Relations (1999), then head of Risk Management and Insurance (2005), and member of the Group Date of birth: Review Board. She was Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2013 until December 31, 2015. Ms. Lucia January 19, 1964 Sinapi-Thomas is Executive Director Business Platforms at Capgemini. Nationality: French Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas was appointed to the Dassault Aviation Board of Directors on May 15, 2014, where she Business address: is also a member of the Audit Committee. She has also been a director of Bureau Veritas since May 22, 2013 and was appointed to the Audit & Risk Committee on the same date. Capgemini Service 76, avenue Kléber Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE as a director representing employee 75016 Paris shareholders on May 24, 2012. She has been a member of the Compensation Committee since June 20, 2012. First appointment: Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas brings to the Board her finance expertise and her extensive knowledge of the 2012 Capgemini Group, its businesses, offerings and clients, enriched by her ongoing operating responsibilities. In Expiry addition, her experience as a director of Euronext listed companies provides her with a perspective offering of term of office: insight relevant to Capgemini’s various activities. 2020 Principal office: (Ordinary Shareholders’ Ms. Lucia Sinapi Thomas has been Executive Director Business Platforms of Capgemini Group since Meeting held to January 2016. approve the 2019 OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 financial statements) Number of shares Director of: Director of: held at Dec. 31, 2017:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since April 2009)  CAPGEMINI SOGETI DANMARK A/S (Denmark) 20,137 (since June 2014)  BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2013)  DASSAULT AVIATION* (since May 2014)  SOGETI SVERIGE AB (Sweden) (since November 2008) Executive Director:  SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (Sweden) BUSINESS PLATFORMS, CAPGEMINI (since January 2016) (since November 2008) Other offices held in Capgemini Group:  SOGETI NORGE A/S (Norway) (since January 2009) Chairman of:  CAPGEMINI POLSKA Sp.z.o.o. (Poland)  CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WOLRLDWIDE S.A.S. (since March 2016) (since June 2012)  CAPGEMINI BUSINESS SERVICES GUATEMALA S.A. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: (since April 2016)  FCPE Capgemini Chief Executive Officer of: Member of the Supervisory Board of:  CAPGEMINI OUTSOURCING SERVICES S.A.S.  FCPE ESOP CAPGEMINI (since April 2017) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Capgemini Group: Deputy Chief Financial Officer of:  CAPGEMINI SE (until December 2015) Director of:  CAPGEMINI REINSURANCE INTERNATIONAL S.A. (Luxembourg) (until April 2016)  EURIWARE SA (until July 2015)  SOGETI SA/NV (Belgium) (until December 2013) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 59 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors CAROLINE WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Independent Director Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle graduated from the University of Gent, Belgium, in Chemical Engineering, Modeling and holds a Master of Science (MS) in Biochemical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania (USA). Date of birth: Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle started her career in 1977 working for Hoffman as a research scientist. In 1979, February 24, 1952 she joined Office of the Future & Netcube Inc. where she rose from consultant to President, a position she left in Nationality: 1994 to become Managing Director, Risk Management & Financial Services Technology at the Bankers Trust American Company. In 1997 she became Managing Director Information Technology at Credit Suisse, and in 2000 was Address: Executive Vice-President and CTO at TradingEdge, the first electronic bond trading exchange. Between 2001 6913 Wescott Drive and 2004 she was Managing Director and Global CTO of iFormation Group, a venture capital fund representing a collaboration between The Boston Consulting Group, Goldman Sachs, and General Atlantic Partners. Colleyville, TX 76034 United States She joined PepsiCo in June 2004 as CIO for North America, supporting both the Beverage and the Food First appointment: Businesses. In 2007 she was promoted to Global Chief Technology Officer and SVP of Business Information 2014 Solutions of Pepsico, where she managed all infrastructure and enterprise application support systems, and Expiry technology innovations like advanced digital media and mobile platforms integrated with real-time data of term of office: analytics. From October 2014 to summer 2016 she was a Technology Officer for Warburg Pincus, one of the 2018 leading global Private Equity firms, responsible for IT diligence for prospective investments, as well as providing (Ordinary Technology Advisory Services to Warburg’s existing portfolio companies. Shareholders’ Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 7, 2014. She was also Meeting held to appointed a member of the Compensation Committee and the Strategy & Investment Committee at the same approve the 2017 financial statements) date. Number of shares Born in Belgium, Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle has spent her entire professional career in the United States as held at Dec. 31, 2017: a technology officer in the financial sector and then the consumer goods sector. She has in-depth knowledge of 1,000 technology developments and of their Digital transformation and an understanding of their impact on user companies, both on their organizations and on their relationships with clients and partners. Furthermore, Ms. Watteeuw-Carlisle’s dual European and US background gives her a perfect understanding of the two regions where the Group generates 92% of its revenues. Ms. Watteeuw-Carlisle contributes to the Group’s strategic discussions through both her professional experience and personal history. Principal office: Since June 2016, Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle is EVP and Chief Technology Officer of Caliber Home Loans, located at 1525 South Beltline Rd, Coppell, TX, USA. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Member of the Board of Directors of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2014)  NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (NYIT) EVP and Chief Technology Officer of: (since January 2016)  CALIBER HOME LOANS (since June 2016) Chief Technology Advisor of: Member of the Advisory Committee of:  BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (since June 2016)  BLUE YONDER GmbH (since August 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Technology Officer of: Member of the Advisory Committees of:  WARBURG-PINCUS LLC (USA) (until June 2016)  HP PRINTING MANAGED SERVICES BOARD OF Global Chief Technology Officer and SVP Business ADVISORY COUNCIL (until July 2014) Information Solutions of:  INTEL CAPITAL (until September 2013)  PEPSICO (until September 2013)  ACORIO (until September 2013)  OCULUS360 (until October 2014) (*) Listed company. 60 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.4 Transactions carried out by members of the Board of Directors and other senior managers in the Company’s shares The following transactions were carried out in 2017 by directors ❚ subscription on December 18, 2017 of 21.9617 “ESOP and senior managers in the Company's shares, based on Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at disclosures submitted to the French Financial Markets Authority a unit value of €89.39 under the 2017 employee share (AMF), Article 223-26 of the AMF's General Regulations and ownership plan (declaration 2017DD531382); information communicated to the Company for the preparation  Ms. Lucia Sinapi (director) and individuals closely related to 2 of the Registration Document pursuant to European Commission her, disclosed the following transactions: Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 and European Regulation no. 596/2014 of April 16, 2017: ❚ a gift by Ms. Sinapi on May 12, 2017 to closely related individuals of 3,980 Capgemini SE shares at a unit price of  Mr. Paul Hermelin (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer) €95.47, comprising 1,045 shares to Hélène Thomas (child), disclosed the following transactions: 1,045 shares to Adrien Thomas (child), 1,045 shares to Sonia ❚ sale of 15,000 Capgemini SE shares on April 5, 2017 at a unit Thomas (child) and 845 shares to Jean-Marc Thomas (spouse) price of €86 (declaration 2017DD472071), (closely-related individuals) (declarations 2017DD487857, ❚ subscription on September 28, 2017 of 2,786.2755 “ESOP 2017DD476662, 2017DD476660, 2017DD476663 and 2017DD476659), Capgemini” FCPE units, in the “Capgemini shareholder fund” compartment (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at a unit ❚ sale by Ms. Sinapi on September 28, 2017 of 350.0303 “ESOP value of €98.17 through reinvestment at the end of the Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at a 2012 employee share ownership plan unit value of €158.48 at the end of the 2012 employee share (declaration 2017DD512648), ownership plan (declaration 2017DD512449), ❚ subscription on December 18, 2017 of 374.9558 “ESOP ❚ subscription by Ms. Sinapi on December 18, 2017 of 87.6812 Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at “ESOP Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE a unit value of €89.39 under the 2017 employee share shares) at a unit value of €89.39 under the 2017 employee ownership plan (declaration 2017DD531309); share ownership plan (declaration 2017DD531411);  Mr. Robert Fretel (director) disclosed the following  Mr. Aiman Ezzat (Chief Financial Officer) disclosed the transactions: following transactions: ❚ sale on September 28, 2017 of 109.2442 “ESOP Capgemini” ❚ sale on September 28, 2017 of 776.5656 “ESOP Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at a unit value FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at a unit value of €158.48 at the end of the 2012 employee share of €158.48 at the end of the 2012 employee share ownership plan (declaration 2017DD512719), ownership plan (declaration 2017DD512345), ❚ subscription on December 18, 2017 of 14.4192 “ESOP ❚ subscription on December 18, 2017 of 223.0903 “ESOP Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at a unit value of €89.39 under the 2017 employee share a unit value of €89.39 under the 2017 employee share ownership plan (declaration 2017DD531344); ownership plan (declaration 2017DD531364),  Mr. Kevin Masters (director) disclosed the following transactions: ❚ sale on September 28, 2017 of 75.5023 “ESOP Capgemini” FCPE units (invested in Capgemini SE shares) at a unit value of €158.48 at the end of the 2012 employee share ownership plan (declaration 2017DD512379), REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 61 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors GOVERNANCE BODIES Ethics & Governance Board of Directors Strategy & Committee Investment Committee 4 16 7 100% 50% 6 100% 50%(1) 4 Attendance Members Independence Meetings Attendance Members Independence Meetings Members 95% 62%(1) Compensation Audit & Committee Attendance Independence Risk Committee 5 10 4 5 92% 100% (1) 5 Meetings Executive 86% 80% 8 sessions Attendance Members Independence Meetings Attendance Members Independence Meetings NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. (1) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 2.2.1 Organization of the Board of Directors The role of the Board of Directors  created the role of Lead Independent Director in May 2014, with specific prerogatives and duties to contribute to the The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the balanced governance of Capgemini where the duties of key strategies of Capgemini SE and the Group it controls, to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are regrouped (see ensure that these strategies are implemented, to validate the 2.2.1 below); legal and operational structure of the Group and the appointment of key managers and, more generally, to address  adopted a system for allocating attendance fees, whereby any issues that arise in respect of the day-to-day operation of the the majority of such fees are indexed to attendance at Board Group. Given Capgemini's business as a service provider, the and Committee meetings (see Section 2.2.5); Board pays particular attention to the management of the  periodically reviewed the personal situation of each Group's 199,698 (1) employees and thousands of managers across director in light of the definition of independence adopted the globe. by the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code (“a director is independent when he/she has no relationship of any sort Operating rules with the Company, the Group or its Management, that is likely For many years, the Capgemini SE Board of Directors has applied to impair his/her judgment”) (see Section 2.1.2); the best governance practices now aligned with the  regularly assessed its organization and operation, either recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance at the time of the annual internal assessment performed by Code to which Capgemini refers. Accordingly, the Board has: the Lead Independent Director or three-yearly, through the assessment conducted by an external consultant under the  prepared, adopted, applied and amended where useful or responsibility of the Lead Independent Director (see Section necessary the Charter of the Board of Directors, particularly 2.2.3); as part of a constant drive to improve the governance of the Company (see below);  assessed since 2015 the effective contribution of each director to the activities of the Board of Directors, at the time  set up four Specialized Board Committees the Audit & Risk of the annual Board assessment (see Section 2.2.3). Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Ethics & Governance Committee, and finally the Strategy & Investment Committee and given each a clearly defined role (see Section 2.2.4); (1) At December 31, 2017 62 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code Following the 2015 Board assessment which identified the need to improve the coordination of risk monitoring activities by Capgemini SE is constantly seeking to improve its governance associating the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, the and regularly monitors its compliance with the provisions of the Charter of the Audit Committee was revised in December 2016 AFEP-MEDEF Code. to extend and clarify its risk monitoring duties. The Committee’s Accordingly, the Company has voluntarily brought the following name was also changed to the Audit & Risk Committee. The issues, explained in previous years by the Company, into Charter of the Board of Directors was also amended in 2016 in a compliance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code: variety of areas, including risk monitoring and the participation  the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 of directors representing employees on the Board. The most 2 amended the Company's bylaws to provide for the staggered recent amendments to the Charter were adopted in May 2017 renewal of the terms of office of directors, in line with following the adoption of the European company legal status, Article 13.2 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code; with Capgemini S.A. becoming Capgemini SE.  in accordance with Article 21 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Organization of powers employment contract of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was terminated on February 18, 2015; The Charter sets out or clarifies the scope of and bases for exercising the various powers entrusted to the Board of  in light of the recommendations of the AMF and the Directors, the four Specialized Board Committees, the Chairman Corporate Governance High Committee, the Board of and Chief Executive Officer, the Vice-Chairman and the Lead Directors implemented an appraisal procedure in 2015 to Independent Director. assess the absence of conflicts of interest for Independent Directors. The Board of Directors represents shareholders. With the exception of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Furthermore, following recent changes in the AFEP-MEDEF Code directors have no individual powers and actions and decisions in November 2016, the following points no longer represent must therefore be taken on a collective basis. deviations from the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code: The role of the four Specialized Board Committees is to study  performance shares are granted to executive corporate and document the issues that the Board has scheduled for officers conditional upon the acquisition of a defined quantity discussion and to present recommendations on the subjects and of shares once the shares granted are available; sectors within their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. The  the Audit Committee has a minimum period of two days to Committees are consultation bodies and therefore hold no review the accounts before their review by the Board. decision-making powers. Their members and the Chairman are Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in appointed by the Board of Directors and are selected exclusively Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code and from among Capgemini SE directors. They are appointed in a stipulated in Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate personal capacity and may under no circumstances be Governance Code for listed companies revised in represented at the meetings of the Committee(s) to which they November 2016, the Company considers that its practices belong. The Board reserves the right to amend at any time the comply fully with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF number and/or make-up of these Committees, as well as the Code. scope of their duties. Finally, the Charters of each of the four Committee and any amendments thereto which the Committee may later propose must be formally approved by the Board. Board Charters The Charters of the Board of Directors and the Specialized Board As Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and Chief Committees are available on the Company’s website: Executive Officer prepares, organizes and leads its work. He www.capgemini.com. sets the agenda of meetings, communicates to directors all information necessary to carry out their duties and oversees the proper operation of the Company's bodies, the correct Regularly updated Charters implementation of Board decisions and compliance with the When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a rules of good conduct adopted by Capgemini. He chairs traditional limited liability company (société anonyme) in Combined Shareholders' Meetings to which he reports on the May 2000, a new Charter was debated and adopted by the Board activities and decisions of the Board. of Directors. In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman chairs The Charter has since been amended several times in line with meetings of the Board of Directors and Shareholders’ Meetings. changes in the Company and as part of the constant drive to As indicated in Section 2.1.1, he also has a specific remit to improve governance with the dual aim of facilitating the prepare changes in the Group’s governance. collective performance of the Board of Directors' activities and satisfying the corporate governance expectations of A Lead Independent Director is appointed where the duties of shareholders and their representatives. Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are regrouped. In particular, the position of Lead Independent Director was created in 2014. The respective duties of the Compensation The roles and composition of the Specialized Board Committees are Committee (formerly the Selection & Compensation Committee) presented in Section 2.2.4. The role and prerogatives of the Lead and the Ethics & Governance Committee were revised in 2014, Independent Director are set-out below. with the Compensation Committee focusing exclusively on As Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and Chief setting executive corporate officer compensation and defining Executive Officer has the most extensive powers to act in all compensation policy for Group senior executives and the duties circumstances in the name of the Company, subject to the of the Ethics & Governance Committee expanded to include the restrictions presented below. He may be assisted in his duties by selection of and succession plans for key managers of the Group. one or more Chief Operating Officers. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 63 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Limits on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer Roles of the Lead Independent Director The Charter stipulates that the Chief Executive Officer must seek The roles of the Lead Independent Director, resulting from the and obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors for any Charter of the Board of Directors and Board decisions, are as decision which is of major strategic importance or which is liable to follows: have a material impact, either directly or indirectly, on the financial  he is consulted by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on position or commitments of the Company or those of one or more the proposed Board meeting schedule presented for the of its principal subsidiaries. This applies in particular to: approval of the Board and on the draft agenda for each  the draft annual budget prepared in accordance with the meeting of the Board of Directors; threeyear plan;  he can propose to the Chairman the inclusion of items on the  the approval of the annual investment and divestment agenda of Board of Directors' meetings at his own initiative or budget; at the request of one of more Board members;  the conclusion of material strategic alliances;  he can bring together Board members in the absence of  acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not executive corporate officers in so-called “executive sessions”, recorded in the annual investment budget, individually worth at his own initiative or at the request of one of more Board more than €100 million, or for smaller investments, resulting members, to discuss a specific agenda; he chairs any such in the €300 million cumulative annual ceiling being exceeded; meetings;  financial transactions with a material impact on the Company  he leads the assessment of the performance of the Board of financial statements or the consolidated financial statements Directors and the Specialized Committees; of the Group and particularly issues of securities granting  he steers the search for new candidates for the Board of access to the Company's share capital or market debt Directors; instruments;  he chairs the annual meeting of the Board of Directors  the grant to employees of incentive instruments granting convened to assess the performance of the Chairman and access to the Company's share capital and particularly Chief Executive Officer and any Chief Operating Officers; performance shares;  he holds regular discussions with the other directors to ensure  material internal reorganization transactions; they have the means necessary to perform their duties in a  material changes to the scope or range of businesses; satisfactory manner and in particular that they receive sufficient information prior to the Board meetings;  increases or decreases in the share capital of a direct subsidiary of Capgemini, concerning an amount in excess of  he conducts specific reviews to verify the absence of conflicts €50 million; of interest within the Board of Directors;  specific authorizations concerning the granting of pledges,  he may communicate with Company shareholders on security and guarantees, other than the delegation of governance and compensation issues; authority granted annually to him up to the maximum amount  he reports on his actions to the Annual Shareholders' Meeting. set by the Board of Directors. The Lead Independent Director is assisted by the General The limits on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer set out in Secretary in the exercise of his duties. the Charter of the Board of Directors also apply to the Chief Operating Officers. Report on the Lead Independent Director’s activities in 2017 Lead Independent Director In 2017, the duties of Lead Independent Director were exercised As part of the constant drive to improve governance within the successively by Mr. Daniel Bernard until the Combined Company, the position of Lead Independent Director was Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 and Mr. Pierre Pringuet created in May 2014 and entrusted to Mr. Daniel Bernard. thereafter. Mr. Pierre Pringuet was appointed Lead Independent Director in The Lead Independent Director focused his activities on the May 2017. following areas in 2017: When the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and  he was closely involved in the preparation of Board of Chief Executive Officer are exercised by the same person, the Directors’ meetings, particularly as concerns the different Board of Directors appoints a Lead Independent Director. The governance issues presented to the Board and was consulted duties of the Lead Independent Director are entrusted by the by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on the agendas Board to the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, of all Board meetings; elected by the Board of Directors from among its members classified as independent. The duties of Lead Independent  in the second-half of the year, together with the Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee Vice-Chairman, Mr. Daniel Bernard and the most senior may be revoked at any time by the Board of Directors. member of the Board, Mr. Bruno Roger, he considered changes in the Group’s governance. This led to the As for any other director, the Lead Independent Director may be appointment of two Chief Operating Officers, at the a member of one or more Specialized Board Committees in recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer addition to the Ethics & Governance Committee that he chairs. (see Sections 2.2.2 and 2.2.4); He may also attend the meetings of Specialized Board Committees of which he is not a member. 64 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors  he met with several institutional investors to present (i) the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Capgemini’s governance principles as part of the Company’s Officer (attainment of his individual objectives for 2016, dialogue with its shareholders; he reported on these setting of his individual objectives for 2017, initial discussions to the Board of Directors and to the Ethics & discussion of the objectives to be adopted for 2018 and Governance Committee, whose members include the performance share grants) (sessions held during the Chairman of the Compensation Committee; Board of Directors’ meetings of February 15, October 5  at the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, he led the and December 6, 2017), and internal assessment of the Board and its Specialized Committees for 2017, based on a questionnaire and individual (ii) preparing changes in the Group’s governance (session held during the Board of Directors’ meeting of 2 meetings with each of the members of the Board. This also August 31, 2017); enabled him to assess the individual contribution of each  he also reported to shareholders of the Company on his director to the Board’s activities (see Section 2.2.3); activities and on the activities of the Board and its Specialized  in the context of the Ethics & Governance Committee, he led Committees in respect of 2017 at the Shareholders’ Meeting the search process for candidates upstream of the of May 10, 2017. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 and participated in During the last Board assessments in 2015 and 2016, the the integration of the new director appointed by the directors expressed their full satisfaction with the creation of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017; position of Lead Independent Director in 2014, highlighting the  he chaired the four executive sessions of the Board during the importance of its role and activities in achieving the balance year, held without the presence of the Chairman and Chief desired by the Board, in line with best governance practices. Executive Officer. These meetings focused on: REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 65 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Director ethics The Charter of the Board of Directors sets out the main obligations of the Code of Business Ethics that Capgemini SE directors undertake to comply with throughout their term of office. An extract of the Code of Business Ethics is included in the Charter of the Board of Directors and detailed below: “The Directors (and any other person who attends Board or Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee. The Committee meetings) are required to treat as strictly Chairman informs the Board of Directors of appointments confidential matters discussed during Board or Committee accepted. meetings and all Board or committee decisions, as well as any 4 The members of the Board of Directors must attend all information of a confidential nature or that is presented as meetings of the Board and all meetings of the committees such by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Chairman of which they are members, as well as all Shareholders' (as applicable) or any other Director. Meetings. In its annual Registration Document, the Each Director undertakes to comply with the following Company publishes Directors' individual attendance rates obligations, unless he/she has informed the Chairman and Chief at meetings of the Board and the committees of which they Executive Officer or Chairman (as applicable), in writing, of any are members, as well as their average attendance rates. objections to one or several of such obligations: 5 The Directors are obliged to keep abreast of the Company's 1 Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors situation and development. To this end, they may ask the represent all the shareholders and are required to act in all Chairman to communicate on a timely basis all information circumstances in the Company's interest. They are required that is essential to allow them to contribute effectively to to notify the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance the discussion of matters included on the agenda of the Committee or the Board of any one-off conflict of interests next Board meeting. Regarding information not available to or potential conflict of interests and to refrain from voting the public that is obtained in their capacity, Directors are on the related decision. Any director who has a permanent subject to secrecy rules extending beyond the simple conflict of interest is required to resign from the Board. requirement of discretion imposed by law. 2 Each Director undertakes to hold (or to purchase within six 6 In accordance with laws and regulations applicable to months of his/her election) at least 1,000 shares of the insider trading, as set more specifically by the French Company. The shares acquired to fulfill this obligation must Monetary and Financial Code and the General Regulations be held in registered form. This obligation does not apply of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF), the to directors representing employees and employee members of the Board of Directors shall refrain from: shareholders.  carrying out any transactions on the securities (including 3 The Directors are required to devote the necessary time derivatives) of companies about which (and in the and attention to their functions. The Directors may not hold extent to which) they have privileged information by more than four other appointments in French or foreign virtue of their position as member of the Board of listed companies that are not members of the Capgemini Directors of the Company, Group and must comply with all applicable regulations  carrying out any transactions, whether direct, indirect or restricting the number of directorships held by a single through derivatives, involving the securities of the person. The Chief Executive Officer and any Chief Company: Operating Officers may not hold more than two other ❚ during a period commencing on the thirtieth calendar directorships in French or foreign listed companies that are day preceding the public release of mid-year and not members of the Capgemini Group; they must request full-year results and ending after the close of the first the opinion of the Board before accepting any new trading day following the said public release, appointment in a listed company. If the Chairman is not also the Chief Executive Officer, the Board may issue specific ❚ and during a period commencing on the fifteenth recommendations, given his/her status and specific calendar day preceding quarterly announcements and assignments. ending after the close of the first trading day following the said public release. During the term of their office at the Company, Directors must keep the Chairman of the Board informed of any 7 In conformity with the Monetary and Financial Code and offers of appointments they would like to accept in other with the General Regulations of the French Financial French or foreign companies, and their membership on Markets Authority (AMF) each Director is required to notify Board committees of these companies, as well as any the AMF and the Company by electronic means of all change in their appointments or participation in these transactions carried out involving Capgemini SE securities committees. If the functions of Chairman and Chief within three business days following their execution.” Executive Officer are combined, he/she will inform the 66 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Board seeks to comply with and ensure compliance with all In addition, the new members joining the Audit & Risk rules of good governance together with a certain number of Committee receive information on the specific accounting, values which each Board member has solemnly undertaken to financial and operating aspects of the Company. In addition, the respect. A “Code of Business Ethics” was drafted at its initiative two directors representing employees who joined the Board in and distributed to all Group employees (and is signed by all new September 2016 received special external training, enabling recruits) with the following main objectives: them to obtain and perfect the knowledge and techniques necessary to the exercise of their duties, in accordance with  ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number of legislative provisions. rules of good behavior and primarily that of perfect integrity 2 in the conduct of business and the management of employees; Ongoing training  implement measures stopping, fighting and sanctioning Capgemini ensures that the directors have sufficient non-compliance with the core values of the Group, or understanding of the Group, its ecosystem and its challenges. prevailing laws and regulations in the relevant country; The Board members therefore meet regularly with the members of the Group Executive Board during Board and Committee  provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls meetings. The directors are also invited to the Group and dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems “Rencontres” gatherings, a two-yearly event bringing together, identified by these measures. over three days, 500 of the Group's key managers and emerging The report on the work of the Ethics & Governance Committee talent. The most recent “Rencontres” gathering was held in (see below) describes in detail the actions undertaken in 2017 by October 2017. In addition, each year a Board meeting dedicated the Ethics & Compliance Department and the implementation of to strategy is held “off-premises” in the form of a seminar and the Code of Business Ethics. Each of the directors signed this invites key managers of the Group to contribute to Board Code, evidencing their commitment and support (both individual discussions. These seminars also enable directors to constantly and collective) for all the measures contained therein. refine their understanding of the challenges facing the Group through themed-based presentations and site visits. In 2017, this seminar was held in London. Director training Finally, in accordance with the priorities identified following the Integration of new directors external assessment of the Board in 2016, the Board organized a Capgemini ensures that directors joining the Board receive range of specific training sessions throughout 2017 to enable training in the specific aspects of the Group, its businesses and directors increase their knowledge of the Group (through activity sectors, particularly through meetings with the various presentations of its ecosystem, challenges, businesses and members of Group Management. New directors are also advised certain of its regions) and its competitive environment, as well as on the specific aspects of the Board of Directors of the Company recent market disruption trends and technological during meetings with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, developments. the Lead Independent Director and the Board Secretary. 2.2.2 Activities of the Board of Directors in 2017 Board of Directors’ meeting 2017 was a particularly intense year for the Board of Directors, notably due to the “Rencontres” gathering in October and Number of meetings and attendance rate specific work focusing on changes in the Group’s governance and The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are convened the appointment of two Chief Operating Officers, requiring the by the Chairman in accordance with a schedule decided by the organization of two exceptional Board meetings in the Board before the end of the prior year. This schedule may be second-half of the year and four exceptional meetings in all of amended during the year in response to unforeseen the Specialized Committees involved, i.e. the Ethics & circumstances or at the request of more than one director. Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee. In 2017, the Board met 10 times during the year, four times The average attendance rate at Board meetings, already high during the first-half and six times during the second-half. in previous years, improved further in 2017 to 95%, despite the increase in the number of meetings. This demonstrates the The Board retained the principle of an “off-premises” meeting in involvement and availability of the directors throughout the year London, focusing primarily on Group strategy. This meeting was for issues of particular importance to the Group. It is recalled held on June 14 and 15, 2017. that six Board meetings were held in 2016 and the average The directors also attended the “Rencontres” gathering, a attendance rate was 93%. two-yearly event bringing together, over three days, 500 of the The following table presents individual attendance rates at Group's key managers and emerging talent. meetings of the Board of Directors and the Specialized In addition, the Board held four executive sessions chaired by Committees on which the directors sit. These rates do not take the Lead Independent Director, without the presence of the account of participation at the “Rencontres gathering, which Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. These sessions focused on the majority of directors attended. the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s compensation and preparing changes in the Group’s governance. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 67 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Number of meetings of the Board of Directors and its committees in 2017 and individual attendance rates Board of Ethics & Governance Strategy & Investment Audit & Risk Compensation Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 10 6 4 8 5 Average attendance rate 95% 100% 100% 86% 92% Individual director attendance rates Ethics & Governance Strategy & Investment Audit & Risk Compensation Board of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of Name meetings % meetings % meetings % meetings % meetings % Paul HERMELIN 10 100% 4 100% Daniel BERNARD 10 100% 6 100% 4 100% Anne BOUVEROT 9 90% 4 100% Yann DELABRIÈRE (1) 9 90% 3/4 75% Laurence DORS (2) 10 100% 6 100% 7 88% 4/4 100% Carole FERRAND 10 100% 8 100% Robert FRETEL 10 100% 4 100% Siân HERBERT-JONES 10 100% 8 100% Phil LASKAWY 7 70% 4 50% Kevin MASTERS 10 100% 5 100% Xavier MUSCA 9 90% 8 100% Patrick POUYANNE (3) 6/7 86% 2/2 100% Pierre PRINGUET 9 90% 6 100% 3 60% Bruno ROGER 10 100% 6 100% 4 100% Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 10 100% 5 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 10 100% 4 100% 5 100% (1) Mr. Delabrière stepped down from the Audit & Risk Committee on May 10, 2017. (2) Ms. Laurence Dors joined the Compensation Committee on May 10, 2017. (3) Mr. Patrick Pouyanné was appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 and joined the Strategy & Investment Committee on September 1, 2017. Organization and preparation The Notice of Meeting, sent to directors two weeks before the Documents relating to the Board of Directors as well as the meeting date, contains the agenda set after the Chairman and above-mentioned information are communicated by a secure Chief Executive Officer has consulted with the Lead Independent platform accessible solely by Board members using an individual Director and any directors who proposed specific points to be password. This platform is hosted on a server located in France. discussed by the Board. In 2015, this platform, which is used for Board of Directors' and Committee meetings, was reviewed and modernized in response In accordance with the Board of Directors' Charter, preparatory to wishes expressed by directors during the 2014 Board documentation is sent to directors a week before the meeting. assessment, to make it more mobile, accessible from any location Directors are also sent or handed a summary report comparing and even more secure. the share price of the Capgemini SE share to that of various general and sector indexes and to its main competitors, as well as the last known consensus. In addition, important press releases (signature of major contracts, alliances, etc.) issued by the Company together with financial analysts' studies of Capgemini or the sector are regularly brought to the attention of directors. 68 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Activities of the Board in 2017 The agenda of Board of Directors' meetings is defined not only pursuant to prevailing texts and to the Board of Directors' to provide directors with an overview of the Group's position, Charter, presuppose that Board members will make decisions on but also with regard to Group governance principles, which, specific topics. 2 Group strategy Group performance Corporate and organization and activities governance • Review of major market trends and • Group performance and activities • Board and committees’ technology disruptions • Active management of the Group’s composition evolution • Strategic priorities and ambitions in Digital balance sheet and liquid assets • General Meeting preparation • Alignment of the Group’s transformation • Conversion into a European Company with its business ambitions • Board assessment • External growth opportunities and • Monitoring of dialogue with transactions shareholders and proxy advisors • New CSR policy Management transition Compensation Audit & risks • Compensation of the Chairman • 2016 statutory accounts Mr. Paul Hermelin announced and CEO • 2016 full-year and 2017 H1 his intention to solicit his renewal as • Compensation of the newly consolidated ﬁnancial statements Chairman and CEO in the context of the appointed COOs • Risk monitoring 2018 General Meeting, with a view to • Performance shares and (including risk mapping) preparing to transition out of this role share grants • Internal control and internal audit as CEO around mid-term. • New employee share-ownership plan • Review of internal and external talents • Appointment of two Chief Operating Oﬃcers from January 1, 2018 • Monitoring of the management transition Accordingly, in addition to approving the 2016 annual financial the strategic challenges facing the Group over a two-day statements and the financial statements for the first-half of 2017 period. These activities focused particularly on: and convening the Shareholders' Meeting of May 10, 2017, the ❚ major technology trends and notably Digital Manufacturing, activities of the Board of Directors focused on: digital platforms and automation technologies, ❚ the Group’s digital strategy and goals, 1. Group strategy, performance and organization  the Board was involved in the preparation of the “Rencontres” ❚ the transformation of the Group with the implementation gathering in Geneva in October 2017 (“Rencontres” gathering: of an organizational structure adapted to the Group’s two-yearly event bringing together, over three days, around strategic goals. 500 of the Group’s key managers and emerging talent) and, in particular, discussions on the transformation of the Group 2. Governance and management transition based on its strategic priorities and the implementation of a  changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and its new organization; Specialized Committees, notably with the renewal of three  monitoring of Group performance and activities; terms of office and the appointment of a new director by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 2017, a change in the Lead  review and monitoring of the different external growth Independent Director at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting opportunities and decision-making for matters under its with Mr. Pierre Pringuet replacing Mr. Daniel Bernard and the authority; appointment of Ms. Laurence Dors as Chairman of the  during the annual strategy seminar in June, the Board of Compensation Committee and Mr. Bernard as Vice-Chairman Directors was informed of and debated the different market of the Board; trends, changes in the Group’s competitive environment and REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 69 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors  discussion of future changes in the Group’s governance and 5. Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility preparation of Capgemini’s management transition with the  review of the Group’s new Corporate Social Responsibility appointment of two Chief Operating Officers, Mr. Paul strategy focused on three key areas (see Section 3.1). The Hermelin having indicated his wish to seek a final term of Board wishes an annual presentation of the Group’s strategy office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the 2018 in this area. Combined Shareholders’ Meeting in order to organize the Group Management transition (executive session during the 6. Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Board of Directors’ meeting of August 31, 2017); in this Officer and long-term compensation of employees context and based on the recommendations of the Ethics & Governance Committee and the work of the Vice-Chairman of  in February 2017, the setting of the Chairman and Chief the Board, the Board of Directors reviewed the Group’s key Executive Officer’s compensation for 2016 and the talents and external candidates with the assistance of an assessment of the attainment of 2016 variable compensation independent consultant, worked on the Group Management objectives and the setting of his fixed compensation and succession plan and implemented a management transition objectives for 2017 (executive session during the Board monitoring system; meeting of February 15, 2017);  completion of the transformation of the Company’s legal  in December 2017, an initial assessment of the attainment by form to a European company, launched at the end of 2016 the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of his 2017 and approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of objectives with a view to setting his 2017 variable May 10, 2017; compensation by the Board of Directors' meeting of February 14, 2018 (executive session during the Board  monitoring of dialogue between the Company and its meeting of December 6, 2017); shareholders and proxy advisors in preparing the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and feedback on meetings between  the setting of the compensation of the Chief Operating the Lead Independent Director and several institutional Officers with effect from January 1, 2018 (date of entry into investors to present Capgemini’s governance principles; office) and authorization, in principle, of termination benefits in the event of cessation of their duties as Chief Operating  assessment of the Board of Directors’ activities in 2017, based Officer and of a non-compete commitment; on an internal assessment launched in the fourth quarter of 2017 by the Lead Independent Director.  exceptional grant of free shares to certain employees of IDEAN group, acquired in January 2017; 3. Risk monitoring  grant of performance shares to 1,297 Group managers,  monitoring of the Group’s major risks, notably through a including Mr. Paul Hermelin (executive session during the review of the Group’s most recent risk mapping updated in Board meeting of October 5, 2017); 2016, and the Group’s risk management system, during the  authorization to carry out a share capital increase reserved for annual review introduced by the overhaul of the Audit employees under the Group’s 4th employee share ownership Committee’s duties at the end of 2016 (renamed the Audit & plan (ESOP 2017), involving a maximum issue of 3,600,000 Risk Committee accordingly). shares. 4. Active management of the Group's balance sheet Financial authorizations and liquid assets A summary table of current delegations of authority granted by  authorization of a new maximum share buyback amount of Shareholders’ Meetings to the Board of Directors to perform 3,600,000 shares and €400 million, with a view to their share capital increases and detailing utilizations of these cancellation to neutralize the dilutive impact of the share delegation in 2017, is presented in Section 5.1.2 of this capital increase under the 4th employee share ownership plan Registration Document. (ESOP 2017);  cancellation of 4,265,838 treasury shares purchased under the share buyback agreement implemented to neutralize the dilutive impact of the ESOP 2017 employee share ownership plan and the multi-year share buy-back program. 2.2.3 Assessment of the Board of Directors The Lead Independent Director conducted an assessment of the external service provider under the responsibility of the Lead Board of Directors’ activities in 2017. The results of this Independent Director and was presented in detail in the 2016 assessment are presented below. Registration Document. Furthermore, in accordance with the three-year frequency The following priorities were identified: recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, a formal assessment of  Ongoing training for directors the activities of the Board of Directors and its Specialized Committees was performed at the end of 2016 with the assistance ❚ Extend knowledge of the Group, its businesses and its of an external service provider. The conclusions of this assessment competitive environment, including through sessions with led to the implementation of specific action plans in 2017. external advisors.  Strategy monitoring 2016 assessment: conclusions and actions ❚ Further explain potential acquisitions in light of the Group’s implemented in 2017 strategic plans. A formal assessment of the activities of the Board of Directors and its Specialized Committees in 2016 was conducted by an 70 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors ❚ Further improve the coordination of the work of the The Lead Independent Director also met individually with each Strategy & Investment Committee and the Board by member of the Board of Directors. enriching the Committee’s report to the Board and setting These procedures showed that the changes introduced following the agenda of the Board accordingly. the previous external assessment were considered an  Risk monitoring improvement and appreciated by directors. Directors expressed ❚ Annual risks review by the Board and implementation of their satisfaction with the content of meeting agendas and the strengthened risk monitoring as planned following the organization and operating conditions of the Board and its overhaul of the Charter of the Audit Committee at the end Committees in general, requesting nonetheless a more rigorous 2 of 2016 (renamed the Audit & Risk Committee as a result). and long-term meeting schedule. The coordination of work between the Board and the Committees was also examined and it  Talents was largely considered that the respective roles of the Board and ❚ Regular information on progress made in relation to talent the Committees were clear and appropriate. However, management and particularly with respect to mobility. observations were made on the coordination of work between  Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility the Strategy & Investment Committee and the Board of Directors. ❚ Regular briefings on initiatives and the results of the Finally, supervision of the management transition launched at Group’s CSR policy. the end of 2016 and forward-planning in the coming years regarding the Board’s composition, were identified as key As a result of this assessment, the following changes were made activities of the Board of Directors. in 2017 to the operation of the Board and its Specialized Committees: The directors identified the following priorities for 2018:  the Board organized a range of specific training sessions  Management transition as part of the executive throughout 2017 to enable directors increase their management succession plan knowledge of the Group (through presentations of its ❚ Reiteration by the Board that this constitutes its main ecosystem, challenges, businesses and certain of its regions) priority for the coming two years, and consequently that of and its competitive environment, as well as recent market the Ethics and Governance Committee; disruption trends and technological developments; ❚ Confirmation of the specific assignment entrusted to the  regular strategy updates were presented to Board of Vice-Chairman of the Board, Mr. Daniel Bernard, working Directors’ meetings by the Chairman of the Strategy & with an ad hoc committee made up, in addition to himself, Investment Committee throughout the year; of Mr. Bruno Roger (Chairman of the Strategy and  Audit & Risk Committee monitoring of the Group’s major risks Investment Committee) and Mr. Pierre Pringuet (Chairman was strengthened during the year and notably included a of the Ethics and Governance Committee) and in charge of review of the risk mapping. A detailed report was presented closely monitoring the management transition phase. on these activities to the Board of Directors;  Composition of the Board of Directors  the Board of Directors reviewed the Group’s key talents as ❚ Implementation of a four-year plan (2018-2022) integrating part of management transition preparations; the following objectives: (i) international diversification to  an annual update presented the Group’s new corporate, social reflect changes in Capgemini’s geographic spread and and environmental responsibility strategy. businesses, (ii) diversification of profiles and expertise, (iii) staggered renewal of terms of office and (iv) maintenance 2017 Assessment: conclusions and priorities of a measured number of directors enabling coherence and collective decision-making. for 2018  Coordination of work between the Strategy & Investment The Lead Independent Director's internal assessment of Committee and the Board performance in 2017 focused particularly on the composition of the Board of Directors, its activities and the individual ❚ Better coordination of work between the Strategy & contribution of directors. Investment Committee and the Board, with notably more systematic formal reports by the Committee to Board A questionnaire was sent to all directors at the end of 2017. This meetings and regular and in-depth presentations of the questionnaire covered both the composition and activities of the Group’s strategy during Board meetings. Board of Directors and the activities of the Specialized Committees on which they sit. In addition, it offered the  Preparation of Board and Committee meetings opportunity to take stock of actions implemented following the ❚ Themed-based scheduling of meetings and more systematic 2016 external assessment. forward-planning over at least 12 months of schedules and notably events organized alongside Board meetings (training sessions, diners, etc.). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 71 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.2.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees The Audit & Risk Committee monitoring duties, the Committee must now review the major risks to which the Group may be exposed at least once annually, in particular through a review of the risk mapping prepared by the Group Management Risk Committee. Audit & Finally, the Committee is responsible for monitoring the Risk Committee statutory audit of the annual and half-yearly consolidated financial statements of the Group and the annual accounts of the 5 Company, ensuring the independence of the Statutory Auditors 86% 80% 8 and generally monitoring the conduct of their engagements. Attendance Members Independence Meetings Where it considers it useful or necessary, the Audit & Risk Committee may be assisted by experts appointed for this NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. purpose. Composition and participation The Committee has five directors since May 10, 2017: Mr. Xavier Committee duties Musca (Chairman and Independent Director), Ms. Laurence The duties of the Audit Committee were changed on Dors (Independent Director), Ms. Carole Ferrand (Independent December 7, 2016 to strengthen risk management and include Director), Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones (Independent Director) and the impacts of the European statutory audit reform. The Mr. Phil Laskawy. Committee name was also changed to the Audit & Risk Committee. As announced in December 2016 when the chair of the Audit & Risk Committee was handed to Mr. Musca, Mr. Yann Delabrière These changes in the Committee's duties followed the concerns indicated his wish to step down from the Audit & Risk Committee expressed by directors during the assessment of the Board’s after a transitional period; he was therefore a member of the activities in 2015 to improve risk monitoring by associating the Audit & Risk Committee until May 10, 2017. Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. Through their professional careers, Audit & Risk Committee In accordance with Article L.823-19 of the French Commercial members have amassed the necessary accounting and financial Code, the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) expertise to perform their duties. Mr. Xavier Musca acquired recommendation of July 22, 2010 and best market practice, the considerable expertise in the French and international financial duties of the Audit & Risk Committee fall into three categories. and banking sectors throughout his career in the French civil Firstly, the Audit & Risk Committee monitors issues concerning service, ministerial offices and the private sector. Mr. Yann the preparation and control of financial and accounting Delabrière was Chief Financial Officer of PSA Peugeot Citroën information. It monitors the financial information preparation from 1990 to 2007, Ms. Carole Ferrand was Chief Financial process and, where applicable, suggests recommendations to Officer of Sony France from 2000 to 2011 and then of guarantee its integrity. It examines the draft annual and Europacorp Group in 2011 and 2012, Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones was half-yearly consolidated financial statements of the Group, the Chief Financial Officer of Sodexo from 2001 to 2016 and Mr. Phil annual accounts of Capgemini SE and the management Laskawy was Chief Executive Officer of Ernst & Young from 1994 presentation of risk exposure and material off-balance sheet to 2001. Finally, Ms. Laurence Dors' career in executive commitments of the Company, as well as the accounting options management positions and the Economy and Finance Ministry adopted. allows her to contribute both financial expertise and a Secondly, the Audit & Risk Committee ensures the existence and transversal view of organizations. efficiency of internal control systems, internal audit and the The Committee met eight times in 2017, with an average management of major risks to which the Group is exposed in the attendance rate of 86%. course of its business. Following the strengthening of these risk The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Audit & Risk Committee was as follows: Xavier MUSCA (Chairman) 100% Yann DELABRIÈRE* 75% Laurence DORS 88% Carole FERRAND 100% Siân HERBERT-JONES 100% Phil LASKAWY 50% (*) Mr. Delabrière stepped down from Audit & Risk Committee on May 10, 2017. He attended three of the four committee meetings held during the period. 72 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Committee activities in 2017 The Compensation Committee The Committee reviewed the annual accounts of Capgemini SE and consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2016 and the half-year ended June 30, 2017. Compensation Committee It focused in particular on the accounting treatment of events with a material impact on the annual or half-year financial 5 statements. 92% 100%(1) 5 2 It notably reviewed the valuation of goodwill (including the Attendance Members Independence Meetings calculation of the cost of capital and long-term growth rates) and deferred tax assets. It also reviewed changes in research tax credits in France, procedures for the recognition of provisions on NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. (1) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into complex contracts and immigration and tax developments in the account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the provisions United States. of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The Committee also monitored changes in the situation in Brazil and of the Group in India. As part of its risk management supervisory activities, the Audit & Committee duties Risk Committee reviewed the new structure implemented by On October 8, 2014, the Selection & Compensation Committee Group Management and issued a highly favorable opinion. It was changed its name to the “Compensation Committee” and now informed during the year of risk monitoring issues, including concentrates exclusively on setting the compensation of cyber security issues. executive corporate officers and defining compensation policies In this context, the Committee interviewed: for Group executives. This committee has several duties set out in its Charter recently amended by the Board of Directors on  Mr. Philippe Christelle, Internal Audit Director, questioning June 17, 2015. Firstly, it must present proposals to the Board of him on working methods, planning, areas of intervention and Directors on the fixed and variable compensation of executive the findings of audits carried out during the year; corporate officers and, with regards to the variable portion and  Mr. André Cichowlas, Delivery Director (Production/Methods where appropriate, propose a detailed list of individual and Support) and Support Services, questioning him in objectives (quantitative and qualitative), enabling an assessment particular on the impact on the operating accounts of major of performance and the calculation of the variable compensation contracts that are separately monitored and the development component(s). To this end, the Committee meets in the final and roll-out of shared access and industrial procedures; quarter of each year (Y) to propose to the Board of Directors executive corporate officer objectives for the following year  finally Mr. Jean-Baptiste Massignon, Group General (Y+1) and at least once at the beginning of Y+1 to prepare the Secretary also in charge of pre-sales risk management, assessment by the Board of Directors of performance in the questioning him on the activities of the Group Review Board previous year. The Committee reviews the information during the period and the terms and conditions of major presented to shareholders for the vote on executive corporate commercial proposals. officer compensation (so-called “Say on Pay”) and is consulted on The Statutory Auditors reported to the Board on the quality of financial terms and conditions in the event of the appointment the accounting monitoring of projects and the good control of or departure of an executive corporate officer. the accounts closing process. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 73 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Compensation Committee must be informed of the Composition and participation compensation policies adopted by Capgemini Group companies This Committee has five directors since May 10, 2017, the date at in the management of senior executive careers and the which Ms. Laurence Dors joined the Committee and became application of these policies with respect to the Group's medium Chairman. Mr. Pierre Pringuet, Committee Chairman until this and long-term strategy presented to the Board of Directors. The date, remained a member of the Committee after May 10, 2017. Committee must also be informed annually by Group Management of the (fixed and variable) compensation of Committee members since May 10, 2017 are therefore: Ms. Executive Committee members. Laurence Dors (Chairman and Independent Director), Mr. Pierre Pringuet (Independent Director), Mr. Kevin Masters Finally, the Committee reviews the various schemes enabling (Director representing employees), Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas senior executives to better share in the Group's profits (long(Director representing employee shareholders) and Ms. Caroline term incentive instruments and particularly performance share Watteeuw-Carlisle (Independent Director). grants, Group savings schemes, etc.) and proposes to the Board of Directors the incentive instruments it considers appropriate This committee met five times in 2017, with an average and capable of being implemented in all (or certain) Capgemini attendance rate of 92%. Group companies. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Compensation Committee was as follows: Laurence DORS (Chairman and member since May 10, 2017)* 100% Pierre PRINGUET (Chairman until May 10, 2017) 60% Kevin MASTERS 100% Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 100% (*) Ms. Dors joined the Compensation Committee on May 10, 2017 and was appointed Chairman. She attended the four Compensation Committee meetings held after this date. Committee activities in 2017 In accordance with the Committee's remit, it ensured throughout The Committee studied the principle and means of granting 2017 the consistency of the Group's senior executive management shares subject to a condition of presence to certain managers of compensation policy. Its Chairman regularly reported on the Idean acquired at the beginning of 2017. It drafted and Committee's work and presented recommendations to the Board communicated a list of beneficiaries and the proposed individual of Directors concerning the following areas: allocation of these shares subject to a condition of presence to the Board of Directors for agreement on July 26, 2017. The  the consistency of the general compensation policy of the Committee also studied the principle and means of granting Group and its subsidiaries; performance shares to certain managers. It drafted and  the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive communicated a list of beneficiaries and the proposed individual Officer and that of members of the Executive Committee and allocation of these performance shares to the Board of Directors the Group's key managers. These recommendations focused for agreement on October 5, 2017. In addition, the Committee at the beginning of the year on: monitored the Group employee share ownership plans. ❚ an appraisal of the individual performance of each of these It also conducted a detailed analysis of the compensation policy managers compared with objectives set at the beginning of for the newly-appointed Chief Operating Officers. It met several the year, times to define the existing practices of the Company and to ❚ calculation of the variable portion of compensation paid in decide the specific components proposed in the compensation the first quarter of the next year, policy to be presented to shareholders’ vote in May 2018 ❚ adjustment of the fixed compensation and theoretical pursuant to the Sapin II Law. variable portion for the following year, ❚ setting objectives to be used for the current year as a basis for defining the calculation of the actual variable portions due. 74 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Ethics & Governance Committee annual independence review and compensation of the Company's directors. It draws the attention of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has identified between a director and the Company or Ethics & Governance its Group or between directors. It must be ready to implement Committee the measures necessary should the need to replace the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer suddenly arises. It must handle and 4 propose to the Board any changes it considers appropriate or 100% 50% 6 relevant to the Board's operation and composition (co-opting a 2 new director or replacing a resigning director, increasing the Attendance Members Independence Meetings proportion of female directors, diversity of profiles and expertise of directors, etc.) or to the governance structure currently in NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. place within the Group. The Committee is briefed on succession plans for key operating and functional managers of the Group. It is also informed of the policy for the identification, development and retention of high potential executives. The Chairman and Committee duties Chief Executive Officer is involved in this work. The Committee Since October 8, 2014, the roles of the Ethics & Governance must be consulted by Group Management prior to any Committee now include not only executive corporate officer appointment to the Executive Committee. selection and succession plans and the proposal of new directors to ensure the balanced composition of the Board but also Group Composition and participation senior executive selection and succession plans. The Committee has four directors. Since May 10, 2017, the The main remit of this committee (created in July 2006 by Committee is chaired by Mr. Pierre Pringuet (Independent decision of the Board) is to verify that the Group's seven core Director and Lead Independent Director). The other Committee values (Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, Modesty members are Ms. Laurence Dors (Independent Director), and Fun) are correctly applied and adhered to, defended and Mr. Daniel Bernard (Vice-Chairman) and Mr. Bruno Roger. promoted by the Group's corporate officers, senior management Mr. Daniel Bernard was committee Chairman until May 10, 2017 and employees in all of its businesses and in all subsidiaries under when Mr. Pierre Pringuet succeeded him as Lead Independent its control, in all internal and external communications including Director and Chairman of this committee. It is recalled that the advertising and in all other acts undertaken in the Group's Charter of the Board of Directors provides that the duties of name. Lead Independent Director be conferred by the Board on the It is also tasked more generally with overseeing the application Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee. of best corporate governance practice within Capgemini SE and This committee met six times in 2017, with an average its subsidiaries. The Ethics & Governance Committee is attendance rate of 100%. responsible for all matters relating to the selection, appraisal, The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows: Pierre PRINGUET (Chairman since May 10, 2017) 100% Daniel BERNARD (Chairman until May 10, 2017) 100% Laurence DORS 100% Bruno ROGER 100% Committee activities in 2017 Executive Officer in preparing future changes in the Group’s The activities of the Ethics & Governance Committee focused on governance; the following issues in 2017:  monitored the dialogue between the Company and its shareholders and proxy advisors in preparation of the 2017 Governance Shareholders’ Meeting and prepared the governance issues The Ethics & Governance Committee: presented to the Board and then to the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 (in addition to issues concerning the  recommended the candidacy of Mr. Pouyanné to the Board of composition of the Board referred to above), notably with Directors and the renewal of the terms of office as director of respect to the transformation of the Company’s legal form to Ms. Bouverot and Messrs. Bernard and Pringuet, in a European company and changes to the bylaws concerning preparation of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017; the corporate name and threshold crossing disclosures;  proposed the appointment by the Board of Directors at the  was briefed on the meetings between the Lead Independent end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 of Director and several institutional investors to present Mr. Pringuet as Lead Independent Director and Chairman of Capgemini’s governance principles; the Ethics & Governance Committee and of Ms. Dors as  debated several times the changes in and composition of the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and Mr. Bernard Specialized Board Committees; as Vice-Chairman to work closely with the Chairman and Chief REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 75 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors  debated at the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018 a  in the first section, a presentation of the three Ethics & reduction in attendance fees payable in respect of 2017 so as Compliance activities (training, communication and processing not to exceed the maximum amount authorized by the whistleblower alerts). The report highlighted the significant Shareholders’ Meeting. This overrun was mainly due to the efforts of the Group to raise-awareness and to provide number of exceptional Board and Committee meetings held e-learning courses. It also noted that Capgemini has been during the period; recognized as “One of the World's Most Ethical Companies”  under the auspices of its Chairman, the Lead Independent for the fifth year running by the American Institute, Director, was briefed on and discussed the annual assessment Ethisphere, confirming the high quality of the Group’s ethical of the composition and activities of the Board and its responsibility culture towards all its stakeholders. Finally, it Specialized Committees performed at the beginning of 2018 provided an update on the strengthening of the Board’s in respect of 2017; ethical position and the Group’s whistle-blowing procedure that will be implemented in 2018 and the planned update and  deliberated the independence of directors and the absence of distribution of the Blue Book; conflicts of interest in preparation of the Registration Document;  in the second section of the report, an audit report concluding that the ethical framework within which the Group has  was briefed on the conclusions and observations of the High decided to operate, is, overall, correctly understood and Committee for Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de followed throughout the Group. The report contains Gouvernement d'Entreprise, HCGE) presented in its 2017 recommendations following the work carried out in 2017 to activity report and of the French Financial Markets Authority help further improve compliance with the Group’s ethical (AMF) presented in its 2017 report on corporate governance rules and principles. and executive management compensation in listed companies; The Strategy & Investment Committee  reviewed the governance section of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code;  launched a debate on the composition of the Board and its Strategy & Specialized Committees in preparation of the Shareholders’ Investment Committee Meeting of May 23, 2018. 7 Management transition Succession 100% 50%(1) 4 The Ethics & Governance Committee was closely involved in the Attendance Members Independence Meetings Board’s discussions on future changes in the Group’s governance and preparing Capgemini’s management transition with the NB: all ﬁgures are up to date as of December 31, 2017. appointment of two Chief Operating Officers, Mr. Paul Hermelin (1) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into having indicated his wish to seek a final term of office as account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the provisions Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the 2018 Shareholders’ of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Meeting in order to organize the Group Management transition. The Committee drew on the work of the Vice-Chairman of the Board, conducted together with the Lead Independent Director Committee duties and the most senior member of the Board, Mr. Roger, and The role of this committee is to: involving an assessment of the Group’s key managers and a review of external candidates, based on an assignment  study in-depth the strategic options open to the Group to conducted by an independent consultant and individual ensure its continued growth, improve its profitability and meetings. maintain its independence to enrich Board discussions; The appointment of two Chief Operating Officers was proposed  determine the amount of investment required to implement to the Board of Directors with effect from January 1, 2018 and each of these possible strategies; for a transition period. Messrs Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat  identify and assess the alliances or acquisitions which would were recommended for the positions. The implementation of a appear able to facilitate or accelerate the implementation of management transition monitoring system under the authority these strategies; of the Vice-Chairman of the Board was also proposed to the  finally, recommend a choice to the Board of Directors, by Board of Directors. presenting an opinion and/or recommendations (or at least It deliberated the Group Management succession plan and establish an order of priority). ensured that its Chairman was ready to implement the measures More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates on any necessary should the need to replace the Chairman and Chief direction or issue considered relevant to the Group's future, Executive Officer arise suddenly. provided it does not compromise the smooth running of operations and guarantees operating and financial stability. Ethics The Ethics & Governance Committee interviewed the Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Director (Mr. Philippe Christelle), these two functions being held by the same person since September 2015. Mr. Philippe Christelle submitted his report to the Committee presenting: 76 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Composition and participation Up to September 1, 2017 this committee had six directors: It currently has seven directors. Mr. Patrick Pouyanné joined Mr. Bruno Roger, Chairman, Messrs. Daniel Bernard, Robert the Strategy & Investment Committee on September 1, 2017 Fretel and Paul Hermelin, Ms. Anne Bouverot (Independent following his appointment by the Shareholders’ Meeting of Director) and Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle (Independent May 10, 2017. Director). The Committee met four times in 2017, with an average attendance rate of 100%. 2 The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows: Bruno ROGER (Chairman) 100% Paul HERMELIN 100% Daniel BERNARD 100% Anne BOUVEROT 100% Robert FRETEL 100% Patrick POUYANNÉ* 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 100% (*) Mr. Pouyanné joined the Board of Directors on September 1, 2017 and attended the two Strategy & Investment Committee meetings held after this date. Committee activities in 2017 In 2017, the Committee continued to concentrate on in-depth circumstances, their organizational impacts and the recording of reviews of external growth opportunities, focusing in particular these components in an internal mobilization document setting on strengthening the Group's Digital and Cloud service offerings, out 5-year goals. prior to their presentation to the Board of Directors. The conclusions of all these activities were reflected in the It also prepared the Board’s strategy seminar, which was held in presentations to the 26th “Rencontres” gathering a two-yearly London this year in mid-June. As per usual, the main debate was event to mobilize Group managers – held in Geneva from launched by a presentation of major market discontinuities and October 11 to 14, 2017 focused on the strategic priorities to be considered in these REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 77 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.2.5 Director compensation Total attendance fees In compensation for their participation in Board and Committee Board or Committee meeting for directors residing outside meetings, the Company was authorized by the Combined Europe and of €2,000 for directors residing in Europe but Shareholders' Meeting of May 18, 2016 to pay attendance fees outside France. This additional attendance fee is not allocated to to directors of up to €1,200,000 per year. directors representing employees, whose travel costs are covered otherwise. The authorization given by the Shareholders Meeting of May 18, 2016 to increase the total maximum amount of attendance fees Attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end of the enabled the strategic objectives set by the Board of Directors to first six months and at the end of the year. be attained. This increase in the total amount of attendance fees These amounts can be reduced if circumstances require the allowed the Board to continue the renewal of its composition, Company to hold a greater than scheduled number of meetings, welcoming four new directors in 2016 including two directors resulting in aggregate attendance fees exceeding the threshold representing employees, while focusing the increase both on authorized by the Shareholders' Meeting if these “rates” are directors not residing in France and on those heavily involved in maintained. This was the case for attendance fees due to the work of the committees (as Chairmen or members of several directors in respect of 2017, as the number of exceptional committees), while retaining the international outlook of the meetings during the year notably contributed to increasing the Board consistent with the international development and global total amount, before reduction, to €1,222,250. presence of the Group. Attendance fees calculated and paid to directors in respect of fiscal year 2017 after reduction totaled €1,199,990, representing Attendance fees allocation rules 100% of the ceiling authorized by the Shareholders' Meeting. Attendance fees include for each director a fixed portion of €15,000, and an amount of €4,000 for each attendance at a It is recalled that Mr. Paul Hermelin voluntary waived his right to Board meeting. collect attendance fees as a director of Capgemini SE in respect of 2017 (as he has done for the last eight years). Attendance fees for the Specialized Board Committees were set with regard to the specific role of each committee and the ongoing work required of Chairmen, who now receive exclusively Other compensation a fixed annual payment of €45,000 for the Lead Independent A breakdown of compensation paid in respect of fiscal year 2017 Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, to the executive corporate officer, Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman €35,000 for the Chairman of the Audit & Risks Committee and and Chief Executive Officer, is presented in section 2.4.2. €25,000 for the Chairmen of the Compensation Committee and Mr. Paul Hermelin's 2018 compensation is presented on page 88 the Strategy & Investment Committee. of this Registration Document. A fixed annual fee of €45,000 was allotted to the Vice-Chairman. A breakdown of attendance fees and other compensation paid to directors in respect of 2017 is presented in the section The members of the committees receive fees of €2,500 for each entitled “Attendance fees and other compensation received by attendance at a meeting. corporate officers” on page 98. It was also decided to take account of the travel time of directors by awarding them additional attendance fees of €5,000 per 78 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group 2.3 General organization of the Group 2.3.1 Operational structure The operational structure of the Group combines the key ❚ Business Services, grouping together BPO (Business Process principles that have guided its development since its creation: Outsourcing), operating solutions, inherited primarily from 2 IGATE and Prosodie, which operates the customer  the first principle, decentralization of the operating conduct relationship platforms, of business, seeks to ensure that operating managers act as entrepreneurs, committing to a budget and personal and ❚ Sogeti, present in around fifteen countries, which brings to collective objectives, the attainment of which decides their the Group’s clients its network, infrastructure and local variable compensation; services experience and all of its technology services offer, particularly security related,  the second principle is the collective ambition to lead the markets in which the Group operates and to develop ❚ Financial Services, which develops and promotes Group internationally to serve its clients and partners. The Company offers dedicated to financial services and manages the must therefore set operating managers ambitious commercial business activities of clients in this sector, in close and financial performance objectives and provide them with coordination with all other entities; the necessary means to react rapidly to market requirements,  two systems integration and applicative maintenance to provide consistent responses to changes in demand and to Strategic Business Units (Application Services) in the following implement the new opportunities offered by particularly rapid regions and countries: and abundant technological innovation; ❚ AppsOne: North America and the Asia-Pacific region,  the third principle is financial performance, which enables ❚ AppsTwo: Continental Europe and the United Kingdom (1); external growth and development, ensuring the independence of the Group.  the Group’s operations in Latin America (including the joint The Group’s organizational structure combining these principles venture in Brazil), which primarily offer clients Application was implemented from January 1, 2016. It is in effect at the date Services and Infrastructure Services expertise. of publication of this Registration Document, although an These Strategic Business Units operate through the legal entities approach launched by the Group in October 2017 aims to better comprising the Group and present in around 40 countries, which respond to client needs, irrespective of the offerings presented. are in turn grouped into eight geographic areas (2), useful for reporting purposes and comparing performance year-on-year: The current structure comprises Basic Business Units (BUs) of a size that allows their managers to remain in close contact with  North America; their clients and technology partners, to know their employees  the United Kingdom and Ireland; well and to tightly manage the projects they entrust to them.  France; These basic units are grouped by business covering a given  the rest of Europe, comprising Germany and Central European market corresponding to either a geographic area or a sector or countries, Benelux, Nordic countries and Southern Europe; offering, known as “Strategic Businesses Units”, “domains” or “practices”. This grouping by business ensures compliance with  and finally the Asia-Pacific and Latin America (LatAm) region. specific business models, the sharing of experience and the This organization by business and geographic area is industrialization of distributed delivery processes and methods accompanied by a light transversal structure carrying specific responding efficiently and consistently to the demands of offerings. For example, in Digital transformation, three offerings international clients. are proposed focusing on the customer relationship, Big Data There are currently eight Strategic Business Units (SBUs): and data analytics, respectively, while in industrial Digital, offerings focus on the Digital Customer Experience, Insights &  five global Strategic Business Units: Data and Digital Manufacturing. An identical approach was ❚ Consulting Services, under the Capgemini Consulting adopted to stimulate Group efforts in Cloud and IT security tradename, comprising strategy and Digital transformation services. consulting expertise and innovation creative design expertise also provided by the IDEAN and F 212 entities, ❚ Cloud Infrastructure Services, i.e., the design, installation and maintenance of client IT infrastructures, whether based on own tools (data center) or the use of public or partially privatized capacities (Cloud), (1) Since January 1, 2018, Application Services in the United Kingdom are included in the AppsTwo Business Unit (and no longer the AppsOne Business Unit) (2) See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 79 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group 2.3.2 Group Management Group Management General Management Group Executive Board Group Executive Committee Comprises the Chief Executive Oﬃcer Deﬁnes the broad strategies and actions Structures and follows the implementation and the two Chief Operating Oﬃcers. to be submitted to the Group Executive of strategies concerning the Group’s operating Committee for approval and ensures their structure, the choice of priorities, production implementation by the major business units. rules and organization. Group Management at January 1, 2018 Capgemini SE Group Management is led by Mr. Paul Hermelin, the operating accounts and the commercial management of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, assisted since January 1, clients. At the date of this Registration Document, Mr. Ezzat also 2018, by two Chief Operating Officers, Messrs. Delaporte and continues in his position as Chief Financial Officer. Together, the Ezzat. Mr. Delaporte has specific responsibility for steering the three of them form the Office of the CEO, ensuring the coherent offerings, industrial expertise, innovation and the Indian management of the Company. platform, while Mr. Ezzat has specific responsibility for steering PAUL HERMELIN Chairman and Chief Executive Officer BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Paul Hermelin, born on April 30, 1952, is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École Nationale d’Administration. He spent the first fifteen years of his professional life in the French government, primarily in the Ministry of Finance. He held a number of positions in the Budget Office and on various ministry staffs, including that of Finance Minister Jacques Delors. He was chief of staff to the Minister of Industry and Foreign Trade, from 1991 to 1993. Mr. Paul Hermelin joined the Capgemini Group in May 1993, where he was first in charge of coordinating central functions. In May 1996, he was appointed member of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini France. In May 2000, following the merger of Capgemini and Ernst & Young Consulting, he became Chief Operating Officer of the Group and director. On January 1, 2002, he became Chief Executive Officer of the Capgemini Group, followed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 24, 2012. He has been a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 24, 2002. For more detailed information, please refer to the biography published in Section 2.1.3. THIERRY DELAPORTE Chief Operating Officer BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Thierry Delaporte, born on May 28, 1967, is a graduate in Political Sciences from SciencesPo Paris and holds a Masters in Law from the Paris La Sorbonne University. Mr. Thierry Delaporte has been Chief Operating Officer of Capgemini since January 1, 2018. He was Head of Capgemini’s Financial Services Strategic Business Unit from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2017, as well as overseeing Capgemini’s operations in Latin America from January 2016 to December 31, 2017. He is a member of the Group Executive Board. Mr. Thierry Delaporte has spent most of his career with Capgemini. He has driven Capgemini’s operations and strategic planning in several of its key businesses, based in various countries, and has participated in a number of key transformation programs. Mr. Thierry Delaporte was Chief Operating Officer and Head of Sales for Application Services One (UK, Asia Pacific and North America) in 2011 and 2012, Chief Financial Officer for the Global Outsourcing Business Unit (2009-2010), Chief Financial Officer for North America (2005-2008), Chief Financial Officer of Southern Europe (2003-2005), Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for Australia and New Zealand (2002-2003), Chief Financial Officer for the Asia-Pacific Telecom business following the integration of Ernst & Young operations (2000-2002), Chief Financial Officer for Switzerland and Austria (1997-2000). Mr. Thierry Delaporte joined the Capgemini Group in 1995 as Group Internal Auditor. Mr. Thierry Delaporte began his career in 1992 as a Senior Auditor at Arthur Andersen in Paris and London. Mr. Thierry Delaporte is also Co-founder and President of a Non-Profit Organization (Life Project 4 Youth). 80 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group AIMAN EZZAT Chief Operating Officer BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Aiman Ezzat, born on May 22, 1961, holds a MSc (Master of Science) in chemical engineering from École Supérieure de Chimie Physique Électronique de Lyon in France and an MBA from the Anderson School of Management at UCLA. Mr. Aiman Ezzat has been Chief Operating Officer of Capgemini since January 1, 2018. He held the role of Chief Financial Officer at Capgemini since December 2012. He is a member of the Group Executive Board. In March 2017, he was named the “Best European CFO” for the technology and software category in the “2017 All European Executive Team” Institutional Investor’s annual ranking of 2 the region’s top corporate leaders. From December 2008 to 2012, he led the Financial Services Global Business Unit (GBU) after serving as Chief Operating Officer from November 2007. Mr. Aiman Ezzat has also served as Capgemini’s deputy director of Strategy from 2005 to 2007. He played a key role in the development of the Booster turnaround plan of the Group’s activities in the United States, as well as in the development of the Group’s offshore strategy. He was part of the acquisition and integration team of Kanbay, a global IT services firm focused on the financial services industry, acquired by Capgemini in 2006. Before joining Capgemini, from 2000 to 2004, Mr. Aiman Ezzat served as Managing Director of International Operations at Headstrong, a global business and technology consultancy, where he worked with financial services clients in Asia, North America and Europe. Mr. Aiman Ezzat was also previously Global Head of the Oil & Gas and Chemicals practice of Gemini Consulting where he spent 10 years (Gemini Consulting was the former brand of the strategic and transformation consulting arm of the Capgemini Group, now Capgemini Consulting). As far as the Company is aware, no Group Management member  restrictions on the sale by General Management members of has, at any time during the last five years, been found guilty of their investment in the share capital of Capgemini (other than fraud, been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or the obligation to hold preference shares detailed in liquidation, been subject to any form of official public sanction Section 2.4.1). and/or criminal liability or been disqualified by a court from acting as an executive or from participating in the management Management of the Group or conduct of the affairs of any issuer. Group Management is assisted by two bodies comprising the At the date of this Registration Document and as far as the Group’s key operating and functional managers: the Group Company is aware, there are no: Executive Board (GEB) and the Executive Committee.  family ties between the General Management members or The role of the Group Executive Board is to facilitate the carrying between a General Management member and a director of out of the Group’s operations and to take the necessary the Company; measures, notably with regard to the setting of quantitative  potential conflicts of interest among General Management objectives and appointing and assessing the performance of members between their duties to the Company and their executives with a wide range of responsibilities. The GEB defines private interests and/or any other duties; the broad strategies and actions to be submitted to the Executive Committee for approval and ensures their  arrangements or agreements with a shareholder, customer, implementation by the major business units. supplier, or other party pursuant to which a General Management member was selected; At the date of this Registration Document, the GEB comprised the following individuals: Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thierry Delaporte Chief Operating Officer Aiman Ezzat Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer Anirban Bose Financial Services Hubert Giraud People Management and Transformation Patrick Nicolet Chief Technology Officer Olivier Sevillia Application Services Two and Global Accounts management * Application Services Two : United KIngdom, France, Benelux, Nordic Countries, Germany, Central Europe and South Europe. The role of the Executive Committee is to assist Group human resources management. The Executive Committee meets Management define broad strategies concerning the Group’s once a month and comprises, in addition to the Chairman and operating structure, the choice of priority offerings, production Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officers and the rules and organization and the implementation conditions for other GEB members, the following managers. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 81 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group Operating functions:  the Merger & Acquisitions Committee, also chaired by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which examines  the Cloud Infrastructure Services Director; acquisition and divestment projects in the course of  the Consulting and Digital Services Director; identification, selection, assessment or negotiation;  the Business Services Director;  the Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial  the India Operations Director; Officer, which reviews and provides advice with respect to projects requiring investment, including those involving real  the Application Services Director for Asia-Pacific; estate or investment in technologies;  the Application Services Director for North America;  the Intellectual Property Committee, which decides Group  the Sogeti Director. priorities and investments in this area and, in particular, the Central departments: global roll-out of innovations resulting from local initiatives;  the Strategy and Development Director;  the Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, which is in charge of the effective implementation of the risk  the Global Sales Director; identification and risk management system and which leads  the General Secretary; the associated internal controls.  the Marketing and Communications Director; Finally, in a certain number of cases where it was considered  the Production/Methods and Support Director; useful or necessary (and particularly in the Group’s main countries), a Coordination Committee was appointed bringing  the Chief Innovation Officers; together local managers of the different Group businesses and  the Head of Transformation; tasked with improving cooperation (particularly with respect to  the Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility actions carried out individually by one or other business for the Director and UK coordination large accounts. major clients appearing in a list drawn up at the beginning of the year). The Executive Committee comprises a total of 22 people at the date of this Registration Document. In addition, 5 special-purpose committees assist Group Management:  the Group Review Board, chaired by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which examines the major business proposals in the course of drafting or negotiation, multi-national or multi-business framework agreements entered into with clients or suppliers and major contracts involving guarantees given by the Group; 2.3.3 The central departments Group Management is assisted by the following central The Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility departments organized as follows at the date of this Registration Department Document. Mrs. Christine Hodgson steers the Group’s social and environmental responsibility policy which is managed by a Reporting to Mr. Paul Hermelin department that she heads and a committee that she chairs comprising Group managers and employees from a wide range People Management and Talent Development of backgrounds. This committee considers the challenges of Department protecting the environment, diversity and corporate citizenship. The People Management and Talent Development Department She reports to Mr. Hubert Giraud, People Management and is headed by Mr. Hubert Giraud. Mr. Giraud is in charge of Transformation Director, in respect of these duties. managing the Group’s Human Resources policy with the principal Mrs. Hodgson also chairs the United Kingdom Commercial aim of developing the skills and productivity of the Group’s Coordination Committee and reports directly to the Chairman employees. His role is to lead local initiatives so that they reflect and Chief Executive Officer in this respect. our on-going commitment to performance, encourage a new generation of managers and set up diversified and Technology Department complementary career paths. He is responsible for modernizing This department, headed by Mr. Patrick Nicolet since January 1, and simplifying employee management tools as well as the 2018, manages the technology and innovation agenda for the policies rolled out in this area by the Group’s subsidiaries, Group. It coordinates the work for all proprietary solutions particularly with respect to the retention of high potential making up the Group’s intellectual property and builds upon the managers and their career orientation. He is assisted by the Group's client-driven applied innovation strategy. It conducts and Group Talent Management Director, who is responsible for develops the technological dialogue with the Group’s major talent management, developing leadership and succession plans strategic partners and is committed to placing their innovations for our key executive managers. The Group Compensation and and the Group’s solutions at the core of the Group’s offering and Benefits Director is responsible for the management of service portfolio. compensation policies applied in the Group, those of Group managers and related share capital incentive programs. 82 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group The Group’s internal IT Department, which manages the Group’s Development and Strategy Department global infrastructures and applications and drafts technical This department, managed by Mr. Pierre-Yves Cros, deals with all standards applicable to all Group IT assets, also reports to issues related to Strategy, as well as acquisitions and Mr. Nicolet, as does the IT Security Department, which seeks to divestments. It is primarily tasked with fostering deliberations on ensure the IT security of the Group as a whole, through the strategic issues by Group Management, the Board of Directors, implementation of appropriate tools, training and controls. its Chairman and the Strategy & Investment Committee. As such, it summarizes and develops the Group’s internal and external The Finance Department The Finance Department is headed by Mr. Aiman Ezzat at the strategy. It maintains close relations with leading firms specializing in analyzing the market and trends therein. The 2 date of this Registration Document, and is responsible for: department oversees compliance with the Group’s internal transformation program and monitors, in conjunction with the  Group operating management control, comprising supervision Technologies Department, the emergence of innovative of the preparation of budgets, monthly forecasts and potential partners that could contribute to the Group’s organic performance monitoring as well as operational reporting and growth. It examines acquisitions and divestments in close financial consolidation; conjunction with the Finance Department.  financing and treasury;  accounting books and records and accounting standards; The Marketing and Communications Department  taxation and insurance; Mrs. Virginie Régis heads this department, which is responsible for the Group’s internal and external communication and is  financial information systems and the transformation of tasked with coordinating actions implemented in this area by finance; operating subsidiaries as well as their marketing deliberations  financial communication and investor relations; and initiatives.  real estate and real estate transformation projects; The Sogeti, Financial Services, Apps Two and Business Services  the procurement department, which over and above entities also report to Mr. Paul Hermelin until June 30, 2018. managing relations with all Group suppliers, contributes to arbitrating between internal developments and the use of Reporting to Mr. Thierry Delaporte outside service providers and the supply of resources to our The following Business Units: engagements. He also heads the Group’s global risk management process.  Consulting & Digital Services, headed by Mr. Cyril Garcia;  Cloud Infrastructure Services, headed by Mr. Jean-Philippe Bol. The General Secretary This position is occupied by Mr. Jean-Baptiste Massignon who is Capgemini India responsible for: Mr. Srinivas Kandula is responsible for the development and performance of the delivery centers based in India, with the  Group governance, including secretarial services for the Board primary task of raising operating performance levels to those of Directors of the listed company, Capgemini SE and its attained by the best sector companies in India. operation pursuant to the bylaws; The Cloud and Digital horizontal entities formed to mobilize  legal affairs, which encompasses the management pursuant technological and functional resources and make them available to the bylaws of the subsidiaries comprising the Group, legal to all Group units and their clients: assistance to operations through local Legal Departments and regulatory compliance policies applicable to the Group, in  Cloud Foundation Services, which mobilizes consulting, particularly regarding data protection; information systems architecture and transformation  the management of the control process for risks presented by expertise to assist clients in their transition to the Cloud; certain business proposals. In this respect, he prepares the  Digital, which mobilizes competent technology resources decisions presented to the aforementioned Group Review across three key Digital transformation pillars: (i) Insights & Board; Data, i.e. data analysis and processing offerings (Big Data), (ii)  corporate secretarial services for Capgemini Service, the Digital Customer Experience offerings and finally (ii) Digital entity which provides operating and support services to Manufacturing offerings, grouping together the Group’s Capgemini SE. know-how in the digitalization of industrial processes, the optimization of production assets and technologies enabling The Ethics & Compliance and Internal Audit the connection of things. Department Headed by Mr. Philippe Christelle, the Internal Audit Department reports directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and is tasked with controlling the correct application by business units of Group principles and rules, particularly with respect to risk management and control. The implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the relevant business units is systematically monitored. Mr. Philippe Christelle also heads the Ethics & Compliance Department of the Group, reporting directly to Mr. Paul Hermelin. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 83 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group Reporting to Mr. Aiman Ezzat The Global Sales Department The Production/Methods and Support Department Headed by Mrs. Rosemary Stark, this department encompasses: Headed by Mr. André Cichowlas, this department is tasked with designing and disseminating prevailing methodologies within the  the management of client offerings and the launch of growth Group, certifying certain categories of employee (project leaders, initiatives; architects, etc.) and performing audits of risk-sensitive projects  the stimulation and promotion of Group offerings in the conducted by specialized teams known as “flying squads”. It following sectors: Utilities/Distribution & Consumer leads and supervises the various standardization and productivity Goods/Automobile Industry/initiatives managed centrally but improvement programs undertaken by the Group Strategic entrusted, in the name and on behalf of the whole Group, to Business Units. The current priority is optimizing management of operating entities; the work force.  the definition and standardization of sales support processes. As well as the Apps One Business Unit. 84 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 2.4.1 Executive Corporate Officers compensation policy 2.4.1.1 Existing practices Operating Officers in accordance with the practices which exist within the Group and in reference to French market practice and 2 General Principles to international benchmark. The Group also ensures that the The procedures for setting the compensation of the Executive respective proportions of fixed and variable components and Corporate Officers whether the Chairman and Chief Executive share grants valued in accordance with IFRS are balanced, in line Officer or the Chief Operating Officers comply with the with market practices, linked to Company’s performance and recommendations of the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in aligned to Group strategy. November 2016. Compensation components and structure were The fixed component has always been determined pursuant to a determined in accordance with the recommendations of this long-lasting Group practice, which aligns the compensation Code, whether fixed or variable compensation, the grant of structure of the Executive Corporate Officers with that of key equity instruments or supplementary pension benefits and in operating managers. One of the historical rules of the Group is addition to complying with “market” rules are in line with that the remuneration of executive management comprises a existing Group practices, These principles are regularly reviewed fixed component equal to 60% of the target theoretical and discussed by the Compensation Committee of the Board compensation and a variable component equal to 40% of this which submits a report on its work and its resulting proposals to amount subject to the attainment of pre-defined collective and the Board of Directors for approval. individual objectives. The Compensation Committee refers in particular to The Compensation Committee also monitors the main practices comparative studies to ensure the transparency, consistency of its international competitors. Compensation practices in North and competitiveness of both the compensation level and America and India are structurally and culturally different from structure and calculation methods with market practice. The those applied in European companies. Observing their practices Committee’s recommendations take account of executive nonetheless provides relevant information on the nature of the management compensation levels and components in CAC 40 market and compensation levels. In American companies such as companies as well as observed practice in leading French and Accenture, DXC and IBM, total compensation includes a foreign Group competitors in the IT services and consulting substantial proportion of long-term share-based compensation sector. Compensation publication practice varies significantly between the countries and legal structures of competitors, in Procedures for setting fixed and variable particular in the case of private partnerships. CAC 40 companies compensation are therefore the most relevant benchmark and the most The procedures for setting Executive Corporate Officers transparent, but additional analyses take account of the compensation in respect of fiscal year Y are adopted by the international and competitive aspects of the sector and Board of Directors’ meeting in Y held to approve the financial geographies in which the Company operates. statements of fiscal year Y-1. As indicated above, this The Compensation Committee took due note of the compensation comprises – as does that of all key executive observations issued to Capgemini in July 2014 by the High managers of the Group – fixed compensation paid in 12 monthly Committee for Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de installments equal to 60% of the total theoretical amount if Gouvernement d’Entreprise, HCGE) and of its activity reports since objectives are achieved and variable compensation equal to 40% 2015, as well as of the AMF annual reports on corporate of this total theoretical amount, closely correlated to the governance and executive management compensation in listed Company’s performance. companies. These observations were taken into account and The Board of Directors therefore approves at the beginning of integrated into the items detailed below. No observations were the year for the year in progress: made in 2015, 2016 and 2017.  the theoretical fixed and variable compensation When performing comparisons with French companies of components. The theoretical variable component is split into comparable size and ambition, the Compensation Committee two parts: V1 tied to Group performance indicators and ensures that Capgemini’s practices are in line with the best consolidated results and V2 based on the attainment of practices of CAC 40 companies in terms of both the clarity and individual objectives set by the Board of Directors, with 50% consistency of methods applied. As in previous years, the Group minimum based on quantified objectives; Each of these participated in 2017 in comparative studies of the main French components can vary between 0% and a ceiling equal to 200% companies carried out by specialist firms. These comparisons of the theoretical amount. Therefore, as a result of this show that Mr. Paul Hermelin’s global compensation is close to system, fixed plus variable compensation may vary between the median compensation for CAC 40 companies and is of an 60% and 140% of the annual theoretical/target adequate level compared with comparable sector compensation compensation. The variable component and the total in France and abroad. In addition, an independent study was compensation are therefore both capped and the variable commissioned to a well known international firm, to support the component may not represent more than 133% of fixed compensation level setting of the two newly appointed Chief compensation as indicated in the summary table below; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 85 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers  the fixed component which is not reviewed annually, but that objectives are clearly tied to the roll out of the Group’s after several years in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. strategy priorities approved by the Board of Directors as Mr. Paul Hermelin’s fixed compensation was increased in 2008 conditions to deliver the long term strategic plan; and was only reviewed in 2013 (+10%) following an extension  the acceleration formula applied to V1. The V1 component of his responsibilities and to reflect the strong growth and varies in line with a formula, that accelerates actual international expansion of the Group and has remained performance upwards and downwards such that in 2017: unchanged since; ❚ the V1 component is nil if the weighted performance of  the internal performance indicators included in the financial indicators is less than or equal to 75%, calculation of the V1 component and the weighting applied to each indicator. The level of attainment of these indicators ❚ the V1 component can reach twice the theoretical amount if is determined based on a comparison of actual audited and the weighted performance is greater than or equal to 125%; budgeted Group consolidated results. The performance varying on a straight-line basis between these two limits. indicators are adopted in line with the key indicators presented The level of attainment of objectives and the amount of the regularly to the market and are tied in 2017 as it will be the variable compensation components are decided pursuant to the case in 2018 to: recommendation of the Compensation Committee, by the Board ❚ growth through Group Revenue achievement for 30%, of Directors’ meeting in Y+1 held to approve the financial statements of fiscal year Y. The Committee meets on several ❚ operating profitability through Group Operating margin for occasions before the Board of Directors’ meeting to appraise the 30%, percentage attainment by Mr. Paul Hermelin of his objectives. An ❚ cash generation through the Group Free Organic Cash Flow executive session of the Board was held in December 2017 and for 20% another one in February 2018 to assess such performance before ❚ shareholders return through net profit before taxes for the Board of Directors which decides the level of attainment by another 20% as this is the driver to assess the dividend level; Mr. Hermelin of his objectives.  the individual performance objectives underlying V2 The variable compensation used to be paid end of March, after compensation. The strategic and operating objectives for 2017 the Board of Directors’ meeting that approves the financial of the Chief Executive Officer felt into three main categories, statements for fiscal year Y, underlying the calculation of the “the Digital and Cloud acceleration roadmap”, “the HR and various variable compensation components and that decided the delivery strategy around diversity, talent management and percentage attainment of individual objectives set. Since 2017, mobility” and “the recovery of the North American operations”. the variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board of Directors ensured the objectives were based on Officer is paid following approval by the Shareholders Meeting directly measurable items so that overall 75% of the total of the compensation elements for fiscal year Y and this will be variable compensation was based on quantitative data and, applicable as well to the Chief Operating Officers. Summary table of the theoretical structure of fixed and variable compensation applicable to Executive Corporate Officers Theoretical compensation structure, base 100 Target Min Max Gross fixed compensation 60 60 60 Annual variable compensation V1 20 0 40 Annual variable compensation V2 20 0 40 Multi-year variable compensation 0 0 0 Theoretical total if objectives are attained 100 60 140 % variable / fixed 67% 0% 133% Capgemini share-based incentive policy procedures  the associated conditions are ambitious, as demonstrated by The Group stopped granting stock options in 2009 and now the effective share grant percentages of the first four fully grants performance shares in accordance with the following vested plans with respectively 42.3% for the 2009 plan, 56.7% principles: for the 2010 plan, 87.9% for the 2012 plan and 83.9% for the 2013 plan, of the number of shares initially granted;  performance shares are granted subject to the same  the performance conditions are set in the resolution conditions of presence and performance as applicable to submitted for shareholders' approval and include, internal and other Group beneficiaries and all shares are subject to external conditions in accordance with the AMF performance and presence conditions. Mr. Paul Hermelin recommendation, and are calculated over a 3 years period to received performance shares in 2009, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, ensure a sustainable performance and to align Executive 2016 and 2017 but was not granted any shares in 2010 or Corporate Officers and shareholders interests in the long run; 2011; 86 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers  the volume of shares granted to executive corporate officers  in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF pursuant to the resolutions presented to shareholder vote is Code, performance shares are now granted on at the same limited (maximum of 10% of shares available for grant set in calendar periods and are decided by either the Board of the last resolution voted on May 10, 2017). The performance Directors’ meeting at the end of July or the following meeting shares granted to Mr. Paul Hermelin in 2015 and 2016 held in October. This has been the case since 2015 as the represented 2.32% and 2.44% respectively of the total grants was made in July in 2015 and 2016 and in October in amount authorized by the Combined Shareholders Meeting 2017 in alignment with the Group 50th anniversary and for the corresponding periods and 3.2% and 2.52% of the “Rencontres” announcement. total amount granted to all beneficiaries within these Two small special grants were made outside this timeframe. One 2 resolutions. These percentages were 2.07% and 2.21% took place in February 2016 targeting former IGATE employees respectively for 2017. Since 2009 and over ten performance as at the time of the 2015 grant made in July 2015, IGATE had share grants, the average percentages are 2.17% and 2.88% just been bought not leaving enough time to ensure a proper respectively; selection of the beneficiaries. Therefore, and after having  the IFRS value of shares granted aims at not exceeding close informed the HCGE of our intention, a special grant has been to 100% of the theoretical yearly cash compensation for a made in February 2016 for this specific and limited population. given year, and over the last 4 years this value has ranged For the second one, while the decision to make the annual grant from 60% to 95% of the theoretical cash compensation; in October was taken, nevertheless, a small grant took place in  in accordance with the legal provisions, the Board of Directors July 2017 targeting a limited population from a newly bought must set the number of definitely vested shares granted in company (Idean) as part of the purchase agreement. Neither the connection to their office which shall continue to be held by Chief Executive Officer nor the Group Executive Committee the executive corporate officers until the termination of their members were concerned by these two grants. office. Mr. Paul Hermelin currently holds Capgemini SE shares representing more than 10 years of his fixed and variable One-off award annual compensation. A one-off award, if any would only be applicable in case of an Mr. Paul Hermelin was required to hold all vested external hiring of an Executive Corporate Officer with the need performance shares received under the 2009, 2012 and 2013 to buy out awards that would be lost following this hiring plans until the later of: decision. In such case, the award would be proportionate to the lost amounts. ❚ the end of the mandatory two-year holding period (2009 plan), extended to four years (2012 and 2013 plan), and ❚ the expiry of his term as executive corporate officer. Summary of the target compensation structure of Executive Corporate Officers Since then and in accordance with the recommendation of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors decided that vested performance shares representing at least 50% of shares must be retained, where the amount of shares held, Annual Long term valued at share price on the vesting date, represents less than a threshold expressed as a multiplier of the theoretical annual compensation (fixed and variable). Once this threshold is reached, the obligation to retain performance shares only 40% applies to one third of shares vested. Finally, the Board of Variable Directors has decided on February 14, 2018 that if the number of shares valued on the vesting date represents twice the 100% threshold, then the obligation to hold shares that vest as a Variable result of these grants would be set at five percent, executive corporate officers being entitled to freely sell their shares as 60% long as i) the value of their shares remains above the later Fixed threshold and ii) at least five percent of each share grant is held until the termination of their office as executive corporate officer;  share hedging transactions are prohibited before the end of the mandatory holding period. This prohibition is included in the grant plan rules and applies to all beneficiaries. It applies Overall structure since the first performance share grant plan in 2009; Variable 70%/Fixed 30%  effective presence on vesting date is required for shares to be definitely granted as per the terms of the plan rules with the exception of death, disability and retirement. These presence conditions and exceptions apply since the first performance share grant plan. In other circumstances, the shares are forfeited; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 87 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 2.4.1.2 Specificities and proposed fixed Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for 2018 V1 and variable compensation compensation will remain unchanged as follows: for Executive Corporate Officers  revenue growth: 30% weighting;  operating margin rate: 30% weighting; Specific items and proposed 2018 fixed and variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive  pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; Officer  free cash flow: 20% weighting. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: The level of attainment of these indicators will be determined as in past years, based on a comparison of actual audited and  no longer benefits from an employment contract, which was budgeted Group consolidated results and will be subject to the terminated on February 18, 2015; accelerated formula (upward or downward).  has waived his right to receive director’s fees since 2009; The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2018 V2 variable  is not entitled to termination benefits; compensation have been each assigned an individual specific  is not covered by a non-compete clause; weight and have been classified in two main categories. Following the new governance structure in place since January 1,  does not benefit from a multi-year variable or deferred 2018 and with the launch announced in Geneva during the compensation mechanism; 50th anniversary Group Rencontres of a major transformation  does not benefit from one off awards; program, the Compensation Committee suggested to the Board  does not have fringe benefits. which approved this proposal, to structure the objectives of each Executive Corporate Officer with a set of common/shared The threshold under which 50% of shares definitely vested have objectives associated with a set of specific/role-based ones. to be held until the termination of the office has been has been Therefore, objectives of the CEO are built as follows: set for Mr Hermelin at twice his annual theoretical compensation applicable on vesting date. As this threshold had been attained shared objectives represent 60% of the CEO V2 and they relate each time since the July 2014 grant, the obligation to hold shares to: that vest as a result of these grants has been set at one-third of i) the effective implementation of the new Group governance vested shares for the corresponding plans. and managerial transition and a reinforced collaboration The terms of the supplementary pension which rights were between market units and service lines, positioning the frozen in 2015 following the closing of the plan are described in Group on the path to achieve its growth ambition in the section 2.4.2 thereafter, being specified that when implemented Digital and Cloud and its 2020 ambition, for a 30% weight the plan was fully aligned with AFEP-MEDEF Code (out of which 10% is quantifiable); and recommendations. ii) the operational transformation of the Group with a renewed leadership structure for 30% (out of which 30% is Fixed and variable compensation of the Chairman quantifiable); and Chief Executive Officer for 2018 specific objectives represent 40% of the CEO V2 and they Following the principles just described, the Board decided, relate to: pursuant to the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, to set Mr. Paul Hermelin’s theoretical compensation i) the impact of M&A on the Company growth and the for 2018 at €2,652,000 representing a 9.6% increase. Mr Paul successful post merger integration for 15% weighting (out of Hermelin remuneration remained unchanged since 2013 and has which 7.5% quantifiable); not been adjusted during his previous mandate. However, ii) the deployment of the CSR strategy around its three pillars contrary to aforesaid principles, considering the present fixed (diversity, digital inclusion and sustainability), 15% weighting compensation level in regard to market practice, the Board has (out of which 10% quantifiable); and decided to leave the fixed compensation unchanged at iii) the strategic bets to accelerate the transition to innovative €1,452,000 for 2018 and rather to increase the variable solutions, 10% weighting. percentage from 40% to 45%. The Board also set the procedure for calculating the variable component of Mr. Hermelin’s compensation for fiscal year 2018 (€1,200,000), defining the performance indicators underlying the V1 calculation, as well as the personal strategic objectives adopted for the V2 component. 88 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 2018 variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amount of the free-cash ﬂow Operating margin New governance M&A, including Innovation In 2018 rate objective & Management transition integration strategy Group Pre-tax net Revenue transformation CSR strategy proﬁt objective objective 2 20% 20% 30% 30% 30% 30% 15% 15% 10% FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES PERSONAL OBJECTIVES (including 57.5% quantiﬁable) These objectives have been formalized in such a way as they can Long saving plan be clearly assessed on objective grounds at the end of 2018 with The Board of Directors, on the proposal from the Compensation a weight of 57.5% based on quantified objectives. Therefore Committee, decided that the Chief Operating Officers shall 79% of the variable part will be subject to a quantitative continue to be entitled to benefit from the long saving evaluation in 2018. mechanism from which they used to benefit as a member of the Payment of the variable compensation of the Chairman and Group’s Executive Board, neither of them benefiting from the Chief Executive Officer for fiscal year 2018 remains subject to supplementary pension (Art. 39) plan frozen in 2015. This plan, approval by the shareholders at the Shareholders' Meeting to be was implemented since 2016, to remain attractive for senior held in 2019. executives while being able to offer a long term incentive vehicle in better economic conditions for both the Company and the The Existing Practices described in 2.4.1.1 and the Specific items beneficiary and more aligned to market and legal evolutions and proposed 2018 fixed and variable compensation of the (portability, performance conditions, agility); It consists in the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer set out in 2.4.1.2 above payment of an annual allowance, at least half of which shall be correspond to the report of the Board of Directors to allocated to a third-party body in the context of a supplementary shareholders established pursuant to the provisions of optional pension insurance (Article 82), the rest of the allowance Article L.225-37-2 of the Code de Commerce related to the in cash being kept by the Chief Operating Officer, considering principles and criteria of the Chairman and Chief Executive the immediate taxability upon entry of this mechanism. This Officer compensation. These principles and criteria remain allowance would be made in the following conditions: subject to shareholders’ approval at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 (please refer to resolution n°5 in chapter  the allowance is subject to the satisfaction of performance 6 of this Registration Document) and will continue to apply further conditions, the objectives of which are set in the same to the renewal of Mr. Hermelin’s mandate as Chief Executive conditions as for the determination of the V1 variable part of Officer and Chairman of the Board following the upcoming the annual variable compensation; Shareholders’ Meeting.  the amount of the allowance where all the objectives have been reached is equal to 40% of the fixed part composing the Specific items and proposed 2018 fixed and variable annual compensation; it will vary according to the unflexed compensation of the Chief Operating Officers weighted performance of the financial indicators used for the In addition to the general principles, procedures followed to set the V1 part; fixed and variable compensation and the share-based incentives  the payment of the allowance with respect to year N, subject which are common to Executive Corporate Officers, Chief to the satisfaction of the performance conditions for year N, is Operating Officers packages comprise the following specificities deferred as follows: ❚ 50% of the amount calculated would be paid in year N+1, Employment contract ❚ 50% of the amount calculated would be paid in year N+2, With regards to Mr. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat, their provided that the Chief Operating Officer shall be present employment contracts have been suspended since in the Group as at June 30 of year N+2. January 1,2018 subsequent to their appointment as Chief Operating Officers of Capgemini (date from which they exercise The calculation procedure and the objectives related to this their first term of office as Executive Corporate Officers) this allowance will be set each year by the Board of Directors, on the suspension being compliant with the recommendations of the proposal from the Compensation Committee. The Board of AFEP MEDEF Governance Code for a Chief Operating Officer, Directors decided that the calculation procedure, the Company’s and deemed appropriate in relation to their seniority in the internal performance indicators taken into account for the Group, being specified that their contract.do no stipulate any calculation of the V1 part, and the level of weighting associated entitlement to a severance pay provision. to each indicator with respect to the financial year 2018, will be set by the Board of Directors, on the proposal from the Shares holding threshold Compensation Committee, during the meeting during which the results of the financial year ended December 31, 2017 will be For the Chief Operating Officers, the threshold under which 50% adopted. of definitely vested shares have to be held until the termination of their office has been set at one year of their theoretical annual compensation (fixed and variable). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 89 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Benefits in kind Non-compete undertaking In addition to the above-mentioned items, the structure of the Subject to the condition precedents (i) of the approval of the Chief Operating Officer compensation may also comprise the Chief Operating Officer’ compensation policy by the General provision of a company car, if required under prevailing Meeting and (ii) of the renewal of their mandates as Chief conditions within the existing plan in place in France. Operating Officer, following the upcoming General Meeting, the Board of Directors upon a proposal of the Compensation The appointment of MM. Delaporte and Ezzat as Chief Operating Committee decided that each Chief Operating Officer shall be Officers aims at preparing the managerial evolution of the subject to a non-compete undertaking for a period of twelve Group. During this transition period, the Board estimated that it months as from the termination of his employment contract was in the interest of the Group to implement a non-compete following termination of his functions of Chief Operating Officer undertaking while offering a capped severance indemnity to the against an indemnity equal to half of the applicable gross Chief Operating Officers in case of a termination. These two theoretical compensation (fixed plus variable) where all the items are detailed thereafter. objectives have been reached as at the date of termination of the functions of Chief Operating Officer. The Board of Directors Capped severance indemnity under performance will be entitled, at its own discretion, to lift this non-compete conditions due in the event of a termination of the obligation on departure of the Chief Operating Officer and function of Chief Operating Officer therefore in such case, not to implement this non-compete Following the appointment of MM. Delaporte and Ezzat as Chief indemnity. Operating Officers as of January 1, 2018, the Board based on the proposal of the Compensation Committee has in addition Pursuant to Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, authorized, subject to the condition precedents (i) of the the commitments made by the Board of Directors vis-à-vis approval of the Chief Operating Officers compensation policy by Mr. Thierry Delaporte and Mr. Aiman Ezzat with respect to the the General Meeting and (ii) of the renewal of their mandates as severance indemnity and the non-compete clauses will be Chief Operating Officer following the upcoming General subject separately to the approval of the next General Meeting Meeting, the principle of a severance indemnity which would be of the shareholders (please refer to resolutions n°7 and 8 in due to each Chief Operating Officer in the event of a termination chapter 6 of this Registration Document). of their corporate office. However, no severance indemnity shall For further information on the severance indemnity and on the be due if the Chief Operating Officer leaves the Company on his non-compete undertaking, please refer to information on own initiative, changes functions within the Group, is entitled to regulated agreements with related parties in Section 2.1.2 and to assert in a near future his rights to retirement or in the event of a the Statutory Auditors’ special report on page 273. gross negligence or serious misconduct. In compliance with the recommendations of the revised Fixed and variable compensation of the Chief Operating AFEP-MEDEF Code, the aggregate amount (i) of the severance Officers for 2018 indemnity effectively paid, (ii) of any indemnity likely to be paid Mr. Thierry Delaporte in connection with the termination of an employment In application of the principles just described, the Board decided, agreement, and (iii) of any indemnity likely to be paid in pursuant to the recommendation of the Compensation consideration for the non-compete undertaking, may not exceed Committee, to set Mr. Thierry Delaporte’s theoretical a maximum amount equal to twice the applicable gross compensation for 2018 at €1,475,000; This implies that the fixed theoretical compensation (fixed plus variable) as at the date of part of Mr. Delaporte, will be set at €885,000 for 2018. The termination of said functions. Board also set the procedure for calculating the variable The granting and the amount of the severance indemnity component of Mr. Delaporte’s compensation for fiscal year 2018, depend on the percentage of achievement of the weighted defining the performance indicators underlying the V1 performance of the financial indicators due to the Chief calculation, as well as the personal strategic objectives adopted Operating Officer in regard to his V1 variable part during each of for the V2 component. the last three completed financial years preceding the Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for his 2018 V1 termination of his functions as Chief Operating Officer, being compensation will be the same as the ones set for the Chairman specified that the last year will count for 40%, while the two and Chief Executive Officer: previous financial years will count for 30% each. The granting and the amount of the V1 variable part being subject to  revenue growth: 30% weighting; performance indicators and to the Group’s consolidated results,  operating margin rate: 30% weighting; the severance indemnity is as a result subject to the satisfaction  pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; of these same performance conditions.  free cash flow: 20% weighting. The Board will have to ensure the effective achievement of these performance criteria. The level of attainment of these indicators will be determined, based on a comparison of actual audited and budgeted Group consolidated results and will be subject to the accelerated formula (upward or downward). 90 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2018 V2 variable Digital and Cloud and its 2020 ambition, for a 20% weight compensation have been each assigned an individual specific (out of which 5% is quantifiable); and weight and have been classified in two main categories. ii) the operational transformation of the Group with a Following the new governance structure in place since January 1, renewedleadership structure for 20% (out of which 20% is 2018 and with the launch announced in Geneva during the quantifiable); 50th anniversary of the Group of a major transformation program, the Compensation Committee suggested to the Board specific objectives represent 60% of his V2 and they relate to: which approved this proposal, to structure the objectives of each i) Through strong interaction with Business Units & Global Executive Corporate Officer with a set of common/shared Business Lines, acceleration of Digital innovation and 2 objectives associated with a set of specific/role-based ones. transformation for 15% weighting (out of which 15% is Therefore, objectives of Mr. Thierry Delaporte are built as quantifiable); follows: ii) Improvement of the gross margin % vs. 2017 published shared objectives represent 40% of his V2 and they relate to: results; 15% weighting (out of which 15% is quantifiable); i) the effective implementation of the new Group governance iii) Success of four alliances bets; 15% weighting (out of which and managerial transition and a reinforced collaboration 15% is quantifiable); and between market units and service lines, positioning the iv) Redesign the India strategic positioning within our Group on the path to achieve its growth ambition in the operational transformation; 15% weighting. 2018 variable compensation of Mr. Thierry Delaporte Amount of the free-cash ﬂow Operating margin New governance Innovation In 2018 rate objective & Management transition & Digital transformation Alliances Pre-tax net Revenue Group Gross margin India strategy proﬁt objective objective transformation improvment positioning 20% 20% 30% 30% 20% 20% 15% 15% 15% 15% FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES PERSONAL OBJECTIVES (including 70% quantiﬁable) These objectives have been formalized in such a way as they can Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for his 2018 V1 be clearly assessed on objective grounds at the end of 2018 with compensation will be the same as the ones set for the Chairman a weight of 70% based on quantified objectives. Therefore 85% and Chief Executive Officer: of the variable part will be subject to a quantitative evaluation in  revenue growth: 30% weighting; 2018.  operating margin rate: 30% weighting; The long saving plan has been set at €355,000 for 2018 to be payable under the defined performance and presence conditions  pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; in 2019 and 2020.  free cash flow: 20% weighting. The payment of the variable compensation and of the first part The level of attainment of these indicators will be determined, of the long saving plan of Mr. Delaporte for fiscal year 2018 will based on a comparison of actual audited and budgeted Group be subject to approval by the shareholders at the Shareholders' consolidated results and will be subject to the accelerated Meeting to be held in 2019. formula (upward or downward). Mr. Aiman Ezzat In application of the principles just described, the Board decided, pursuant to the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, to set Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s theoretical compensation for 2018 at €1,560,000; This implies that the fixed part of Mr. Ezzat, will be set at €936,000 for 2018. The Board also set the procedure for calculating the variable component of Mr. Ezzat’s compensation for fiscal year 2018, defining the performance indicators underlying the V1 calculation, as well as the personal strategic objectives adopted for the V2 component. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 91 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2018 V2 variable Group on the path to achieve its growth ambition in the compensation have been each assigned an individual specific Digital and Cloud and its 2020 ambition, for a 20% weight weight and have been classified in two main categories. (out of which 5% is quantifiable); and Following the new governance structure in place since January 1, ii) the operational transformation of the Group with a renewed 2018 and with the launch announced in Geneva during the leadership structure for 20% (out of which 20% is 50th anniversary of the Group of a major transformation quantifiable); program, the Compensation Committee suggested to the Board which approved this proposal, to structure the objectives of each specific objectives represent 60% of his V2 and they relate to: Executive Corporate Officer with a set of common/shared i) Higher contribution of our top accounts to revenue growth; objectives associated with a set of specific/role-based ones. 15% weighting (out of which 15% is quantifiable); Therefore, objectives of Mr. Thierry Delaporte are built as ii) Improvement of the gross margin % vs. 2017 published follows: results; 15% weighting (out of which 15% is quantifiable); shared objectives represent 40% of his V2 and they relate to: iii) Return to growth in one geography as decided by the Board; i) the effective implementation of the new Group governance 15% weighting (out of which 15% is quantifiable); and and managerial transition and a reinforced collaboration iv) Ensure a smooth transition of the CFO role to the new CFO between market units and service lines, positioning the to be appointed; 15% weighting. 2018 variable compensation of Mr. Aiman Ezzat Amount of the Contribution free-cash ﬂow Operating margin New governance of top accounts Growth in one In 2018 rate objective & Management transition to revenue geography Pre-tax net Revenue Group Gross margin CFO proﬁt objective objective transformation improvment transitioning 20% 20% 30% 30% 20% 20% 15% 15% 15% 15% FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES PERSONAL OBJECTIVES (including 70% quantiﬁable) These objectives have been formalized in such a way as they can The Existing Practices described in 2.4.1.1 and the Specific items be clearly assessed on objective grounds at the end of 2018 with and proposed 2018 fixed and variable compensation of the Chief a weight of 70% based on quantified objectives. Therefore 85% Operating Officers set out in 2.4.1.2 above correspond to the of the variable part will be subject to a quantitative evaluation in report of the Board of Directors to shareholders established 2018. pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-37-2 of the Code de Commerce related to the principles and criteria of the Chief The long saving plan has been set at €375,000 for 2018 to be Operating Officers compensation. These principles and criteria payable under the defined performance and presence conditions remain subject to shareholders’ approval at the Combined in 2019 and 2020. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 (please refer to resolution The payment of the variable compensation and of the first part n°6 in chapter 6 of this Registration Document) and will continue of the long saving plan of Mr. Ezzat for fiscal year 2018 will be to apply further to the renewal of their mandates as Chief subject to approval by the shareholders at the Shareholders' Operating Officers following the upcoming Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2019. Meeting. 92 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 2.4.2 2017 Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (gross amounts) Compensation in respect of 2016 Compensation in respect of 2017 Mr. Paul Hermelin: Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Paid in Paid in Total Paid in Paid in Total Executive Officer thereafter 2016 2017 2016 2017 2018 2017 Gross fixed compensation 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 2 Annual variable compensation 24,200 1,051,655 1,075,855 24,200 967,468 991,668 Multi-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind TOTAL COMPENSATION DUE IN RESPECT OF FINANCIAL YEAR 1,476,200 1,051,655 2,527,855 1,476,200 967,468 2,443,668 In addition, the value of performance shares granted during the year and valued as per the IFRS rules on grant date are reported below: Value of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of options granted during the year Value of performance shares granted during the year 2,212,650 2,212,650 2,323,342 2,323,342 TOTAL 2,212,650 2,212,650 2,323,342 2,323,342 Fixed and variable compensation 59% 41% Attendance Fees VARIABLE PERFORMANCE-RELATED Voluntary waiver €2,443,668 COMPENSATION Beneﬁts in kind €0 Fixed Remuneration Real variable compensation Long-term compensation Non-compete clause Fully comprised of performance shares: €0 35,000 performance shares Accounting value at grant date in accordance with international Termination beneﬁts accounting standards €2,323,342 (IFRS, International Financial Reporting €0 Standard): €2,323,342 Multi-year compensation €0 Pursuant to say on pay policy and the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code officer must be presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for a issued in November 2016 with which Capgemini complies, the mandatory vote. The following table summarizes the compensation of executive corporate officers due or awarded in compensation components subject to shareholder advisory vote respect of the year then ended of each executive corporate pursuant to the say on pay policy. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 93 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Compensation components due or awarded in respect of 2017 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and subject to shareholder mandatory vote Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2017 was approved by the Board of compensation (paid in Directors on February 15, 2017 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It 2017) represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged on 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Paul Hermelin’s role who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and the evolution and internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.1% per annum. This theoretical compensation falls within the median of CAC 40 executives. Annual variable €991,668 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 14, 2018, the Board, based on the audited and compensation (paid in approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the 2018) amount of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2017, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results as compared to an ambition decided by the Board: 1) % attainment of the revenue: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2017 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the objectives set by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 15, 2017. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 99.38%, 93.11%, 98.77% and 103.6% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 98.22%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that for 2017: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 75%, the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 125%, the V1 component will be capped and equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 4%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 98.22% in 2017 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 92.89%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*92.89% = €449,588. V2 component: The evaluation and the associated proposal have been prepared on the basis of the work done by the Compensation Committee which reviewed the various qualitative objectives grouped into three categories: “Digital and Cloud strategic roadmap” for 40%, “the HR and delivery strategy” for 30% and “the growth of the North American market” for 30%. For the first category (Digital and Cloud strategic acceleration-40%), the Board set three qualitative indicators with an overall 25% weight around i) ensuring the communication of a clear strategic roadmap, an aligned and effective acquisition strategy and targets supporting the roadmap and an associated go to market structure. The overall assessment made by the Board on these three elements were supported by a clear presentation made during the Group “Rencontres” last October in Geneva, five new acquisitions realized or managed in 2017 and a defined road map for the go to market. It was partly balanced by the fact that the go-to-market implementation will only be effective July 1, and that a new major acquisition was announced only in 2018. This led them to evaluate the overall achievement at 96% for this part, the first two being exceeded, while the last one being in progress. For the quantitative measure weighting 15%, the growth of Digital& Cloud offerings was due to be strong in 2017 with a similar trend in the 2018 budget. With a 24% communicated growth in these domains, the Board considered that this quantitative objective has been well exceeded. In regard to the achieved quantified indicators and to the qualitative evaluation, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been achieved at 115%. 94 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation For the second category (HR and delivery strategy -30%), the Board based its recommendations on the following quantitative objectives for 15% i) an above 20% growth year on year of the female representation in the Group Executive Committee and Strategic Business Units/key Business Units Management Committees which has been more than doubled at 47% ii) a 10% internal VP mobility vs 2 14% achieved and iii) a 15% growth of the senior offshore leadership presence in Management Committee, which has been met. He has also based its recommendations on the two following qualitative objectives for 15% i) a progressive refreshment of Group leadership supported by an external renowned assessment firm, and ii) adaptation/anticipation to regulatory changes. For these two qualitative elements, the Board in addition to the new governance, noticed the nominations of several leaders to the Executive Committee and a significant renewal in the VP population as well as the creation of a global mobility function associated with a risk mitigation strategy around mobility. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been overachieved at 113%. For the third category (growth of the North American market -30%), the Board took into consideration two quantitative indicators each with a 10% weight i) the revenue growth at least equal to market growth in the second semester year on year which has been exceeded with an organic growth of 8.3% achieved in the second semester and ii) the increase by 5 points of the Digital& Cloud offerings in the portfolio which has been nearly achieved with a +4.7points improvement. From a qualitative standpoint, the indicator was around the reinforcement of the North America organization and governance, which following several appointments and based on a strong second semester has been evaluated by the Board as achieved for the qualitative part. The Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 107%. The Board approved a weighted performance of 112% as per the table below: Target Proposal Objective type Computed Qualitative Computed Qualitative Digital and Cloud 15% 25% 22% 24% acceleration HR and delivery strategy 15% 15% 19% 15% (diversity, mobility and talent management) North America growth 20% 10% 22% 10% Total 50% 50% 63% 49% Target 100% Proposed 112% leading to a V2 calculation of €484,000*112%=€542,080 Accordingly, a variable compensation of €991,668 was approved by the Board for 2017, i.e. 68.3% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 102.4% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2017 is therefore €2,443,668 i.e. 101% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: 2017 Variable compensation calculation for Mr. Paul Hermelin V1: quantitative part based on budgeted financial targets Indicators Weight % of Weighted achievement Total Revenue 30% 99.38% 29.82% Operational Margin % 30% 93.11% 27.93% Net results before tax 20% 98.77% 19.75% Organic Free cash Flow 20% 103.6% 20.72% Total weighted R/B before flex 98.22% Total weighted after 75/125 flex (4*weighted 92.89% R/B-3) Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 449,588 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 95 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation V2: qualitative part based on 2017 objectives Categories Weight Overall weight Digital and Cloud acceleration 40% HR and delivery strategy 30% 112.0% North America growth 30% Variable V2 on target 484,000 Computed V2 542,080 TOTAL 2017 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 991,668 As a % of the total variable on target 102.4% As a % of fixed compensation 68.3% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid after the submission of the compensation policy to the shareholders. Deferred N/A There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year N/A There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional N/A No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation Stock options, Performance 35,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. performance shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance shares or any €2,323,342 condition and an internal performance condition. The internal performance condition accounts for other form (accounting 50% of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2017 to of long-term value on 2019. The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €2.9 billion. Above this threshold, shares compensation grant date) vest progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of €3.2 billion or more. The external performance conditions accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of the Capgemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of 8 comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/Indra/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Capgemini share is less than 100% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 50% of the initial grant vests. The external condition has been strengthened since 2016, as the effective vesting of shares starts from a minimum achievement of 100% of the basket of comparable companies, while it historically started at 90%. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer may not exceed 0.001% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. Sixteenth resolution Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on October 5, 2017 Stock No stock options or other items were granted. options = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance fees Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect waiver attendance fees as a director of Capgemini SE. in respect of 2017 (as he has done for the last eight years). Valuation €0 No benefits in kind. of benefits in kind 96 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Other compensation components Compensation components due or awarded in respect of 2017 that were presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for vote pursuant to the regulated agreements and commitments procedure Amount subject to vote Presentation 2 Termination payments €0 No entitlement to termination payments. Non-compete N/A No non-compete indemnities. indemnities Supplementary pension €0 No amount due in respect of the year benefits Mr. Paul Hermelin is a member of the supplementary collective defined benefit pension plan (Article 39) setup in 2006 in Capgemini Service, under the same conditions applicable to other employee members. This plan was reviewed by an external firm which confirmed that it complies with the AFEP-MEDEF recommendations of October 6, 2009, as it complies with the revised AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code issued in June 2013. The plan was closed to new beneficiaries in 2015 and rights of existing members have been frozen as of October 31, 2015. In order to receive benefits under this plan it is necessary to be with the Group at the time of retirement, to have at least 10 years of seniority, to have been a Group Executive Member for at least 5 years and to have a compensation level above 8 PASS (French annual social security ceiling) during 5 years at least. Benefits are based on reference earnings equal to the average of the three best years (fixed and variable part) from among the ten years preceding retirement. In addition, this supplementary pension is subject to three cumulative limits such that the pension amount cannot exceed: ■ 40% of reference earnings; ■ 50% of reference earnings, including pensions received under all other pension plans; and ■ reference earnings are capped at 60 times the French annual social security ceiling. Benefits are proportional to length of service (minimum of 10 years required and a maximum of 30 years), reflecting the required progressive acquisition of entitlement, which remains well below the threshold set by the AFEP-MEDEF code and the recent legal ceiling of 3% per annum. Entitlement is acquired at a rate of 1.5% per year for the first 10 years of seniority and for subsequent years only at rates of: ■ 1% up to 20 PASS; ■ 2% between 20 and 40 PASS; ■ 3% between 40 and 60 PASS. Therefore, the maximum possible annual entitlement is equal to 1.83% before potential impact of the cumulative limits. Due to the long seniority of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (frozen at 23 years in 2015) the value of the annual pension is estimated at a net amount after income tax and employee social contribution of 300k€, corresponding to a gross amount of 901k€ or 37% of his 2017 theoretical compensation. The plan is financed through an external insurance company and as such the required funds to pay the pension support a contribution of 24%. Also as the pension is higher than 8 PASS the pension supports a contribution estimated at 30% as in previous years. 21 members have benefited from this regime since its launch with 8 presently active as of 31/12/2017. Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2007 Fourth resolution in respect of regulated agreements. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 97 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Employment contract of the Chief Executive officer his entitlement to pension benefits, given his seniority in Officer the Group on this date (23 years) and the services he has rendered to the Company and was in no way motivated by a With regards to Mr. Paul Hermelin, the Board reminds readers desire to maintain for his benefit any entitlement to a severance that his employment contract has been suspended in its entirety pay provision stipulated in his employment contract (his contract since May 24, 1996 (date from which he exercised his first term does not contain any such provision). In keeping with this of office as a member of the Management Board), but that it was measure, Mr. Paul Hermelin following his commitment to the decided in 2009, pursuant to a recommendation by the Selection Board of Directors to waive his employment contract on & Compensation Committee, to maintain jointly his term as reaching the age at which he may legally exercise his right to corporate officer and his employment contract. This decision was retire, informed the Board of Directors’ Meeting of February 18, based on the desire to maintain for this executive corporate 2015 that he waived his employment contract as from that date. Chief Executive Officer: employment contract and deferred compensation: Indemnities or benefits following appointment, Supplementary termination or Indemnities in Employment pension plan change in respect of non contract (see before) function compete clause Mr. Paul Hermelin Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 Yes closed with and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter No frozen rights No No 2.4.3 Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate officers In compensation for the time spent participating in Board and  payment of a fixed amount of €2,500 for each attendance at a Committee meetings, the Company was authorized by the meeting of one of the four Specialized Board Committees Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 to pay (excluding the Committee Chairmen); attendance fees to directors of up to €1,200,000 per year. The  payment of additional attendance fees of €5,000 per Board or method of allocating attendance fees between directors was Committee meeting to take account of the travel time of reviewed in 2014, following the external assessment of the directors resident outside Europe and of €2,000 for directors Board of Directors performed in 2013 and sought to take better resident outside France but in Europe. This additional account of the increasing workload of committee Chairmen and attendance fee is not allocated to Directors representing encourage good attendance at meetings as well as of the travel employees, whose travel costs are covered otherwise; time of Directors resident outside France. Accordingly, attendance fees are now allocated on the following basis:  attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end of the first six months and at the end of the year and are paid in two  payment of a fixed amount of €15,000 per year to each installments; director;  these fixed amounts could be reduced if circumstances  payment of a fixed amount of €4,000 for each attendance at require the Company to hold a greater than scheduled an official meeting of the Board; number of meetings, resulting in aggregate attendance fees  attendance fees for the Specialized Board Committees were exceeding the threshold authorized by the Combined set with regard to the specific role of each committee and the Shareholders’ Meeting. ongoing work required of Chairmen, who now receive a fixed It is recalled that Mr. Paul Hermelin voluntarily waived his right to annual payment of: collect the attendance fees that should have been paid to him as ❚ €45,000 for the Lead Independent Director and Chairman of director of Capgemini SE. in respect of 2017 (as he has done for the Ethics and Governance Committee and €45,000 for the the last eight years). Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, In application of the above principles these principles if fully ❚ €35,000 for the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, applied, would have driven a €1,222,250 distribution, and after ❚ €25,000 for the Chairmen of the Compensation Committee applying a reduction mechanism, total attendance fees of and the Strategy & Investment Committee; €1,199,990 were paid to directors in respect of 2017, representing 100% of the maximum amount authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. After deduction of French and foreign withholding tax, a net amount of €779,449 was paid in respect of 2017. 98 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Attendance fees due in respect of one fiscal year and paid during another fiscal year are detailed below: Amount due Amount due Gross amount paid Gross amount paid (in euros) in respect of 2016 in respect of 2017 in 2016 in 2017 Daniel BERNARD 96,500 118,516 98,000 98,000 Anne BOUVEROT 47,500 59,516 63,000 49,000 Yann DELABRIÈRE 74,000 57,016 74,000 68,000 2 Laurence DORS 69,000 104,766 73,000 76,750 Carole FERRAND 29,500 73,516 5,000 60,500 Robert FRETEL 18,000 63,516 0 46,500 Siân HERBERT-JONES 29,500 73,516 5,000 60,500 Paul HERMELIN (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) Phil LASKAWY* 74,000 81,516 80,500 76,500 Kevin MASTERS* 15,500 66,016 0 41,500 Xavier MUSCA 54,000 84,516 47,500 65,500 Patrick POUYANNÉ n/a 37,516 n/a 6,500 Pierre PRINGUET 76,500 99,516 80,500 85,500 Bruno ROGER 79,000 93,516 83,000 80,500 Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 46,500 66,016 50,500 50,500 Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE* 89,000 121,016 95,500 100,500 TOTAL 798,500 1,199,990 755,500 966,250 (*) As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these non-resident beneficiaries. A 36.5% deduction at source for income tax and CSG/CRDS social security contributions was also applied to amounts paid to beneficiaries resident in France. The non-executive directors did not receive any compensation With regard to Mr. Yann Delabrière, MM Consulting, a legal other than attendance fees, with the exception of the directors entity of which he is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has representing either employee shareholders (Ms. Lucia contracted a one year agreement with Capgemini Consulting in Sinapi-Thomas) or Group employees (Mr. Robert Fretel and order to support this entity Digital Manufacturing go to market Mr. Kevin Masters), who hold employment contracts from their strategy, leveraging his knowledge of the automotive industry. respective Group legal entities in respect of their local functions, The agreement started in October 2016 and terminated in that are unrelated to their corporate office in the Company and October 2017. Fees billed by MM Consulting to Capgemini of Yann Delabrière who has contracted a senior advisor contract Consulting for work performed in 2017 amounted to €157,500. with a Group entity (see below). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 99 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 2.4.4 Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares The following tables present a breakdown of stock options and It should be noted that: performance shares granted to, exercised by or vested to  stock options have not been granted within Group since 2009; Executive Corporate Officers during 2017 and historical information on stock options and performance shares granted:  No performance shares have vested to Mr. Paul Hermelin in 2017 Stock options granted Value of options during the year to using the each Executive Number and type method adopted Corporate Officer by (purchase or in the Capgemini SE and/or subscription) of consolidated any other Group Plan date and options granted financial company number during the year statements Strike price Exercise period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Stock options exercised during the Number of year by each options Executive Corporate Plan date and exercised during Officer number the year Strike price Exercise period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a Performance shares Value of shares granted during the calculated using year to each Theoretical the method Executive Corporate maximum adopted in the Officer by Capgemini number of shares consolidated Potential SE and/or any other Plan date and granted during financial Potential availability Performance Group company number the year statements vesting date date conditions Paul HERMELIN 10th plan of 35,000 €2,323,342 10/05/2020 Later of the end A detailed 10/05/2017 of his term of description of the office and conditions is 10/05/2022 presented in Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements Performance shares vested to each Number of Executive Corporate Plan date and shares vested Vesting Officer number during the year conditions Year of grant Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a 100 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Historical information concerning stock options granted to corporate officers The Group has not granted any stock options since 2008 and the last grant performed on June 1, 2008 expired in 2013. Date of Shareholders’ Meeting 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 Grant date 10/01/2005 10/01/2006 04/01/2007 10/01/2007 06/01/2008 th th th th Plan number 6 plan 6 plan 6 plan 6 plan 6th plan Total number of shares granted 1,915,500 2,067,000 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 2 o/w granted to Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to Paul Hermelin 50,000 50,000 (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to the ten employees receiving the greatest number of shares 109,000 200,000 86,000 114,000 60,000 Start of exercise period 10/01/2006 10/01/2007 04/01/2008 10/01/2008 06/01/2009 Expiry date 09/30/2010 09/30/2011 04/01/2012 10/01/2012 06/01/2013 Subscription price (in euros) 30 43 55 44 40.5 Exercise conditions 10% after 1 year, 30% after 2 years, 60% after 3 years and 100% after 4 years Historical information concerning performance shares Plans ended 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan 2013 Plan Grant date 03/05/2009 10/01/2010 12/12/2012 02/20/2013 Number of performance shares initially granted 1,148,250 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 o/w granted to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 Number of shares vested 485,750 881,048 882,500 1,014,700 o/w to Paul Hermelin* 25,000 (nil)) 50,000 50,000 Cumulative number of shares cancelled or expired 662,500 673,952 121,000 194,400 Number of shares potentially available for grant at the end of 2017 n/a n/a o/w to Paul Hermelin* n/a n/a Vesting date-France 03/05/2011 10/01/2012 01/01/2015 03/01/2015 Vesting date-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 End of holding period-France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2019 03/01/2019 End of holding period-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 Share price at grant date (in euros) 23.3 37.16 33.15 36.53 (*) Complete historical information on performance shares granted is provided on Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 101 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Active plans 2014 Plan 2015 Plan 2015 Plan 2016 Plan 2017 Plan 2017 Plan Grant date 07/30/2014 07/29/2015 02/17/2016 07/26/2016 07/26/2017 10/05/2017 Number of performance shares initially granted 1,290,500 1,068,550 180,500 1,663,500 63,597 1,522,500 o/w granted to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 40,000 (nil) 42,000 (nil) 35,000 Number of shares vested 391750 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a o/w to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Cumulative number of shares cancelled or expired 201,250 92,950 36,450 88,450 0 17,300 Number of shares potentially available for grant at the end of 2017 697,500 975,600 144,050 1,575,050 63,597 1,505,200 o/w to Paul Hermelin* 0 40,000 0 42,000 0 35,000 Vesting date-France 08/01/2016 03/01/2018 03/01/2018 08/01/2019 n/a 10/05/2020 Vesting date-outside France 08/01/2018 08/01/2019 03/01/2020 08/01/2020 08/01/2020 10/05/2021 End of holding period-France 08/01/2020 03/01/2021 03/01/2020 08/01/2021 n/a 10/05/2022 End of holding period-outside France 08/01/2018 08/01/2019 03/01/2020 08/01/2020 08/01/2020 10/05/2021 Share price at grant date (in euros) 53.35 87.6 71.61 83.78 94.2 100.25 (*) Complete historical information on performance shares granted is provided on Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Historical information concerning stock options granted to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) Stock options granted by Capgemini SE to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having thus subscribed for the greatest number of shares are as follows: Total number of Stock options granted to/exerciced by the ten employees stock options Weighted (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares granted/exercised average price Plan number Options granted during the year by Capgemini SE to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares None n/a None Options exercised (held previously on Capgemini SE) by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number of shares None n/a None Performance shares granted by Capgemini SE to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows: Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees Total number of shares (non corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares vested/ granted Plan number Performance shares granted during the year by Capgemini SE to the ten employees of 10th Performance all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares 144,000 share plan Performance shares (held previously on Capgemini SE) to the ten Group employees 3rd & 4th Performance holding the greatest number of vested shares 250,000 share plans 102 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control 2.5 Risks and internal control This section was drafted jointly by several Group stakeholders. In accordance with the Law of July 3, 2008, this section was The departments that play a key role in identifying and reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on controlling major risks include particularly the Internal Audit, February 14, 2018, following a review by the Audit & Risk Ethics & Compliance, Finance, Insurance, Legal, Human Committee. Resources and Security & Mobility Departments. 2 2.5.1 Definition of the internal control and risk management systems a. Framework e. Organization of the internal control The Group builds on the reference framework and the and risk management systems application guidance published initially in January 2007 and updated on July 22, 2010 by the French Financial Markets Group values Authority (AMF). Since its creation, Capgemini has placed significant importance The risk management and internal control systems contribute in on compliance with the values and principles which guide and a complementary manner to controlling the activities of the inspire its actions and, in particular, our business practices. These Group and satisfy objectives that are also complementary. seven core values, defined by the Group's founder Mr. Serge Kampf, are honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, fun, modesty and team spirit. They represent the Group's fundamental DNA and b. Objectives of the internal control and risk justify its reputation as an ethical and responsible company. In management systems this respect, Capgemini has, for several years, been rated one of The Group's internal control and risk management systems seek the “World's Most Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere to create and protect the Group's value, assets and reputation, Institute. and identify and measure the major risks to which the Group is The ethics system founded on the Group's values and the Code exposed, anticipate and foresee changes in these risks and finally of Business Ethics has been supplemented by several policies. implement risk prevention and transfer measures. This system seeks to: In this context, Capgemini Group has defined and implemented a  develop within new recruits an ethical culture promoting control system that seeks to ensure: integrity of behavior;  compliance of all management acts with relevant laws and  raise awareness of compliance with international and national regulations; laws and regulations;  compliance with the Group’s seven core values and  highlight initiatives aimed at strengthening the system to guidelines set by the Board of Directors and/or Group prevent and avoid infractions, non-compliance and negligence Management; in these areas.  application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated; General internal control and risk management  the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control processes safeguarding assets; and principles Group Management has distributed a set of rules and procedures  the reliability of accounting and financial information. known as the Blue Book. Compliance with the Blue Book is mandatory for all Group employees. The Blue Book sets out and c. Scope of the internal control comments Capgemini's seven core values, sketches out the and risk management systems overall security framework within which the Group's activities Capgemini Group ensures the implementation of risk must be conducted, and, finally, describes the desired behaviors management and internal control systems within its subsidiaries. and specifies the prohibitions applicable in each of the Group's In 2017, such systems covered all consolidated subsidiaries and main functions. Group businesses. These principles ensure consistent, efficient and accountable Acquired companies are integrated progressively into the decision-making. They concern: internal control and risk management system. All material Group  the delegation of decision-making powers and authorization; subsidiaries are currently integrated into the general system the decision-making process applied within the Group is based presented in this report. on rules governing the delegation of powers complying with the principle of subsidiarity and corresponding to the three d. Limitations levels of Capgemini's organization: While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational ❚ the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit, support functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk ❚ provisions common to the Strategic Business Unit (SBU) for control, this system does not however offer an absolute all issues concerning several Business Units under its guarantee of the control of all possible risks imaginable, no more authority; than it can irrespective of the skills of the employees performing the controls guarantee alone the attainment by the Group of all objectives set. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 103 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control ❚ the Group (Office of the CEO, Group Executive Board, Group The Audit & Risk Committee is therefore required to review all Executive Committee, central functions, etc.) where a systems implemented by Group Management. These reviews decision concerns a wider scope than the Strategic Business cover: Unit and for all transactions that must be decided at Group  the overall consistency of the system; level due to their nature (acquisitions, divestments, etc.) and/or transactions with financial impacts in excess of  verification that the major risks faced by the Group are well-defined materiality thresholds. identified and monitored; This process has been formalized in an authorization matrix  presentation of new or emerging risks. which requires both prior consultation and the provision of Group Management and the Risk Committee sufficient information to the parties involved. Recommendations Group Management has delegated to a Risk Committee, created submitted to the final decision-maker must include the views of in 2016, the definition and implementation of the various all interested parties as well as an assessment of the advantages activities relating to the risk management process within the and drawbacks of each of the possible solutions ; Group. The Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Financial  the framework of general policies and procedures; the Blue Officer, is responsible for the effective implementation of a risk Book defines the governance and organization of the Group management and internal control system within the Group. It and the main principles and basic guidelines underpinning the reports to the Audit & Risk Committee on all issues concerning Group's internal control procedures, and sets out the Group's these systems. requirements in each of the following areas: The Risk Committee brings together the main members of Group ❚ Group key principles, Management with key players in the risk management process ❚ Group organization and governance, within the Group. At least two meetings are held annually to discuss the following main issues: ❚ authorization and approval processes, ❚ sales and production rules and guidelines,  monitoring of the implementation of risk management and internal control systems within the Group; ❚ risk management, pricing, contracting and legal rules, in the  identification and prioritization of risks; the Risk Committee client contract pre-sale phase, validates the mapping of the Group's main risks; ❚ financial management, merger, acquisition, and insurance  monitoring of plans defined and implemented for priority rules and guidelines, risks; ❚ human resources policies,  the potential review of new or emerging risks communicated ❚ marketing and communications, knowledge management by the various Business Units. and Group IT, The Risk Committee is also responsible for: ❚ procurement policies, including ethical requirements and supplier selection,  proposing to the Board of Directors the Group's acceptable risk level; ❚ environmental and community policies.  monitoring changes in the Group's main risks; This set of rules and procedures, which has force of law within the Group, reminds employees of their obligations in this area  selecting the priority risks to be covered by short-term action and inventories the tools and methods which help them control plans; risks identified in the exercise of the Group's businesses.  monitoring these action plans in conjunction with the priority risk managers, as designated by the Risk Committee; The rules and procedures were updated in 2016 to reflect the development of the Group's business activities and changes in its  approving and implementing the risk management and environment. internal control policy. At an operating level, the Risk Committee builds on the actions Risk management and internal control players of the Insurance Director, who is responsible for coordinating From 2016, the Group developed a risk management framework Group risk management and who supports the risk management administered by a Risk Committee and involving various parties activities of the Risk Committee, and the managers of the various operating at different levels of the organization. These key Business Units and functional departments. players are presented below for each of the three lines of In this respect, the risk management coordinator: defense.  makes methodology tools and approaches available to the These rules and procedures are updated periodically to reflect various management bodies; the development of the Group's business activities and changes in its environment.  coordinates all risk management activities within the Group;  centralizes and consolidates all work and particularly work Governance bodies performed by the various priority risk managers; The Audit & Risk Committee  encourages the sharing of good practice within the Group. The Capgemini SE Board’s Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the efficiency of risk management and internal control systems. 104 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control 1st line of defense: from management to employees Each Business Unit is audited in line with a bi-annual program Operations and Business Unit management supplement and covering the entire Group: the Chairman and Chief Executive adapt the Blue Book drafted by Group Management, by drawing Officer has the power to modify this program in the event of an up detailed internal control procedures which comply with the emergency (delays and irregularities, major divergence from relevant laws, regulations and customary practices in the country budgetary commitments, etc.). At the request of the Chairman where they operate, in order to exercise control more effectively and Chief Executive Officer, the Internal Audit Department may over risks specific to their local market and culture. also perform special assignments to review specific situations. Operations and Business Unit management duties include the During 2017, the Internal Audit Department performed: 2 identification and control of risks relating to their own  55 audits of units from all Group Strategic Business Units. environment, in compliance with the rules and procedures implemented and communicated by the Group functional Each audit involved an average of 36 man-days in the field and departments. concluded with the issue of an action plan that management of the unit audited undertook to implement as quickly as 2nd line of defense: function departments with risk expertise possible in order to improve or correct the points identified by The various Group functional departments assist the Risk the audit. Internal Audit uses a tool covering the entire Group Committee with the identification and prioritization of risks. and enabling it to monitor real-time the implementation of Each department defines and rolls out risk control systems in its recommendations following the audit, focusing particularly on activity sector and ensures, in particular, the consistency of priority actions; actions undertaken in the Business Units with these guidelines. It  3 special assignments following allegations or assists all Group entities by facilitating the sharing of risk whistle-blowing; management and internal control best practice. The Internal Audit Director presents twice annually to the 3rd line of defense: internal audit Capgemini SE Board’s Audit & Risk Committee, a comprehensive For over 30 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central report on the department's work, particularly regarding internal Internal Audit function. Its Director reports directly to the control efficiency and risk management in the preparation and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, guaranteeing the internal processing of financial and accounting information. audit function is independent of the functions and Business The Ethics & Compliance Department is directly responsible for Units audited. The internal audit team comprises 33 auditors, the ethics and compliance programs and the ethics phase of due representing 10 different nationalities and covering 90% of the diligence assignments on companies that the Group is languages spoken locally in the Group. This significant considering acquiring. These reviews (ethical due diligence) internationalization of the internal audit team reflects the desire involve an examination, from an ethical stance, of all the to accompany the expansion of the Group into new regions of activities of the target company in order to ensure, in particular, the world; the Internal Audit Department also has a Bombay their compatibility with expectations and ethics controls defined desk with 18 auditors including 4 technical experts specializing in by the Capgemini Group. the review of IT projects. The Ethics & Compliance Department issued 6 ethical due In accordance with professional standards governing this activity, diligence reports in 2017. the internal audit function independently assesses the The Ethics & Compliance Director presents once annually to the effectiveness of internal control and risk management Capgemini SE Board’s Ethics & Governance Committee a specific procedures given that, irrespective of how well they are drafted report on measures implemented under the ethics program and and how stringently they are applied, these procedures can only the results of compliance audits of the Group's Code of Business provide reasonable assurance and not an absolute guarantee Ethics (in particular the Ethics Code of Conduct, the Group against all risks. Competition Laws policy and the Group’s anti-corruption policy). Internal Audit is therefore tasked with: Finally, the Ethics & Compliance and Internal Audit Departments  reviewing the internal control procedures implemented in the may at any moment draw up a special report for presentation to Strategic Business Units and their component legal entities to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on any matter they ensure that they comply with the general principles and rules consider should be brought to his attention and inform the Audit laid down by the Group and with certain specific procedures and Risk Committee and/or the Ethics & Governance Committee enabling the elimination or mitigation of the risks to which where significant deviations have been identified. they are exposed locally; The risk management and internal control system comes from  auditing the Group's major contracts considered to present the interaction between the Risk Committee and other risk significant risk; Internal Audit uses one or more technical players, including the Ethics & Compliance Department, Internal experts (Group Delivery Auditors), who are selected from Audit, the Insurance Department, the Business Units and the among a list of Group accredited professionals according to functional departments, which are responsible for day-to-day risk their skills (and also their complete independence from the management in their specific areas. unit being audited). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 105 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control 2.5.2 Implementation of risk management and internal control objectives for the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information These procedures ensure the application of and compliance with Finally, the shared service centers pool the accounting accounting and financial rules defined by the Group relating to processing resources of the Group's subsidiaries. The main budgets and forecasts, operational reporting, consolidation, centers are located in Cracow (Poland) and Calcutta (India). financial control and financial communications. These various centers are consolidated within a globalized structure. a. Financial and accounting structure The Group's financial functions are integrated into the operating b. Budgets, forecasts, reporting and consolidation structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They have In order to exercise effective control over their operations, the access to common resources encompassing accounting rules and Group requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, procedures, information and management systems and shared quarterly, half-yearly and annual reports of all budget, forecast, service centers. operational and accounting information required for the general management of the Group as follows: Each Business Unit has a dedicated financial controller (reporting to the corresponding Strategic Business Unit's financial  budget and forecasting process; budgets form the basic controller) who is responsible for ensuring that the results of its building blocks in the management control process. They are activities are accurately reported in the accounts in accordance debated and negotiated at length between the different with Group accounting rules and methods. The financial Group Business Unit managers and their superiors, with each controller verifies that services are correctly billed and paid, budgetary item decided based on past performance, the checks profit estimates for ongoing projects and assesses their Group's chosen strategic priorities and available information accounting impact, and attests to the quality of the information concerning expected market trends. Group Management sets contained in the financial reports and accounting packages used quantified targets for each geographic area, Strategic as the basis for preparing the Group's consolidated financial Business Unit and their component Business Units. The statements. The Strategic Business Unit financial controllers, budget preparation process is a key moment in the whose main responsibility is to ensure that high-quality financial relationship between the different levels of the Group's and accounting information is reported to the parent company management and makes it possible to substantially link the on a timely basis, report to the Group Chief Financial Officer in variable portion of the compensation paid to Business Unit order to safeguard the independence required when preparing managers to the attainment of the budgetary targets of their accounting results. Financial control is, therefore, decentralized. Business Unit and the next level Business Unit to which they belong. A forecast operating income statement (for the The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial current month, the following six months and the full year) is Director, whose duties and responsibilities include rolling-out prepared monthly by each Business Unit manager. Variances Group systems and procedures in the country, helping maintain from budget are analyzed so that any corrective action plans an effective internal control environment, ensuring that all that may be needed can be drawn up as quickly as possible; financial staff in the country or region are well-versed in the Group's accounting policies and methods, checking compliance  operational reporting process; information reporting is with local taxation and statutory reporting requirements, liaising structured by geographic area and business. This allows with shared service centers and the Statutory Auditors, setting revenues and costs to be analyzed on a monthly basis both by accounts closing and financial reporting timetables, signing off type and function, and performance measures to be updated on the consolidation packages of the subsidiaries under his or and compared with budget (A/B), the latest forecasts (A/F) her authority, signing the representation letter, jointly with the and prior-year figures (A/A). A monthly management report is head of the Business Unit, and bringing any and all matters that prepared for each Strategic Business Unit jointly by the he or she sees fit to the attention of the Chief Financial Officer. manager and financial controller, and is submitted to Group Management for review. This report gives a detailed All financial staff are required to apply the Group's accounting breakdown of actual performance, forecasts for the following procedures and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, six months and actions taken in the event of material which sets out: variances between actual and budget figures. Reconciliations  the strict rules of internal control; are performed systematically to ensure that financial  what information must be reported, when, and how often; information derived from the operational reporting system is consistent with the consolidated financial information  management rules and procedures; provided by the legal entities within the Group;  accounting policies, rules and methods;  consolidation process; at each yearly or half-yearly closing, the  performance measures. scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by the In addition, the Group has a single integrated management Finance Department and validated by the Legal Affairs system (GFS). The application as a whole migrated to the Department. Written instructions are issued providing the publisher's latest version on January 1, 2015 and its roll-out in schedule for period-end tasks (particularly the reconciliation the Group's subsidiaries continued during 2017. The desired of inter-company transaction balances), highlighting current uniformity of management systems is therefore a step closer, accounting issues requiring specific attention, and describing strengthening the control environment. the control procedures applied during the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Each yearly and half-yearly closing is preceded by a hard-close phase based on the accounts closed at November 30 and May 31, respectively 106 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control The consolidation process is based on accounting packages by and methods established by the Group. In particular, Internal geographic area, which must be signed off by the person Audit is required to pay special attention to revenue responsible for preparing them. Income statements, balance recognition methods and to controlling the percentage of sheets and other key management indicators required for completion of projects, so as to ensure that these are subsequent analysis are stored in a single database maintained at accounted for on the basis of rigorous, up-to-date technical Group level. Access to this information system is strictly assessments. The Internal Audit brief also includes a review of controlled. the procedures and controls in place within the Business Unit to ensure the security and validity of transactions and During each annual closing period, the Finance Department accounting entries; 2 sends out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries covering the application of general internal control principles and procedures  The Statutory Auditors, who it need merely be noted here, relating to the processing of reported financial and accounting carry out an ongoing review of internal control procedures information. These questionnaires are analyzed for any with an impact on the preparation and quality of the financial irregularities and corrective measures devised where statements as part of their audit engagement. appropriate. Communicating financial information is subject to rigorous internal control, with a particular focus on three key media used c. Financial information to report financial information: Financial information and its communication are subject to  the Half-Year Financial Report and the Annual Report; specific controls at half-year and annual period ends. These  financial press releases; include:  analyst and investor meetings.  a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the Legal Department of all material operations and transactions The Annual Report is a key component of the Group’s financial occurring during the period; communication. The preparation of the report, its content, illustrations, design and distribution are therefore subject to  a procedure to identify, collate and report off-balance sheet close attention by Group Management. All the sections of the commitments and any other information liable to have Group's Annual Report are written by employees and managers significant repercussions on the financial position of the of the Group who are each responsible for designing and Group or one of its subsidiaries at the period-end; setting-out a chapter on their area of competence, within the  a review of the tax position of each of the Group's legal general framework proposed by the Communications entities; Department. The Registration Document, which is integrated in  a review of the value of intangible assets; the Annual Report, combines all the information that must be provided pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements and is  a detailed analysis of the statement of cash flows. drawn up under the responsibility of the Finance Department. The controls described above and carried out by the Finance Financial press releases are only published further to formal Department are supplemented by the work of two independent validation of the Board of Directors or the Chairman and Chief bodies tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control Executive Officer. Financial press releases are published outside environment and verifying the quality of the financial the trading hours of the Paris stock exchange, except in statements: the internal auditors and the Statutory Auditors: exceptional circumstances.  Internal audit; based on a program covering the Group's Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific Business Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chairman and preparation, and their content is presented to the Board of Chief Executive Officer (to who it reports directly), Internal Directors prior to such meetings. This preparatory work is then Audit is responsible for carrying out controls to ensure that used as a framework for comments and explanations provided procedures relating to the safeguarding of assets, the by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial valuation of work-in-progress, the actual amount of trade Officer, or employees in charge of investor relations during the accounts receivable, and the proper recognition of liabilities, meetings. are applied in each Business Unit in accordance with the rules 2.5.3 Risk analysis The analysis of the risks to which the Group's activities are The different risks are presented by type: exposed is an integral part of the Group's various  risks relating to operations and the strategy; decision-making processes, whether for short-term annual plans or mid-term strategic plans.  operational risks; In this context, the Group has implemented a systematic and  legal risks; dynamic risk management process in order to ensure the proper  financial risks. conduct of business and the attainment of the various strategic objectives, structured around four key stages identification, a. Identification of risks prioritization, processing and steering. Capgemini Group completed updating the mapping of its major The Group has an up-to-date overview of its key risk exposures risks in 2017, during which it assessed the risks likely to have a and has defined a specific risk strategy for each risk considered a significant negative impact on its activity, financial position or priority. results. The risks presented below are the result of this analysis work. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 107 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control The mechanisms for managing (i) climate risk and (ii) risks laws to copy or replace. Each of these impacts, as well as other associated with the corporate duty of care: serious violations of impacts not anticipated by the Group, could have a negative human rights and fundamental freedoms, the health and safety impact on its activities, operating performance, financial position of individuals and the environment are presented in Section 3.1.4 and cash flow generation. of this Registration Document. Furthermore, in accordance with the latest French Financial Risk management systems Markets Authority (AMF) recommendations on the specific The Group monitors and anticipates, as far as possible, nature and importance of risks reported by issuers, Capgemini no macroeconomic developments at global level, by closely longer reports on competition and external growth risks, as they monitoring company trends in the markets where it operates, as are not considered a priority at Group level and/or are not well as analyzing the potential impacts of these changes on its specific to its business sector at the time of preparation of this own businesses and those of its clients. report. While a substantial proportion of the Group's operations Nonetheless, it remains possible that changes in economic depends on its clients' investment capacity, the fact that the conditions or the legal environment could give rise to certain Group is organized around medium-sized Business Units close to risks not currently identified as material that could impact the their target market allows for rapid responsiveness to changes in results of the Group, its objectives, reputation or the share price. the business environment. The Group regularly monitors Brexit developments and the b. Risks relating to operations and the strategy Catalan crisis, so as to take appropriate measures to mitigate Capgemini is a service provider and consulting group, and as these risks based on decisions taken by the relevant countries such, the main risks to which the Group is exposed are (i) failure and the European Union. to deliver the services to which it has committed; (ii) failure to deliver services within the contractual timeframe and to the Reputation required level of quality; or (iii) infringement, of a client or third party's obligations, notably through human error. In the course Risk analysis of its consulting activities, the Group has an obligation to provide Intense media coverage of any difficulties encountered, information and could incur liability should it fail to do so. especially on major or sensitive projects requiring crisis Furthermore, in a rapidly changing technology environment, the management, could negatively impact the Group's image and Group must constantly ensure it adapts to new client product credibility in the eyes of its clients and third parties generally, and service expectations. and by extension, its ability to maintain or develop certain activities. Economic risks When dealing with third parties and clients, the behavior of an employee may be inconsistent with our principles, and Risk factors particularly our values of honesty and trust and could present a The Group's growth and financial results may be adversely danger to the Company if contrary to personal or professional affected by a general downturn in the IT services and related ethics, compliance rules or legislation, even where this behavior consulting sector or in one of Capgemini's other key business is strictly forbidden by the Group. segments. A shake-up resulting in a change of ownership at one New social media players challenge the security of our internal IT of Capgemini's clients or a decision not to renew a long-term systems and those of our clients and any cybersecurity failures contract may have a negative effect on revenue streams and could have an extremely negative impact on our reputation. require cost-cutting or headcount reduction measures in the Business Units affected. Other incidents likely to damage Capgemini Group’s reputation include the voluntary or involuntary disclosure of confidential The general economic context and more precisely restrictions information or a breach of individual security within Capgemini affecting public bodies in the various countries subject to Group. budgetary efforts, may weigh on the Group’s revenues and operating margin. A continued slowdown in the activity of Finally, employees could make negative comments on social certain economic sectors in which our clients operate would also media (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) on Capgemini's performance, limit their ability to invest and accordingly impact the results of service offers or human resource policy, thereby tarnishing the the Group. Group's reputation. Finally, and more generally, a major crisis impacting the financial markets or unfavorable trends in macro-economic indicators Risk management systems could potentially restrict the Group's ability to attain its Compliance with clear principles of business ethics is firmly objectives and continue its development. embedded in Capgemini's culture, honesty being one of the Group’s seven core values. From this point of view, the Code of In this respect, the situations in the United Kingdom and Spain Business Ethics distributed in 2010 represents the continuation following recent voting results, could have a negative impact on and formal documentation of cultural reflexes already firmly the European or global economy and market conditions. Brexit embedded in Capgemini. A specific policy dealing with the could contribute to instability in the financial markets and the prevention of corruption was distributed within the Group in international foreign exchange markets, with notably increased 2011, followed by a second in 2012 covering anti-trust volatility in the pound sterling or euro. Brexit could, furthermore, legislation. generate legal uncertainties and potentially changes to UK laws and regulations, as the country decides which European Union 108 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control All new recruits are asked to undertake to comply with the Risk management systems principles explained in these two policies and follow an The Group monitors the international development of its e-learning training course thereon. An organizational structure business, focusing on countries offering satisfactory guarantees rolled-out in each country comprising an Ethics and Compliance in terms of individual security and business ethics and a robust Officer, monitors the implementation of the Ethics & Compliance legal framework for the conduct of business, thereby limiting Program covering all Group entities. this risk. The Group decided many years ago to only employ individuals In addition, standard client-related risks are closely monitored: and have commercial relations in those countries satisfying a  with regard to dependency, the Group has several thousand 2 certain number of criteria concerning business ethics and legal and physical security in the conduct of business. clients, which to a certain extent enables it to resist market turbulence and reduce its exposure to volatility in certain Since 2011, the Group has implemented a solution for measuring sectors. The client portfolio consists of both a large number of and monitoring conversations on Group brands on social media. entities from the public sector and a large number of entities Internal social media are also monitored in order to best respond from the private sector, from a wide spread of diversified to employee comments. Finally, a social media code of conduct markets. Exposure to risks of commercial dependency is was also drafted to strengthen governance rules covering the therefore limited; activities of Group employees on internal and external social media. It is freely available on the Group's website.  client solvency controls during the sales process help minimize client credit risk. In addition, the solvency of major clients, As a listed company on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global combined with the wide diversity of other smaller clients, leader in its business sector, the Group is frequently called upon helps reduce credit risk (see Note 19 to Capgemini’s by the media and the financial community to provide information consolidated financial statements); Furthermore, Capgemini on its activities. Therefore, to control and limit risks to its has introduced rigorous monitoring of accounts receivable by reputation, only persons duly authorized by Group Management age and a dynamic follow-up process; are permitted to speak on behalf of the Group.  Capgemini pays particular attention to assessing client The risk management systems set out below mainly encompass satisfaction and has implemented a rigorous client risks relating to employees, project performance, information relationship management process that it carries out systems and service continuity and significantly reduce the throughout the projects. This is a key pillar of the Group's Group's exposure to reputation risk. client loyalty policy, particularly for major client accounts. Finally, the Group prepares a comprehensive crisis management The Group-wide deployment of the Commercial and Contract plan to reduce its exposure to reputation risk in the event of a Management function ensures operational, financial, contractual major crisis. and reputation risks are monitored and mitigated throughout the contract life cycle. It focuses particularly on major, complex Clients and high-risk contracts. This program is led by the Commercial and Contract Management Department, created in 2016, which Risk analysis has implemented tools, methodologies, procedures and training Capgemini seeks to develop its market share and serves a large sessions, notably to help Production/Methods and Support client base, in a wide variety of sectors and countries. Department teams manage risks. The Group's biggest clients are multinationals and public bodies. The detailed list of the Group's biggest clients is strategic c. Operational risks information and is not communicated. Project performance The contribution of the Group's main clients to Group revenues (as a percentage of total revenues) is as follows: Risk analysis Despite the formal review and approval procedure for all 2016 2017 contractual commitments given by the Group to its clients, Top three clients 9% 7% suppliers and sub-contractors, difficulties with respect to project performance and/or project costs may be underestimated at the Top five clients 11% 10% outset. This may result in cost overruns not covered by additional Top ten clients 16% 15% revenues, especially in the case of fixed-price contracts, or reduced revenues without any corresponding reduction in For existing clients, Capgemini is potentially exposed to standard expense in the case of certain outsourcing contracts where there risks: is a commitment to provide a certain level of service.  excessive dependence on a single client or group of clients or More generally, the Group could be unable to control changes in a single business sector; its cost base, materially impacting the overall profitability of its operations.  client insolvency;  client dissatisfaction. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 109 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies Support Department to complement the upstream independent in the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee technical audits carried out by the Business Units. that all risks have been contained and controlled. In particular, In addition, the Group conducts specific reviews (known as human error, omissions, and infringement of internal or external “flying squads”) of projects in difficulty or potentially presenting regulations or legislation that are not, or cannot be identified in a higher level of risk. time, may cause damage for which Capgemini is held liable and/or may tarnish its reputation. 3. Business control Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more Risk management systems project financial controllers whose role is to: The Group has developed a range of methods, organized and  monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily the documented in its DELIVER methodology, in order to ensure the related production costs compared to the budget initially high quality performance of client projects. Project managers approved. Progress reports and management indicators are receive specific training to develop their expertise and obtain built into the monitoring process, which relies mainly on the certification levels consistent with the complexity of projects periodic analysis of estimated costs to completion and their entrusted to them. The Group continues its active policy of accounting impact; external certification of its Business Units (CMM, ISO, etc.).  permanently control compliance with contractual Project performance monitoring satisfies the management and commitments particularly billing and payment milestones. control procedures defined by the Group, with projects classified as “complex” subject to more specific controls. Internal Audit Employees also verifies the application of project management and control procedures. At the initiative of the Production/Methods and Risk factors Support Department, specialist teams of experts audit projects The vast majority of the Group's value is founded on its human considered high-risk or facing performance difficulties. capital and its ability to attract, train and retain employees with The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control the technical expertise necessary to the performance of client risks associated with the delivery of projects ordered by clients, projects to which it has committed. In particular, this requires a from pre-sale to acceptance and payment by the client of the last strong reputation in the employment market and ensuring fair invoice for the project. In a simplified approach, this process appraisal and promotion procedures as well as the professional differentiates between: development of our employees. 1. Pre-sale risk control The loss of talent or a team could also follow an acquisition or a The decision to commit the Group to commercial opportunities change in Group or entity management. meeting pre-defined criteria concerning size and complexity, In the event of an industrial dispute or non-compliance with local especially in Outsourcing (long-term commitments, sometimes regulations and/or ethical standards, the Group's reputation and involving transfers of assets, staff and the related obligations) is results could be adversely affected. the sole responsibility of the Group Review Board. For Figures concerning, in particular, the attrition rate, the utilization particularly complex projects, a review of solutions may be rate, changes in headcount, career management, the carried out during the final pre-sale phase in order to bring any development of expertise, building employee loyalty and the potential risks relating to the performance of these projects to level of employee commitment are presented in the Chapter 3, the Group Review Board's attention. Capgemini: People, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and In addition, the risk analysis is performed using a reporting tool Business Ethics. that consolidates at Group level all commercial opportunities and their monitoring. It also involves the operational validation, Risk management systems during the sales process, of the main technical, financial and The Group pays close attention to internal communication, legal characteristics of the contract. diversity, equal opportunity and good working conditions and to 2. Production and quality control the quality of its human resource management and employee commitment. Accordingly, an internal survey is conducted very The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper regularly aimed at measuring commitment and expectations performance of contracts that are applied throughout the life of among the Group's employees. This survey is an appraisal tool the project to ensure that it runs smoothly. and action plans are established based on identified results. The main policies include a clear definition of the roles and Furthermore, a human resources management information responsibilities of each individual, throughout the entire system is being rolled-out globally by the Group Human production process, regarding performance (use of Group Resources Department to ensure the comprehensive production methodologies, access to the expertise available in management of all processes concerning the management of the applications development centers), supervision (monthly high-performing individuals and enabling a uniform approach to inventory of all risky projects), client relationship management, monitoring performance, the career plans of our employees, the billing, estimation of costs to completion, joint oversight management of international mobility and succession plans, in a arrangements with the client, or, where applicable, independent manner consistent with the strategic objectives of the Group and technical audits conducted by the Production/Methods and the interests of our clients. 110 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control Group Management has published a Code of Business Ethics and The Group continuously ensures the security of its systems and oversees its application, to reduce as far as possible the potential their compliance with contractual commitments and any impact on the Group’s reputation. applicable legislative and regulatory provisions. It works to implement, with stakeholders, any necessary corrective or The Capgemini Group International Works Council covers not protection measures. only European countries but also includes representatives of the main countries outside Europe (India, United States and Brazil). To this end, the Group also has a program that seeks to The Group's key managers regularly attend meetings to present anticipate, prevent and mitigate cybercrime risks for its main changes in the Group and the main challenges facing it, and systems. This dedicated structure is headed by the Cybersecurity 2 discuss them with employee representatives in an open manner and Information Protection Director (CySIP). He reports, since and an environment of mutual understanding. January 1, 2018, to the Chief Technology Officer. Finally, as part of our “People Matter, Results Count policy, we This program covering exposure to cyber risks comprises three take account of: subgroups dealing with governance related issues (organization, policy and communication and awareness-raising) and five  the motivation and career path of our employees; operational projects (data protection, mobility management,  the implementation of varied and attractive career plans; access management, information system control and steering  the development of our employees through development and and strengthening infrastructures). The CySIP community training programs; includes cyber risk specialists in the following areas:  the respect and promotion of a good work-life balance.  CySIP Officers in the Business Units, for client project monitoring; Information systems  Chief Information Security Officers responsible for the protection of internal information systems. Risk factors The CySIP community works closely with the Data Protection New technologies (Cloud computing, “Bring your own device”, Officers responsible for the protection of personal data and etc.) and new practices (social networks, mobility, compliance. Software-as-a-Service SaaS, DevOps, artificial intelligence, etc.) inevitably expose the Group to new risks. The aim of this program is to become a benchmark for our clients, thereby strengthening the Group’s credibility on Digital Risks relating to all kinds of cyber criminality could lead to a loss and cybercrime issues. The Group’s personal data protection of data, delays in the delivery of our projects, service policy and organization were drawn-up based on the Binding interruptions at our clients, or additional costs that could impact Corporate Rules defined by the European Commission (BCR) and the reputation or financial health of the Group. validated by the CNIL (French National Commission for Data The information systems underlying the publication of the Protection and Liberties), for the processing and storage of our Group's consolidated financial statements also present a specific own data and that of our clients. risk in view of the strict reporting deadlines. Service continuity Risk management systems The Group has implemented business continuity procedures in Risk factors the event of a disruption to IT services. The main management IT Capgemini has permanent operations in approximately 40 systems are covered by back-up plans in different data centers. countries. The bulk of its revenues are generated in Europe and The Group is aware of the importance of internal communication North America, which are relatively economically and politically network security, and protects its networks via security rules stable. Its Rightshore® production model involves transferring a meeting the highest international standards, proactive controls, portion of the Group's production of part of its services to sites or a counter attack detection center operating 24/7 and specific countries other than those in which the services are used or in technical equipment such as firewalls. We have defined a security which the Group's clients are located and particularly India (which policy founded on numerous international standards and alone accounts for 50% of the Group headcount), Poland, China, procedures (our operating sites are certified ISO 27001). This Guatemala, Morocco and other Asian and Latin America countries. security policy and the back-up plans are validated, updated and This operating method may increase the risk of business audited periodically. interruption at a given production site due to an incident making it difficult or impossible to access telecommunication networks, a For some projects or clients, enhanced systems and network natural disaster, political violence in a country or region or a protection are provided on a contractually agreed basis. geopolitical crisis impacting several Business Units In addition, a large number of our clients have been identified as simultaneously. Economic instability can also be a source of risk operators of vital importance by their national authorities. for the Group’s performance and reputation. Certain clients will also be identified as Operators of Essential Services (OES) under Directive 2016/1148 of July 6, 2016, also known as the NIS (Network Information Security) Directive, or by Europe. The security of their information systems will therefore have to be approved by these national or European authorities and our Group, as a major sub-contractor, will also have to comply with these regulations. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 111 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control Business interruption risk also includes employee travel to Suppliers and sub-contractors countries that are geopolitically unstable or to dangerous regions where there is a risk to their physical integrity. Risk factors Capgemini business relies in part on products and services Risk management systems provided by suppliers. While alternative solutions exist for most The use of a large number of production sites across the globe of these products and services, the failure of a supplier to deliver reduces business interruption risk by favoring backup solutions. specific technology or expertise could have prejudicial consequences for certain projects. In addition, production systems and services provided by the Group to its subsidiaries are duplicated and covered by back-up The bankruptcy of a supplier, its takeover by a competitor (and a plans that are tested periodically. change in its current service offer/product range), a change in its sales model, such as the use of Cloud Computing for IT services, Telecommunications networks used by the Group are duplicated or a technical (fire or natural event) or human (error/negligence in cases where offshore production resources are deployed. In or malicious act) incident could generate additional risks. the event of a breakdown in the preferred (fastest) communications network between Europe and India, service Finally, the poor management of expenditure incurred with a continuity is ensured by tried and tested alternative routes. For third party, budget overruns, the use of unapproved suppliers example, the Group's Indian subsidiary has set up a Business and purchases that do not comply with equipment strategic Continuity Management (BCM) structure to ensure service decisions, can also generate risks. continuity in line with the Good Practice Guidelines of the There are no material firm commitments to suppliers other than Business Continuity Institute (BCI). those disclosed in Note 29. Where required by specific contracts, a business continuity plan The relative weight of the Group’s main suppliers, as a is prepared by selecting appropriate measures according to the percentage of total purchase volumes, is as follows: criticality of the service. Reviews and simulations are performed to test the efficiency of these plans. Certain entities have heightened security requirements reflecting specific client needs 2016 2017 and they are consequently certified ISO 27001 compliant by an Top three suppliers 7% 7% independent agency. Top ten suppliers 18% 14% Capgemini has implemented an audit program of internal and external risks at its operating sites, in partnership with an external consultant, covering environmental, health and safety Risk management systems issues. This program is being roll-out progressively, focusing The Group has signed framework agreements and contracts with initially on the Group’s main sites: 19 audits were performed in its suppliers containing clauses similar to those contained in 2017. Audit recommendations are then monitored by the contracts signed with its clients, in a bid to improve the integrated site management team. management of contractual risks and acceptance risks. These With regard to employee security, the Group restricts operations framework agreements and contracts clearly stipulate to countries able to offer satisfactory guarantees in terms of obligations with respect to delivery deadlines, service level and individual security. Work on client engagements in certain operating tests as well as penalties for non-compliance. The countries classified as “at risk” is subject to approval by the Group policy defines in great detail the supplier and Group Review Board. Rules and procedures have been drawn up sub-contractor selection process and method. Over recent years, for “at risk” territories in which the Group conducts the Group has signed strategic partnership contracts with a engagements in order to satisfy the demands of its major clients. diversified group of major suppliers in order to preserve its Specific contracts have been agreed with organizations independence and guarantee the sustainability of its services. specialized in managing these risks to assess independently the Furthermore, the Group has signed a certain number of strategic risk exposure in each country. Accordingly, some countries are contracts with major and financially sound suppliers. Finally, the subject to strict travel bans. The risk is reassessed continuously related risks represented by smaller suppliers and/or start-ups based on the geopolitical position and warning systems are used are analyzed and back-up plans are established in order to to inform employees of country risks. remedy the failures, if any. Strict approval criteria must be met before employees travel to In parallel, Capgemini has implemented a tool allowing for work in countries where there are no existing Group operations, worldwide procurement management and monitoring. This tool, and even stricter criteria apply in the event that employees are known as GPS (Global Procurement System), is used for the issue sent to countries considered “at risk”. Every employee required and approval of purchase orders. Capgemini has also to work abroad receives specific training. implemented an external resource management application, known as VMS (Vendor Management System), to manage Finally, a dedicated worldwide insurance program provides services provided by sub-contractors. assistance to all employees covering their security, medical emergencies and potential repatriation (see the Insurance These two procurement tools contain an approval chain that section of this chapter). ensures the correct allocation of costs to projects and permits their control and provides specific methods for financial approval. The centralized management of data in these two procurement bases enables us to control and better manage Group expenditure and supplier selection. Suppliers are selected by a specialized team based on rigorous procedures using multiple criteria, several of which concern ethical standards and sustainable development. 112 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control d. Legal risks Risk management systems Capgemini Group provides a range of services to its clients who The Group has a Legal Department with an established presence in turn operate in a variety of business sectors. All services in the main geographic areas. Its role is to monitor changes in relating to a given project are covered by contracts signed with legislation relevant to the Group's activities and provide training our clients as well as our suppliers and sub-contractors (software, in the main legal issues. IT hardware, host sites, etc.) when implementing tailored The Group has also adopted a Code of Business Ethics and an solutions. Each contract may be governed by specific regulations anti-trust policy and calls on a network of Legal Counsels who that could negatively impact our activities. Other factors such as double-up as Ethics & Compliance Officers and participate in 2 the size and geographic locations of the Group also expose it to identifying risks and train and monitor employees in order to legal and tax risks. guarantee compliance. Contracts In addition, drawing on employee commitment to the Group’s values, first among which honesty and trust, on a global risk Risk analysis management and mapping system at Group level and on the countries that have developed specific systems in response to The acceptance of unfavorable conditions, such as unlimited local legislative requirements, Capgemini continues to liability in certain circumstances, comprises a risk. Contractual implement measures and procedures to prevent and detect, in risks may notably arise when the Group's liability for failing to France and elsewhere, acts of corruption or influence peddling. fulfill certain obligations is unlimited, on the acceptance of In particular, it has introduced an awareness-raising and training financial guarantees, when there is no liability protection clause program, a code of conduct, an internal whistle-blowing system in relation to services affecting health and safety or the and third-party assessment procedures in order to satisfy the environment, and when the rights of third parties are not requirements of French Law no. 2016-1691, known as the “Sapin respected. 2” Law. Measures to ensure compliance with obligations introduced by French Law no. 2017-399 of March 27, 2017 on Risk management systems the duty of care of parent and sub-contracting companies, fall The Group has established a Contract Clause Negotiating Guide, within the same framework. which identifies clauses exposing the Group to risk and requires information to be reported to the Legal Department and its Failure to comply with regulations governing approval in the event of derogation from accepted standard our activities positions. Criteria determining when it is necessary to report to the Group Review Board have also been defined for contracts Risk analysis identified by the Group as presenting a high level of risk due to While the Group's activities are not generally regulated, certain their size or complexity. In this context, the Group Review Board of our clients' activities, particularly in the financial sector, is the only entity authorized to approve derogatory clauses sometimes require us to comply with regulations imposed on following a thorough review of the potential impacts. them, or in rare cases, make us comply with other regulations. Compliance with legislation Due to the nature of its activities, the Group must comply with various international and local regulations regarding data privacy Risk analysis protection. The Group could be held liable in the event of The Group is a multinational company operating in several voluntary or involuntary disclosure of all or part of personal data countries and providing services to clients who, in turn, operate belonging to a client or third-party. around the world and are subject to numerous and constantly Even if measures are taken to limit any negative impact on our changing laws and regulations. These mainly include, for activities or our reputation of non-compliance with regulations example, anti-corruption laws, import and export controls, governing our activities, failure to take account of regulations or anti-trust laws, sanctions, immigration rules, safety obligations an error in interpreting such regulations, would expose the and employment legislation. Group to financial and reputation risks. The sheer diversity of local laws and regulations applicable and the constant changes therein, exposes the Group to a risk of Risk management systems infringement of such laws and regulations by under-informed To ensure compliance with regulations applicable to its clients, employees especially those working in countries that have a the Group analyses the related obligations, which are then different culture to their own and to the risk of indiscretion or monitored by teams in the Production/Methods and Support fraud committed by employees. As stringent as they may be, the Department. legal precautions taken by the Group both at a contractual and This analysis also enables the identification of regulated activities an operational level to protect its activities or to ensure and, where appropriate, any necessary authorizations to be adherence by employees to internal rules can only provide obtained. reasonable assurance and never an absolute guarantee against such risks. In March 2016, with regards to the various international and local regulations governing the protection of personal data, the CNIL, acting on behalf of European Union data privacy protection authorities, approved Capgemini’s Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) defining the processing of personal data by the Group throughout the world, on its own behalf and for its clients. The BCR are a key component of the Group’s policy for preparing for the application of the new European Directive on the protection of personal data, that enters into effect on May 25, 2018. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 113 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control In addition, a large number of our clients have been identified as Risk management systems Operators of Vital Importance by their national authorities. The Cash surplus investment policy defined by the Group Finance Certain clients will also be identified as Operators of Essential Department and documented in the internal manual Services (OSE) under the Network and Information Security (NIS) (TransFORM), prohibits all equity investments. The proper Directive or by Europe. The security of their information systems application of this policy is regularly controlled by internal and will therefore have to be approved by these national or external auditors. European authorities and our Group, as a major sub-contractor, will also have to comply with these regulations. With a few exceptions, the Group holds the entire share capital of its subsidiaries and does not hold any listed equity Finally, during acquisitions or on the launch of a new business investments. line, the Group performs a focused due diligence review of the target or an analysis of the activity as well as applicable Capgemini has a share buyback program authorized by its regulations. Shareholders' Meeting. In this context, the Board of Directors decides (with the power of sub-delegation) the implementation Litigation of the share buyback program. The value of these treasury shares is deducted directly from Group equity and fluctuations in Risk analysis the Capgemini share price do not impact its results. Having developed a vast network of contractual relationships, Counterparty and credit risk the Group is not immune from litigation and legal action. Nonetheless, at the date of this report, there are no Risk analysis governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings, including any Capgemini Group is exposed to credit and counterparty risk in proceedings of which the Group is aware, that are pending or respect of its asset financial instruments, which depends liable to arise, which are likely to have or have had in the last 12 particularly on the debtor’s ability to fulfill all or part of its months a material impact on the Group's financial position or commitments (see Note 19 and Note 21 to Capgemini's profitability other than those that are recognized in the financial consolidated financial statements). statements or disclosed in the notes thereto (see Note 25 to Capgemini's consolidated financial statements). Financial assets which could expose the Group to credit or counterparty risk mainly relate to financial investments and Risk management systems accounts receivable. The hedging agreements entered into with financial institutions pursuant to its policy for managing currency A procedure has been implemented for reporting information to and interest rate risks also expose the Group to credit and the Group Legal Department on actual and potential litigation counterparty risk (see Note 23 to Capgemini's consolidated and other disputes and government inquiries. The local Legal financial statements). Departments also regularly inform the Group Legal Department of any threats of this nature. Risk management systems The investment policy authorizes the investment of cash e. Financial risks surpluses in money market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV) The Group Finance Department is responsible for the control, satisfying the “monetary” classification criteria defined by the monitoring and supervision of financial risks and is present in French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) and other types of each country and each Business Unit. investment (negotiable debt securities, term deposits, The variety of its activities and geographic locations exposes the capitalization contracts) immediately available or with Group to a number of financial risks, described below, which, investment periods, potentially renewable, not exceeding 3 depending on their materiality, can have a significant impact on months, issued by companies or financial institutions with a good the results and reputation of the Group. credit rating (minimum A2/P2 or equivalent). The Group also applies maximum concentration per counterparty rules. Equity risk The Group abides by similar risk quality/minimum rating and diversification rules when selecting counterparties for foreign Risk analysis currency and interest rate management hedging contracts. For the Group, equity risk would consist of unfavorable movements in the stock market value of listed companies in Liquidity risk which the Group holds investments. Risk analysis However, the Group does not hold any shares for financial investment purposes and does not have any interests in listed Liquidity risk for the Group could correspond to a temporary or companies. However, under its share buyback program, it may permanent inability to fulfill all or part of its commitments in purchase, hold, sell or present its own shares or enter into respect of its financial liabilities (including in particular derivatives in its own shares (see Note 12 to Capgemini’s borrowings and accounts and notes payable) and the inability to consolidated financial statements). find new sources of financing in order to maintain the balance between revenue and expenditure. Such a risk would also limit the Group's ability to finance its activities and the investment necessary for its development. 114 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control Financial liabilities whose early repayment could expose the The significant use of offshore production centers in India, but Group to liquidity risk mainly consist of the bonds issued also in Poland, China and Latin America, exposes Capgemini to respectively in July 2015 and November 2016 and some currency risk with respect to some of its production costs. commitments in respect of employee liabilities. Capgemini SE is also exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in respect of inter-company financing transactions Risk management systems and fees paid to the Group by subsidiaries whose functional The majority of Group financing is borne by the parent company currency is not the euro (see Note 23 to Capgemini's consolidated financial statements). and, as such, implementation of the finance policy is largely centralized. The Group adopts a prudent finance policy based 2 primarily on: Risk management systems The Group implements a policy aimed at mitigating and  prudent use of debt leverage, combined with limiting the managing foreign currency risk: grant of contractual provisions that could trigger the early repayment of borrowings;  production cost risks primarily concern internal flows with  the maintenance of an adequate level of liquidity at all times; India and Poland? A hedging policy is defined by the Group. Its implementation is mainly centralized at Capgemini SE level  the active management of financial liability maturities, aimed and primarily involves forward purchases and sales of at limiting the concentration of borrowing maturities; currency;  the diversification of financing sources, to limit dependence  financial flows exchanged as part of inter-company financing on certain categories of lenders. activities are primarily centralized within Capgemini and are In this context, the Company undertook a specific review of its mainly hedged (primarily using forward purchases and sales of liquidity risk and considers it is able to meet future scheduled currency); payments (see Note 21 to Capgemini's consolidated financial  royalty flows payable to Capgemini SE by subsidiaries whose statements). functional currency is not the euro are also generally hedged. Interest rate risk Risks relating to employee liabilities Risk analysis Risk analysis The Group's Income Statement could be impacted by interest Capgemini's consolidated financial statements may be impacted rate risk if unfavorable movements in interest rates had a by provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits negative impact on future net finance costs and financial flows covering defined benefit plans, which are also subject to of the Group. volatility. Furthermore, the Group could be faced with calls for The Group's exposure to interest rate risk must also be funds to make-up pension fund shortfalls, over a short or considered in light of its cash position. The liquidity at its disposal long-time period, potentially deteriorating its financial position. is generally invested at floating rates, while the Group's debt The main factors of volatility risk are fluctuations in interest rates primarily comprising bond issues is mainly at fixed rates (see and more generally the financial markets, as well as inflation Note 23 to Capgemini's Consolidated financial statements). rates and life expectancy. Risk management systems The plan assets of the main schemes whose risks have not been transferred to the insurance market are managed by the trustees As part of its financing policy, the Group seeks to restrict interest of each fund and invested in different asset classes (including rate risk by opting for fixed rates for a large part of its debt. equities). They are subject to market risk, as well as the The Group favors investments offering a high level of security performance of the management policy defined by the trustees, and generally floating-rates and as such accepts in the event of implementation of which can in certain cases by delegated. a fall in interest rates the risk of a drop in returns from the Under these conditions, plan assets may be less than the present investment of cash surpluses (and as such an increase in the value of pension obligations, reflecting a funding shortfall or finance cost differential). deficit. Changes over time in assets and/or liabilities are not necessarily in the same direction and are eminently volatile and Foreign currency risk can increase or decrease the funding asset/liability or the resulting deficit. Risk analysis Nonetheless, the potential economic impact of these changes The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk that could must be assessed over the midand long-term in line with the impact earnings and equity: risks arising in connection with the timeframe of the Group's pension and other post-employment consolidation process on the translation of the accounts of benefit commitments (see Note 24 to Capgemini's consolidated consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the financial statements). euro, and currency risks arising on operating and financial cash flows which are not denominated in the entities' functional currency. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 115 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control Risk management systems The €20 million primary layer of this program is reinsured The Group strives to strengthen the governance and through a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary and has management resources of its main pension funds. The been in operation for several years. investment strategy of its main pension funds, encompassing the management of assets and liabilities, is reviewed and monitored Property damage and business interruption periodically with the aim of reducing volatility. Increased life The Group has set-up an integrated property damage and expectancy is taken into account as and when it is recognized by business interruption insurance program covering all of its actuaries. subsidiaries worldwide. Its real estate policy is to rent rather than Group commitments to fund pension and other to buy its business premises. It owns little property, except in post-employment benefit shortfalls comply with local India where high growth and the large number of employees regulations. justify owning real estate. Certain risks are transferred to the insurance market. Capgemini's business premises are located in a wide variety of countries, and the Group operates at multiple sites in most of them. The Group has slightly over 360 sites with an average f. Insurance surface area of 4,100 square meters. Some of the Group's The Group risk management and insurance policy encompasses consultants work off-site at client premises. This geographic the identification, assessment, prevention, protection and dispersion limits risk, in particular the risk of loss due to business transfer of all or part of the risks relating to individuals, its assets interruption that might arise from an incident at a site. The and equipment under the Group's responsibility. The Group's Group's largest site, which is located in India, employs nearly strategy for transferring risks to the insurance and reinsurance 8,900 people in a number of different buildings. Client and market is to adjust insurance coverage to reflect the estimated supply shortage risk is assessed and insured to the extent maximum exposure to each of the Group’s major risks: the possible, based on knowledge of the materiality of the risk and maximum replacement value of assets to be insured, or in the the available offering in the insurance market. case of liability insurance, an estimate of its own risks and reasonably foreseeable third party risks in its business sector, Employee benefits and mobility insurance taking account of local insurance obligations, legislation and The Group uses specialist companies to train and assist its specific risks in each country and the emergence of new risks, as employees throughout the world. Risks concerning medical well as changes in major exposure under contacts signed with emergencies, personal security, assistance and repatriation of clients. Deductibles and retentions are set so as to encourage employees working outside their home countries, is managed Business Unit managers to commit to risk prevention and centrally at Group level via global insurance policies. protection and seek out-of-court settlement of claims, without exposing the Group as a whole to significant financial risk. Employee benefits insurance programs (death and disability, healthcare, medical costs, life and pensions, etc.) are tied to the The Group Insurance Department reports to the Group Finance different benefits received by employees and are generally Department and is responsible for the design, placement and managed by the Human Resources Departments in each country. monitoring of all non-life insurance policies. The management The Group Insurance and Human Resources Departments are and coordination of employee benefits insurance is overseen by jointly responsible for the management and international a joint governance body representing the Finance Department coordination of these programs. Decision are made jointly by the and the Group Human Resources Department. Group and the countries in compliance with the governance structure. The main objectives are (i) to comply with local Commercial general liability and professional insurance obligations, (ii) to comply with local legislation, (iii) to indemnity develop, standardize and improve current coverage, in This insurance program, which is key for clients, is designed, accordance with the different regulations in the relevant taken out and managed centrally at Group level. Capgemini SE countries and coverage standards integrating best local practice and all subsidiaries in which it has a stake of 50% or more (direct and the Group’s businesses, while optimizing alternative risk or indirect control), are insured by a worldwide integrated Group transfer/financing mechanisms. insurance program covering the financial consequences of their commercial general liability and professional indemnity, i.e., any Other risks damage caused to third parties within the course of our usual Crime and fidelity coverage (especially for information systems) business activities, anywhere in the world. This insurance is managed centrally at Group level via a global insurance program is structured in layers contracted with highly reputable program. Other risks including motor vehicle, transport of leading insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this goods, and employer liability for workplace accidents are program, including coverage limits, are periodically reviewed and insured locally using insurance policies that reflect local adjusted to reflect changes in risk exposure, due particularly to regulations. legislation, the Group's activities, new countries where Capgemini operates and changes in client contracts, as well as Pollution risks are low in an intellectual services business, and changes in the worldwide insurance and reinsurance markets. Capgemini is not specifically insured against these risks in any country in which it operates. Some risks are excluded from coverage or restricted under the general conditions imposed by the insurance and reinsurance market. 116 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control 2.5.4 Measures implemented as part of constant improvements to risk management and internal control systems a. Focus on the main measures implemented  roll-out of a global application for personnel management and in 2017 the implementation of a new performance management information system; During 2017, the Group implemented and deploys a number of  definition of a People Safety global governance system; measures aimed at rolling-out and standardizing processes and procedures within the Group and thereby strengthening the  overhaul of the management process for international travel; 2 Group's internal control environment. Among these measures,  a Group-wide international mobility program; the following may be highlighted:  a strategic review of talent with the identification of actions  validation of the Group’s risk management policy by the Audit focusing on management teams of the main units and the and Risk Committee; formal documentation of succession plans.  continued update of the risk mapping including the b. Constant improvement measures in 2018 identification and assessment of major Group risks; The risk management process will continue to be rolled out in  formal documentation of priority risk action plans, their 2018 based on the most recent risk mapping updated in 2017. validation and monitoring by the Group Risk Committee; Close attention will be paid to the consistency of the internal  formal documentation of a crisis management plan at Group audit plan (3rd line of defense) with the actions implemented to level; reduce priority risks.  global roll-out of a travel expense solution with direct As part of measures to improve risk management and internal payment by credit card and audit rules integrated into the control systems, in 2018 the Group will: tool;  roll-out an integrated compensation management tool  central monitoring of all real estate transformation projects, Group-wide; designed to manage operating risks and for financial control;  finalize a crisis management plan, to optimize governance and  an audit program of internal and external risks at Group notably reduce exposure to reputation risk; operating sites, in partnership with an external consultant, covering environmental, health and safety issues;  complete the roll-out of the Group IT network access control tool, extended to cover functional applications and  global optimization of Human Resource governance; integrating segregation of duty control rules.  definition of a global procedure and roll-out of a policy for sales-based compensation around the world, integrating a three-year plan beginning in 2015, aimed at aligning all Business Units; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 117 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Risks and internal control 118 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 3 Our commitment to Social Responsibility 3.1 A renewed strategy: 3.3 Social impact and digital inclusion 146 “Architects of Positive Futures” 120 3.3.1 Digital inclusion ambition 146 3.1.1 “Architects of Positive Futures” 120 3.3.2 Key drivers for Digital inclusion 147 3.1.2 Commitments and recognitions 120 3.3.3 Donations 147 3.1.3 Materiality approach 122 3.1.4 Group Ethics & Compliance 122 3.4 Environmental Sustainability 148 3.1.5 Responsible Procurement 126 3.4.1 Environmental Management 148 3.1.6 Cyber-security and data protection 128 3.4.2 Environmental Performance 150 3.4.3 Climate resilience 159 3.2 People and work environment 129 3.4.4 Engagement 160 3.2.1 Our key asset: people 129 3.2.2 Contributing to employment opportunities 132 3.5 Methodology and scope for 3.2.3 Talent management 133 non-financial information 163 3.2.4 Learning and Development: Capgemini 3.5.1 Methodology and scope 163 University 134 3.5.2 Grenelle II correlation table 164 3.2.5 Local and international mobility 136 3.2.6 Diversity 137 3.6 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, 3.2.7 Reward policy and incentives 142 appointed as independent third party, 3.2.8 Health and safety 143 on the consolidated human resources, 3.2.9 Labor relations and social dialog 145 environmental and social information included in the management report 167 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 119 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” 3.1.1 “Architects of Positive Futures” Firmly grounded on the Group’s 50-years old values, our everything we do. We will effect change through our ways of commitment to social responsibility has been both a guiding working and the personal commitment of our colleagues. principle and an area for continuous improvement and renewal To keep pace with our clients’ demands and stay relevant in the as we grow and consolidate our business in a broad geographical market we need to embed sustainability, both social and space. environmental, in the heart of our business. We are architects of As a provider of consultancy, technology and Digital services, positive futures, collaborating with clients and partners to build Capgemini Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility runs across solutions that promote environmental sustainability and help key areas where our activity has a clear and direct impact: societies address the impact of the Digital and automation creating a diverse and inclusive work environment, thus enabling revolution. our people to fully develop professionally and bring the best We have defined key objectives within each one of the value to our clients, reducing our impact on the environment and three pillars of the strategy, with appropriate targets for 2020. helping clients to reduce their impact, and contributing to the The three pillars are: development of the societies in which we operate with our specific capabilities and skills.  Diversity: building an inclusive workplace, attracting and retaining a diverse workforce to enable Capgemini and our Our approach is aligned with and respects all national and employees to thrive. Diversity is embedded in our HR and international laws and regulations, such as the fundamental Talent policies and processes; conventions on labor standards of the International Labor Organization, the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of  Digital inclusion: using our skills to help societies address the Human Rights (where we refuse the use of forced and child impact of the Digital and automation revolution; labor) and the OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.  Environmental sustainability: minimizing our environmental These principles guide all our national and international impacts, building business resilience against climate change, commitments on social responsibility. and supporting clients with their sustainability challenges. The strategy is solidly grounded on Capgemini’s culture and A renewed ambition leveraging three pillars longstanding ethics and values. Capgemini’s leadership has The tagline “Architects of Positive Futures” captures our renewed committed to embed these principles in our ways of working, social responsibility ambition: to be recognized worldwide as a decision making and thought leadership. leading responsible company, using our expertise for positive Our implementation approach is to empower people to become impact. Sustainability is a business imperative at the core of “Architects of Positive Futures”. 3.1.2 Commitments and recognitions 3.1.2.1 Leadership commitment to social In 2017, diversity targets were a component of the Group’s top responsibility executives’ variable compensation for the first time. In 2017, the Group appointed Christine Hodgson, Capgemini UK Chairman, as Group Head of Corporate Social Responsibility and 3.1.2.2 Public commitments Group Executive Committee member. Our social responsibility is embodied by our public commitments This nomination reflects the high commitment of the Group made in several relevant areas, at national, regional or global towards Social Responsibility in all its dimensions and level. acknowledges the need to lead our social responsibility action Our commitment extends beyond strict legal compliance to hand in hand with the business strategy. ambitious global initiatives in several areas, such as: The Group Executive Committee, the Group Executive Board and the Group Board are regularly informed of the strategy and the progress made towards our targets. The leadership will ensure strong sponsorship and exemplary stewardship for our goals. 120 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures”  embracing the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of  ‘A-’ in the CDP climate change disclosure, placing Capgemini in Human Rights and the fundamental conventions of the the top 22% of all companies and the top quartile assessed in International Labour Organization (ILO) refusing the use of our sector by CDP; forced labor or child labor;  maintained our position as a Gold rated supplier on the  UN Global Compact since 2004. The member companies of Ecovadis collaborative CSR supply chain platform; this program support and comply with ten principles in the  confirmed as a constituent of the EURONEXT Vigeo Eiris areas of the environment, human rights, labor rights, and the Europe 120 and Eurozone 120 indices (our performance on fight against corruption; environmental, social and governance issues places us in the  UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its Top 120 companies in Europe and the Eurozone); inception in 2007;  certified by BSI with ISO 14001 for the Group’s Environmental  2010 Guadalajara ICT Declaration on Transformative Management System, which was audited against the Low-carbon Solutions; standards;  Women’s Empowerment Principles since their inception  reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability in 2011; Index (ESI) Excellence Europe in March 2017; 3  Business Proposals for COP 21 in support of the 21st session  constituent of the STOXX ESG leader indices in of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework September 2017; Convention on Climate Change in 2015;  maintained the OEKOM Prime Status in the OEKOM  International Labour Organization’s “Global Business and Corporate Responsibility Index; Disability Network”.  continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index; We also follow international business best practice and  Golden Peacock Global Award for Excellence in Corporate guidelines, such as the OECD guidelines for multinational Governance for describing and self-assessing our operations enterprises. to improve our organizational performance; On Environmental Sustainability, we have also publicly  Standard Ethics Index having been assigned a high scoring committed at Group level to: Solicited Sustainability Rating (SSR);  setting approved science-based targets consistent with the  became part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe COP 21 2015 Paris Agreement to keep temperatures below in 2017 for the first time. the 2°C threshold (first IT services and consulting company to Additionally, various awards and certifications have been won at do so); country level, recognizing sustainable and responsible business  the six communiqués on Climate Change organized by the practices. A few examples of this are: Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders’ Group on Climate Change (Trillion Tonne 2014, Climate Change 2012…).  Top 10 “Recruteurs de la Diversité”, Mozaik Foundation and French Ministry of the Economy, France; 3.1.2.3 Recognitions and awards  Top 100 best Companies for Women in India, 2017 by BCWI (Best Companies for Women in India) and AVTAR; Capgemini regularly receives external recognition for our sustained efforts and progress in social responsibility.  Top 50 employers for women, The Times, UK; We also work with several independent corporate social  2018 Best Places to Work – Employee Choice award, responsibility and sustainability analysts and rating agencies. We Glassdoor, UK; take external analysis of our performance seriously and welcome  First Women Awards ‘Business of the Year’, UK; assessments by reputable third parties as this gives us a clear  Computing Publishers for Diversity project of the year reference position for our performance. Women in IT Excellence Awards, UK; The most significant global recognition and ratings received  “Diversity Champion” as part of Stonewall’s Equality Index, UK; in 2017 are:  Best Diversity Employer and The Times Top 50 Employers for  World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2017 by The Women, Canada; Ethisphere® Institute, a leading international think tank  EDGE (Economic Dividends for Gender Equality) certification specializing in research on ethical business practices (6th year at different levels in the US, UK, France, Brazil and India. in a row); REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 121 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” 3.1.3 Materiality approach We constantly strive to ensure our Corporate Social will ensure continuous improvement in understanding the topics Responsibility strategy is aligned with stakeholder expectations. that are relevant for them on which we will be required to take An analysis of the relative importance of social and sustainability action. aspects and issues was first undertaken in 2014 with internal and All Grenelle II indicators (article R.225-105-1 of the French external stakeholders. Commercial Code) are listed in the table in section 3.5, including In 2017, a series of internal interviews and workshops were definitions for indicators on which we do not report. For 2017, conducted with senior leadership in the Company in preparation we have reported on the indicators that are most relevant to our for the 2017 first-year Integrated Report; their inputs are business which are mostly the same as last year. For the captured in the materiality analysis in the Integrated Report. independent third-party certification purposes, we have started to select the most significant indicators as a preparation Materiality discussions with internal and external stakeholders for 2018 reporting under the new French law. (investors, clients, unions, civil society organizations…) in 2018 3.1.4 Group Ethics & Compliance The Group Board of Directors of Capgemini launched the Group principles, guidelines and policies: Ethics & Compliance Program in 2009 to further strengthen the the Blue Book ethical culture that has been a core part of the Group since its creation. As part of this program, the Group set up a global In our decentralized organization, it is essential to have a set of network of Ethics & Compliance Officers, and launched a Code of common guidelines, procedures and policies that govern our Business Ethics, Group Anti-Corruption Policy and Group daily operations. The Company confidential Blue Book, created Competition Laws Policy to reassert our values in every country in 1989, is the reference document for the whole organization in which we operate. All employees are expected to comply with enabling each employee, business unit and service to work the principles embedded in these three fundamental documents, effectively within a common framework worldwide. and to complete an online training course (e-learning) on each of The Blue Book contains: them.  Group principles: its mission, expertise, main objectives, In addition to demonstrating the Group’s deep-rooted values and values, Code of Business Ethics and collaboration principles; strong ethical culture, the Ethics & Compliance Program is a key  Group organization and governance; factor in attracting, developing and engaging employees by nurturing a strong ethical culture.  authorization and approval processes; Creating an ethical environment also strengthens our reputation,  sales and delivery rules and guidelines; contributes to develop new business and positions the Group as  risk management, pricing and contracting rules in presales a “Leader of leaders”, in line with our strategy. activities;  finance management, merger, acquisition, disposal and Ethics & Compliance organization insurance rules and guidelines; The managers of the Group’s operating units (SBUs/BUs) are  human resources policies, management guidelines; accountable for ethics and compliance in their respective units.  marketing, communications, knowledge management and IT; They are also responsible for driving the Ethics & Compliance program in line with local legislation,  procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and regulations and procedures. supplier selection; The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for  corporate social responsibility and sustainability policies. the Ethics & Compliance program across the entire Group. These policies, procedures and guidelines encompass the Group standards that all entities are required to implement, while The Ethics and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors complying with national legal requirements. reviews the program and its achievements annually (see section 2.2.4). Assessment of the level of compliance with these guidelines is a major component of our Internal Audit process. The Group Blue General Counsels also serve as Ethics & Compliance Officers Book is updated regularly and is available to all employees on the (GC-ECO) in their jurisdictions. They ensure implementation of Group’s intranet. the Ethics & Compliance program within their regions and liaise with the CECO. 122 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” Business ethics At the end of 2017, more than 184,000 employees had followed the related e-learning module, available in six languages. This The Group’s seven core values and ethics are among Serge represents approximately 92% of the Group’s employees at Kampf’s most precious legacy to the Group. Our longstanding year-end 2017. commitment to these values has shaped the Group’s reputation in the market and are a major asset for our business Loi Sapin II: see chapter 2, Corporate Governance – Risk performance. management and internal control for further information on legal risks management The Ethics & Compliance program was launched to sustain and enhance this commitment and, in so doing, to further strengthen our competitive advantage. The objectives of the program are to: Group Competition Laws Policy  develop a sustainable ethical culture, which reinforces In 2012, the Group released a policy to equip employees in integrity and fosters ethical behavior; identifying and avoiding situations that could violate competition laws. It is available in nine languages.  strengthen knowledge and awareness of laws and regulations, as well as internal policies applicable across the At the end of 2017, more than 175,000 employees had followed Group; and the related e-learning module, available in five languages. This 3 represents approximately 88% of the Group’s employees at  implement initiatives aimed at reinforcing prevention and year-end 2017. avoiding ethics and compliance breaches. New employees are expected to undertake to comply with the Ethics & Compliance program in 2017 principles set out in the Group Anti-Corruption Policy and in the Group Competition Laws Policy, and to complete the related Code of Business Ethics e-learning modules. The Code of Business Ethics encapsulates the Group’s ethical culture. It is available in fourteen languages. It has the collective Raising Concern Procedure and individual support of the members of the Board of Directors, The Code of Business Ethics states that an employee faced with a the Group Executive Committee and the Vice-President question or issue involving ethics or compliance should discuss community. Last update was made in January 2016. the matter first with his/her local manager. If the issue is not All Group employees are required to commit to the seven core solved by the manager, or if the employee is not comfortable values and to the principles enshrined in the Code. In particular, discussing the matter with his/her manager, or if other employees are expected to: procedures for dealing with individual grievances are not applicable, the employee may use the employee-dedicated  respect applicable laws and regulations; Raising Concern Procedure (RCP).  apply health and safety rules in the workplace and contribute Through the RCP, employees may seek advice and guidance on to the creation of a safe, inclusive work environment; appropriate action from the local GC-ECO, or even directly from  act responsibly in the marketplace, comply with applicable the CECO in Paris. Operating since late 2013, the RCP is applied competition laws and regulations and anti-corruption on a case-by-case basis in the countries where the Group provisions, avoid conflicts of interest and insider trading, and operates, in accordance with applicable legislation. provide accurate commercial and financial information;  build open, trustworthy relationships with clients, suppliers Commitment to Human Rights and business partners; Capgemini’s commitment to Human rights is deeply rooted in its  maintain the security and integrity of all Group’s assets and of values and culture since its creation in 1967. The Group has all third parties with whom we work; conducted its business on an ethical foundation, encouraging and enabling its employees and suppliers to operate within the  minimize the impact of our activities on the environment and same principled framework. foster social impact in the spaces in which we operate; and  ban the use of forced labor and child labor in our activities. As a responsible and ethical company, we comply with the Principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and At the end of 2017, more than 184,000 employees had taken the the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Code of Business Ethics e-learning module, which is available in Organization (ILO) refusing the use of forced labor or child labor. nine languages. This represents close to 92% of the Group’s employees at year-end 2017. This commitment is further embodied by the signature of the UN Global Compact in 2004. Accordingly, we support and comply All new hires are expected to undertake to comply with the with the ten principles in the areas of the environment, human principles set out in the Code of Business Ethics and to complete rights, labor rights, and the fight against corruption. Our the relevant e-learning module. Ethics & Compliance principles and program, our CSR strategy and all the Group’s policies (HR, Procurement…) reflect this Group Anti-Corruption Policy commitment and provide guidance on their effective application In 2011, the Group released a policy outlining its commitment to in every aspect of our activity, in every country in which we zero tolerance for any form of corruption. It is available in twelve operate. languages. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 123 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” In our decentralized organization, every legal entity has an For health and safety, the Group standards that apply to all our obligation to comply with these same principles as well as with employees are implemented and guaranteed by the local HR and local legislation, translating the Group’s commitment into Health and safety policies in all the countries in which we concrete local policies and actions that further improve human operate (see section 3.2.7 Health and safety). We expect our rights within our sphere of activity. suppliers and subcontractors to respect the same standards that apply in the country where we work with them, as stated in our Modern Slavery Act Supplier Standard of Conduct (see section 3.1.5 Responsible Procurement). Since 2015, Capgemini UK is taking steps to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in its organization and As a next step towards duty of care on this area, the Group will supply chains, thus complying with the “Modern Slavery Act” extend the risk assessment to health and safety through pilot legislation in the UK and strengthening our commitment to assessments within the supply chain in 2018. human rights not only within Capgemini, but across the supply For environmental risk, the Group has a Group Environmental chain. A transparency statement was issued, available to all Management System (ISO 14001:2015) in place that identifies stakeholders on the website. and manages environmental risks in accordance with https://www.capgemini.com/gb-en/wp-content/uploads/sites/ international and local regulations and in accordance with our 3/2017/07/transparency_statement_with_signature_latest.pdf Group environmental objectives and targets. This includes managing risks within our supply chain. We have expanded our It states that Capgemini UK has a zero-tolerance approach to risk management procedures in 2017 with a climate change risk bribery, corruption and human rights abuse, and does not accept assessment that will be rolled out to all Capgemini countries as that it is necessary for grave human rights abuses such as forced part of the regular management system approach (see and compulsory labor, slavery, servitude and human trafficking section 3.4 Environmental sustainability). to be part of today’s modern businesses and supply chains. Capgemini UK is committed to its employees, clients and Our approach suppliers to taking appropriate steps to eradicate modern In 2017, we completed a first risk assessment and mapping of slavery in the business and the supply chain. A risk mitigation our supply chain identifying the countries and areas that pose plan is in place since to ensure continuous improvement. the greatest risk. We proceeded by: Duty of Care Law  using the Group’s risk management approach for robustness As of 2017, the French law 2017-399 known as “Duty of care law” and consistency; (or “corporate duty of vigilance law”) sets an obligation for French companies which employ more than 5,000 employees  using external indicators on human rights (by independent worldwide to establish and implement a vigilance plan with the civil society organizations) to assess risk by country; reasonable measures taken to identify and prevent serious  using internal expertise in the Procurement teams, notably violations with respect to human rights and fundamental Category managers to identify high-risk categories; freedoms, and the health and safety of persons and the  focusing on the high-risk categories with high spend to environment, resulting from their activities, the activities of prioritize; companies they control and the activities of sub-contractors and suppliers on whom they have a significant influence.  collaborating with Risk & Insurance, Ethics & Compliance and CSR. In line with the Group’s international commitments, ethical standards and business strategy, a responsible approach to The first-year risk mapping encompasses three top risk countries procurement and the supply chain was launched in 2015. Our and three top risk categories. relations with suppliers and subcontractors are defined by a  The high-risk countries identified are: China, Guatemala and framework and set of rules aimed at working in a responsible India, based primarily on human rights and health & safety and sustainable manner, respecting our ethical commitments indicators. and complying with international and local regulations (see below, Responsible Procurement).  The top 3 categories identified as high risk, based on our operational footprint, are: Travel, Subcontractors and Following the duty of care law obligation to prevent human Property rent. rights, health and safety and environmental abuse, we have conducted a first-year risk assessment building on the Group’s Responsible Procurement framework and using the Group’s Risk Management approach and methodology, focusing primarily on human rights. 124 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” Following this first-year risk mapping, we will pursue our action The Steering Committee will monitor progress and efficiency of building on the existing Group values, ethics, guidelines, the undertaken actions throughout the year, and regularly procedures and tools to ensure effective results. Accordingly, we inform the Group Risk Committee on the evolution of the duty of will: care vigilance plan and mechanisms, on changes in the risk exposure and the emergence of new risks when relevant.  select the procedures among the existing ones that will enable regular assessment of the situation of subsidiaries, The vigilance plan will be implemented with the involvement of subcontractors and suppliers regarding the risks identified, all relevant internal and external stakeholders to progressively and we will create new procedures when needed; embed it in Capgemini’s culture.  set up a vigilance plan and prevention measures for continuous improvement focusing as a priority on the vendors Future steps identified in the risk categories and with whom we already We have shown concrete actions and results in all compliance operate within the SRM framework. The Group will also areas as published in this and in previous years’ Registration integrate the necessary guidelines in the relevant programs, Documents, externally certified. We will pursue and further our policies and procedures (HR, CSR, Ethics and compliance, Risk efforts for continuous improvement. and insurance, legal…); 3 On human rights, we will make sure to improve our vigilance plan  ensure there is an alert system to capture the risks and/or building on best practice developed by Capgemini UK within the breaches, by adapting and upgrading the “Raising concern Modern Slavery Act framework. procedure”, (see above), and involve social partners in the roll The Group will integrate the new rules in the relevant learning out of the updated process; and training programs to create awareness and foster adoption  set up the evaluation and control mechanism to monitor of the appropriate rules and behaviors in the organization. progress and efficiency (see section 2.5) and report appropriately, internally and externally. Lastly, materiality discussions in 2018 with internal and external stakeholders (unions, civil society organizations, investors, A dedicated Steering Committee will include senior management clients…) will contribute to our continuous improvement effort from Procurement, Risk & Insurance Management, M&A, and progressive embedding of the new obligations and approach Operations, Ethics & Compliance, Audit, Legal, HR, Finance in the Group’s policies, procedures and culture. and CSR. It will sponsor and ensure the implementation of the vigilance plan and the supporting measures and mechanisms described above. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 125 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” 3.1.5 Responsible Procurement Our supply chain supports both the delivery of our services to  ensuring supplier contracts have clauses relating to ethical clients and our day-to-day business operations. In these activities and sustainable procurement; we uphold our own exacting ethical principles and meet the  maintaining relationships with suppliers based wholly on standards of our clients. For more than ten years we have had a competition. purchase order mandatory policy and a central purchasing system (Global Purchasing System, GPS) which provides us with a Supplier diversity and equal opportunity is encouraged: we aim clear view of our procurement activity. to allow qualified small and very small businesses the opportunity to receive a share of the market. Our “eco-system” Capgemini’s Procurement function operates in accordance with approach with major clients aims to foster this and level the the Blue Book requirements, including Capgemini values, our entry barrier where practical. Ethics & Compliance policies, and our social responsibility and sustainability policies. It complies with all relevant international Our suppliers are expected to conduct their relationships with us and national laws and regulations. and our clients, commercial partners and other suppliers on a fair and ethical basis and in compliance with our core principles of Capgemini has currently has more than 20,000 active suppliers sustainability. These principles apply both to the products and and subcontractors active in its global system. We recognize that services provided and to the suppliers’ activities. a supply chain spreading across continents may some pose level of risk, and that we must exercise vigilance in respect of human Contractors’ and suppliers’ staff is expected to work according to rights and the environment. the same Corporate Social Responsibility criteria as our own employees; in tandem, we apply the same health and safety and Our commitment to supplier relationship is reflected in the diversity criteria to contractors and suppliers as to our own comprehensive set of guidelines on purchasing ethics, the employees. selection and management of suppliers. Our Supplier Standards of Conduct In 2015, Capgemini developed and implemented its “Supplier Purchasing principles Standards of Conduct (SSC) & Compliance Management In its purchasing activities, the Group considers environmental Requirements” that structures all the above principles for our issues, social impacts, human rights, and the fight against supply chain and also reminds that Capgemini operates to a corruption. The ten key principles of the United Nations Global “Purchase Order Mandatory” policy. Compact guide all of Capgemini’s activities. In other words, the Suppliers are requested to agree upon the principles that are set Group is committed to ensuring that we only work with suppliers out in this document prior to working with us; we are defining that demonstrate ethical practices and respect of human rights. the appropriate thresholds that will apply in 2018 to ensure Our procurement procedures are based on the following effective risk management. principles: Since 2016, we have put in place a group-wide supplier  treating suppliers fairly; management process. This process further enforces the SSC approach for new suppliers to the Capgemini Group and is  selecting suppliers based on value, performance, price and implemented into our operating countries. sustainability; “Capgemini Supplier Standards of Conduct & Compliance  selecting suppliers in accordance with a justifiable and Management Requirements” document is available here: transparent process; https://www.capgemini.com/resources/capgemini-supplier preserving the confidentiality of supplier information; standards-of-conduct-compliance-management-requirements  managing supplier risk; The Supplier Standards of Conduct list our requirements regarding Ethics & Compliance, social responsibility, sustainability and our Purchase Order Mandatory policy. Furthermore, our suppliers have the possibility to notify us of any known or suspected improper behavior in their dealings with Capgemini or by Capgemini employees or agents through a dedicated channel. 126 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” Supplier Relationship Management program The ultimate objective is to increase the value delivered to Capgemini customers by leveraging the capabilities of our top To develop a strong supply base and to drive the relationship suppliers through the implementation of a best in class with our sensitive suppliers and business partners, Capgemini relationship management. We benefit also from a reduction of procurement function has developed Supplier Relationship supply risk exposure as capabilities and environment of suppliers Management (SRM) program. are assessed within this program. Capgemini Group Procurement Through 2017 Capgemini has continued to roll out its new evaluates all aspects of suppliers’ relationship through the Relationship Management approach (introduced in 2015) to our “TQRDCE” criteria (Time, Quality, Responsiveness, Delivery, Cost, top suppliers globally, and locally to our high spend & business Environment). critical suppliers. This approach allows us to engage in an Experience has proven that successful and positive supplier objective way with our key suppliers to monitor performance, relationship management is valued by our partners and discuss performance improvement and maintain a close dialog suppliers. about future requirements and intentions. Finally, crisis resolution, deal making, and decisive moves are Supplier Relationship Management is one of the core activities of facilitated by SRM bringing facts and evidences to be built upon procurement and probably the one with utmost long-term as well as trusted & streamlined communication channels. 3 impact. As we go one step above transactional activity we need to encompass total cost of ownership, roadmap alignment, Our journey towards SRM is continuing with growing scope and operational performance, risk management as well as emphasis placed upon this aspect to strengthen governance and co-innovation and differentiation. For this, there is no better way performance across our supply chain. In 2017 we have held more than align our organizations, have clear communication matrixes, than 30 senior executive level meetings based on the respective to perform regular reviews covering all aspects of our supplier performance evaluation. relationship and performance and last but not least, build trust and executive relationships rewarding alignment, cooperation and problem solving in a win-win spirit. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 127 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 A renewed strategy: “Architects of Positive Futures” 3.1.6 Cyber-security and data protection The Group’s Cybersecurity & Information Protection (CySIP) The CySIP operational projects focus on three major topics: Program reflects our strong commitment, as a leading  Identity and Access Management to reinforce access controls IT company, to high standards of data protection for the benefit to applications and data, and Security Information and Event of our clients and our own organization and employees. Management to reinforce detection and response capacities; We comply with legislation, starting with the recent European  the Capgemini Security Operation Center (SOC) in Europe to regulations on the matter, and with regulations in all the provide monitoring services of our Infrastructures and countries in which we operate for our clients. IT systems; The Program's objectives are to:  BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) policy and tool to secure  deliver secure business services; access and data while using personal devices for professional purpose.  develop and maintain client trust for sustainable business growth; The CySIP Program has enabled numerous technical and organizational changes relating to Cyber security and  protect information and Digital assets in Capgemini; information protection at Capgemini Group, such as:  comply with the applicable law.  launch of a governance in all the SBUs with the creation of the CySIP Program was launched in November 2014 and is aimed at CySIP community of a hundred people; reinforcing Group competitiveness whilst anticipating new  ISO 27001 certification of our sites: more than regulations. 160,000 employees completed e-learning; Sponsored by the Group General Secretary, the CySIP Program  an incident detection capability implemented following the published a strategy in 2015, encompassing objectives, operational implementation of a SOC in early 2017; governance, a CySIP Baseline (minimum and mandatory practices), a data privacy strategy and a personal data protection  CySIP Strategy & Baseline regular reviews; policy. The strategy has been implemented in all Capgemini  accelerated migration to Windows 10 for laptops; entities in 2017. As of 1st of January 2018, the program is led by  encryption mail PGP roll-out for highly confidential internal the Group ChiefTechnology Officer. communications; The CySIP program steers three communities working together  CySIP 2016 status and action plan for 2017 reviewed and under the Group CySIP Officer: approved by SBU leaders; 1. the CySIP Officers in Strategic Business Units (focused on  Concord program launched to manage increased clients’ requirements and security of delivery projects); cybersecurity threats. 2. the Data Protection Officers in country (DPO: focused on Finally, maturity assessments related to the CySIP Baseline, data personal data protection and sensitive data confidentiality); protection practices and operational projects implementation 3. the Chief Information Security Officers (CISO) in Group IT are performed on an annual basis (in March 2017 and (focused on internal IT), recently supplemented with CySIP September 2017). They are now part of an overall Audit and Officers in Delivery entities and in key global accounts teams. Control Plan. Self-assessment is to verify whether mandatory Data protection and data privacy were a major priority on practices are implemented, and is complemented by technical the 2017 strategic agenda. Capgemini implemented its Binding audits and penetration tests, enabling the definition of the Corporate Rules on personal data protection (BCRs), covering yearly risk mitigation plan globally and for each entity. These activities where the Group acts as data controller and data measures enabled the Group to reach the objectives of the CySIP processor, approved by the French data protection authority, strategy, and successfully implement the governance and rules Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL), in 2017. in 2016, while mutualizing actions to prepare for the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) coming into force on May 25, 2018. The DPOs worked with the CySIP community and the relevant stakeholders to review internal processes, implement appropriate technical and organizational measures, identify the relevant tools and train employees in the new rules and processes. 128 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2 People and work environment At the heart of our business culture lays our most important Our priority is thus to ensure well-being at work, professional asset – our employees. As a responsible employer, we care about development, an open and welcoming environment that the people that choose to work for us, and we aim at nurturing respects and fosters diversity, empowering employees to excel the environment in which they can deliver their best and thrive. in what they do. 3.2.1 Our key asset: people Organic headcount growth December 31, 2015), and grew further organically since. In 2017, it grew by 3.4%. The average headcount is calculated by adding The Group workforce was just below 68,000 people ten years the average of opening headcount and the 12-month headcount ago, exceeded the symbolic threshold of 100,000 employees in September 2010, then grew again by more than 25% in 2015 divided by 13. 3 (following the acquisition of IGATE: 31,323 employees as of Total headcount Average headcount End-of-year headcount √ Year Number Change Number Change 2006 (reminder) 64,013 7.2% 67,889 11.2% 2010 97,571 8.1% 108,698 20.1% 2011 114,354 17.2% 119,707 10.1% 2012 121,829 6.5% 125,110 4.5% 2013 128,126 5.2% 131,430 5.1% 2014 137,747 7.5% 143,643 9.3% 2015 177,722 29.0% 180,639 25.8% 2016 185,593 4.4% 193,077 6.9% 2017 196,755 6,0% 199,698 3.4% The data above on headcount as of December 31, 2017 encompasses the whole Group scope (coverage 100%). The acquisition of IGATE in 2015, a strong organic growth, notably in Asia-Pacific, and the post-2009 economic crisis that affected Continental Europe significantly impacted the geographical distribution of Group employees. Breakdown of workforce by geography December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 Headcount % Headcount % Headcount√ % North America 16,034 8.9% 16,895 8.8% 17,112 8.6% United Kingdom & Ireland 8,656 4.8% 9,025 4.7% 7,977 4,0% Nordic countries 4,007 2.2% 4,067 2.1% 4,247 2,1% Benelux 8,307 4.6% 8,037 4.2% 8,011 4,0% Germany and Central Europe 11,342 6.3% 12,464 6.4% 13,970 7,0% France 23,882 13.2% 24,504 12.7% 25,446 12,8% Southern Europe 7,434 4.1% 8,075 4.2% 8,629 4,3% Asia-Pacific 91,584 50.7% 101,422 52.5% 106,292 53,2% Latin America 9,393 5.2% 8,589 4.4% 8,014 4,0% TOTAL 180,639 100% 193,077 100% 199,698 100% REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 129 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment The headcount of the APAC region which increased by 9 points Breakdown of workforce by age √: in 2015 with IGATE acquisition, primarily present in India, kept 2015-2017 evolution growing and exceeded the threshold of 100,000 employees in December 2016, and closed at the end of 2017 at 106,292. As a The coverage rate for the data below is 97.3% of year-end result, the headcount of this region has grown further in 2017 headcount. by 0.7 points. The average age of employees decreased slightly in 2017 to Germany and Central Europe also grew significantly in 2017. The 33.2 years (-0.3 year vs. 2016). This was mostly due to the ongoing difficult economic situation in Brazil explains the headcount growth in India where the average age is below 30 headcount decrease in Latin America, its headcount dropping by since a significant share of the hiring consists of young graduates 1.2 points between 2015 and 2017, in spite of the growth in (more than 40% of the total). The percentage of employees aged Mexico. less than 35 years is stable at 63.1% with a slight increase of the below 25 years category. Moreover, India saw a very strong growth in recent years with its headcount rising from slightly under 2,000 people in 2004 to Average age is lowest, below 30 years, in Guatemala, India, China, cross the 100,000 threshold in 2017. The country represents now Morocco, Vietnam and Romania, while the United Kingdom, 50.5% of the total Group workforce. Sweden, Ireland, Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands post an average age at or just over 40 years. Growth in Central Europe is due to the development of the Business and Infrastructure Services in Poland and Romania, 48% 47.8% 47.5% which went from less than 500 employees in 2004 to nearly 8,500 at year end 2017. Other Continental Europe geographies experienced growth in nearly all countries, and average growth was at 5.7% In France, the headcount also grew in 2017 and its share is slightly higher in 2017 percentage-wise. 22.9% 22.8%23.3% Breakdown of workforce by length of service: 2015-2017 evolution 15.3% 15.5% 15.7% 33.4% 31% 31.6% 9.9% 9.8% 9.5% 3.9% 4% 4.1% 25.5% 23.7% 22.7% < 20-24 years 25-34 years 35-44 years 45-54 years 55 years and + 17.8% 16.7% 16% december 2015 december 2016 december 2017 15% 14.8% 13.5% 14.3% 13.4% 12.8% Hires are people on-boarded into Capgemini payroll through the usual recruiting cycle during the period and accounted for in headcount (it excludes recruits made through acquisitions/big deals). < 1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years and + External hires december 2015 december 2016 december 2017 External Acquisitions/ hires√ transfers 2005 (reminder) 14,453 712 The coverage rate for the data above is 99.6% of year-end headcount. 2010 30,139 7,579 Evolution of average length of service reflects the Group’s 2011 32,713 3,158 recruitment dynamics over the last five years: the number of 2012 31,100 769 recruits exceed 52,000 in 2017 after a record high number 2013 32,369 193 in 2016 (above 53,700), explaining the high (56%) percentage of people with less than three years seniority. 2014 39,925 2,110 The average length of service in the Group stands at 4.7 years 2015 46,181 30,265 in 2017: plus 0,1 pt vs. last year. This varies according to the 2016 53,784 1,462 geographical area, ranging from 3 years in Asia-Pacific, driven by India (where most of recruitments are done) to 9.9 in the 2017 52,299 1,394 Benelux countries, 7.8 years in France, or 7.6 years in the UK. Coverage rate: 100% Length of service is calculated based on the hiring date by the acquired company, and not the date of integration into Capgemini. 130 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment Offshore countries contributed strongly to the recruitment involuntary leavers (individual dismissals and collective redundancy dynamic, with 63% of all recruitment in 2017. India saw its plans, retirement, end of short term contracts...). headcount grow organically by more than 4,500 people in 2017, representing overall close to 70% of Group organic net headcount growth. On the contrary, Latin America and especially Rate of layoffs Brazil shows a decrease in headcount due to the recession of its Group rate of layoffs in 2017 is 4.2% (vs 3.3% in 2016). The economy. coverage ratio is 97.7% of the year-end headcount. In an overall improving economic environment, the employee For some countries such as France, data on layoffs includes the turnover rate (the percentage of voluntary departures) increased termination of contract on a common agreement (“ruptures by 0.6 pt to 18.9%, being higher in Asia-Pacific, Poland, Romania conventionnelles”). and India (where the IT Services market is more dynamic) than in Continental Europe or North America. This rate remains, however, below the peak rate of the last ten years, which Rate of absenteeism reached 19.7% in 2007. The rate of absenteeism is expressed as the number of sickness days excluding maternity (sickness covers all absence declared as 3 Turnover rate such by employees and can cover anything from headache to surgery) vs. the number of total working days, less holidays and The number of voluntary departures in volume was at the vacation for the average headcount. highest level of the last past ten years, at around 38,600. The associated attrition rate is constantly monitored to ensure that it Group rate is 2.4% (same as in 2016). The coverage ratio for this remains in line with industry norms, using appropriate response analysis is 44.4% of the year-end headcount. initiatives according to the needs of each business line and The theoretical work hours are calculated by the business units geographical region. either based on the average FTE in 2017, or, when this data is not The total turnover rate for 2017 (100% coverage rate) was at 22.9% available, based on total headcount at the end of the year. √ (vs. 22.7% in 2016). It covers both voluntary (resignations...) and Breakdown of part-time workforce in 2015-2017 14.5% 14.6% 14.5% 9.2% 8.4% 7.4% 7.5% 7.4% 6.9% 6.0% 6.1% 6.1% 5.4% 5.3% 5.6% 5.3% 4.9% 4.9% 4.8% 3.6% 3.3% 3.1% 2.8% 2.6% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.2% 0.1% India France North Germany & Asia-Paciﬁc & United Kingdom Southern Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland Europe Countries 2015 2016 2017 Part-time staff is defined as any resource working less than the variation between regions: part-time working is most widespread normal/legal working hours schedule of each country of payroll. in the Benelux countries with 14.5%, followed by the United The coverage ratio for the above data is 97.7% of year-end Kingdom and Ireland with 7.4%. headcount. Conversely, part-time work is not widespread in India nor the The percentage of part-time employees in the Group decreased APAC, LATAM (except for Brazil) and North America regions. In from 2.8% last year to 2.6% in 2017. This decrease is primarily France and Morocco 4.9%, which is approximately 1,200 people, related to the growth of the headcount in India where no works on a part-time basis and the percentage has slowly part-time staff is reported. The graph shows a significant decreased over the last three years. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 131 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment Breakdown of workforce by fixed working hours A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a wide in 2015-2017 variation among regions. This study covered 98.1% of the workforce at year-end. 54.4% 52.5% 52.9% France, representing 12.2% of the total workforce in the sample, has a 35-hour working week. Around 30% of our employees have a 40-hour working week, which is the collective timetable of most of the countries in which we operate (the % share of the 40 hours per week category is primarily decreasing due to the increase in headcount in India with its collective timetable of 29.1% 30.1% 27.8% 45 hours per week). The 40-hour working week applies in Europe (excluding the United Kingdom, Finland and Denmark, where it is generally 37.5 hours) and North America. Guatemala and Morocco are on a 13.2% 12.6% 12.2% 44-hour working week, Mexico is on a 48-hour working week and India is on a 45-hour working week. 4.9% 4.6% 4.0% 0.3% 0.5% 0.8% 35h 36-39h 40h 41-47h 48h 2015 2016 2017 3.2.2 Contributing to employment opportunities As the employer of nearly 200,000 people, and with over  in the UK, we recruited 45 apprentices onto our Degree 52,000 recruits, Capgemini makes an important social and Apprenticeship and 12 apprentices through Arch who support economic impact in many of the countries in which it operates. students from low social economic backgrounds to reach their potential. We have over 320 individuals currently on an To reinforce access to employment for all, we take part in various apprenticeship program, 280 of which are studying for a educational and mentoring initiatives region, thus facilitating degree with Aston University. We have extended the access to employment for young people across the world in the apprenticeships available and now offer a level 4 program in growing Digital economy. Cybersecurity since November 2017. The first cohort of 23 As significant examples: graduates achieved outstanding results: 64% obtained a  in India, we lead a “Train & Hire Program” through which we first-class degree (over double the on-campus average). identify technologies in demand, provide training on the same  In North America, we partner with a variety of federal, state at our cost to candidate students, then hire them at the end and provincial organizations to attract premier candidates and of the training. We create fresh employment and value for regularly hire veterans, providing them with the opportunity society by training on skills in demand in the industry; to start a successful career in IT.  in France, we focus on providing both training and employment to the youth and promoting gender diversity in IT educational programs by partnering with universities, engineering schools, social innovators, NGO’s… In 2017, we partnered with “Innov’ Avenir” to promote IT technologies and careers among secondary school students for earlier awareness. We also partner with the national agency for employment (Pôle Emploi) and regularly reskill and recruit middle-age individuals for a second chance employment. In 2017, one of the several reskilling programs focused specifically on women to show our commitment to gender balance also in this specific population segment; 132 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2.3 Talent management 3.2.3.1 Talent management 3.2.3.3 Talent development Our Group Human Resources (HR) priority is to attract and develop the collective talent capabilities to design and deliver Providing all our employees with the means to develop their the technology enabled business transformation answering our capabilities and career, strengthening their employability, is a key clients strategic and operational challenges. success factor for a sustainable performance. Business requirements becoming more complex, it is We design and implement development paths enabling constant indispensable to combine the most relevant business adaptation to evolving client needs and bringing ad hoc support transformation design with the appropriate technological to projects with virtual work and learning solutions. The Group’s solutions to deliver sustainable business results. Talent markets Career & Competency Framework defines the development track naturally reflect such complexity: “liquid” workforce trends are for each role by professional family. now a reality, and performance today requires a combination of The Career & Competency Framework defines and describes a high industry expertise with state of the art skillsets. standard set of roles for our businesses, regardless of region, 3 The Group’s talent value chain adapts accordingly. Structured business unit (BU), project or account, sector or technology around the Sourcing – Developing – Evolving pillars, the specialization. Each employee is thereby able to understand the components of each pillar constantly change for improved breadth of options available at a glance. Each role requires core agility, continuous learning and employability and leadership. attributes, and a professional skillset applies for each role, independently of business location. 3.2.3.2 Talent sourcing All employees are accountable for their own career progression. Based on Grade and experience, each employee can define We are a people business, and as such support the business his/her professional development options and thrive in a wide needs with a robust recruitment and onboarding process. It is variety of roles, in line with personal aspirations, and career structured around three principles: preferences.  a strong talent branding, fostering our values and our  All employees are responsible for their own career business acumen, mirroring the Group’s performance legacy: progression. Based on Grade and experience, each employee ❚ every recruit is assessed in terms of competencies and skills can define his/her professional development options and to ensure a fit with the Group’s ways of working; thrive in a wide variety of roles, in line with personal  an ambition to hire diverse people that will develop within our aspirations, and career preferences. teams and bring their best in the most varied business  Each employee goes through regular appraisals, identifying environments: areas of strength and improvement, leading to development ❚ recruits are tracked for gender mix, and our plans to enhance his/her professional experiences and internal & external recruiters have signed the Group preparing the next career step. Diversity Charter (in place since 2013), thus committing to  A “Promote first/hire second” rule ensures internal support Capgemini in attaining gender balance goals, opportunities within career paths, and operational mobility ❚ we pursue our policy regarding the employment of people depending on our best Talents’ Performance and Potential. with disabilities, Our promotion policies and processes foster diversity and ❚ regional diversity recruitment policies and plans are set to gender balance. reflect the diversity of society and clients;  In 2017, the Group launched a “Performance Management evolution initiative” (currently in pilot phase) to implement a  the employee promise, a commitment to each new employee continuous feedback culture, simplified calibration processes to provide him/her with professional development and career and agile employee development tracking and follow-up. progression opportunities through client exposure and learning: ❚ we make use of digital channels such as LinkedIn to reach 3.2.2.4 Developing leadership talent in the labor market globally, Considering the business and people challenges faced, developing our leadership footprint, capabilities and behaviors, ❚ we reinforce our partnerships with major schools and both individually and collectively, are now a must more than universities to make Capgemini an employer of choice; ever. The Group’s Leadership Model defines the challenges in the current business ecosystems through six interdependent dimensions: La Niaque, Business Builder, Profit Shaper, People Developer, Active Connector, Agile Player. Accessible to all, these leadership dimensions define the requirements around the expected behaviors in each business and people context, fostering leadership capabilities development at all levels in the organization. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 133 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment Management and leadership assessment and development  mobility options and succession plans ensure continued activities are carried out to identify and continuously improve exposure of our VP pools to various business activities and the Group’s leadership assets. Leadership teams rely first on the practices across the Group, thus enhancing their 1,500 Vice-Presidents recruited, assessed, developed, rewarded understanding and ability to perform in transforming and promoted based on a global Talent Management policy environments; encompassing the Group Leadership model's six dimensions. This  this community is the first circle of “Leaders as Teachers” policy is implemented consistently across all operational units initiative aimed at fostering experience sharing across BUs and support functions: and grades;  dedicated talent reviews, targeted leadership development  a dedicated top talents pool has been defined in 2017 for all and talent acceleration programs are designed to fit their key Group positions. Appointments and talent management capabilities enhancement needs and prepare our key Talents decisions are managed by the Group Executive Board. for their next challenge; 3.2.4 Learning and Development: Capgemini University 3.2.4.1 A digital learning offer In 2017, we: At Capgemini, our success depends upon our ability to develop  focused on four areas tied to our strategic focus of Digital, our people and their expertise, which is why we prioritize our Cloud, Cybersecurity, Automation and new wave people’s competency & capability development throughout their technologies; careers.  delivered an end-to-end Digital Age Learning experience and Capgemini University leverages a rich history and is recognized matured our analytics framework to assess effectiveness; among best-in-class learning organizations to deliver capability  upskilled the L&D professionals to enhance their ability to building excellence required by our clients to fulfill their deliver global learning; strategic needs. Our values and collaborative, multicultural approach engages our learners virtually, locally, and through our  designed and delivered 1,632 new learning assets, a mix of world-class campuses in Les Fontaines (France), Pune (India) as responsive modules, curated content, micro-learning, quizzes well as our regional campuses across the globe. and assessments, personalization and a job-aid chatbot;  two digital platforms dedicated to, respectively, training Capgemini University and Group Learning & Development (L&D) (Social Learning Platform) and career management (Group align with our extended Global network to support business Employee Platform), currently in pilot phase; acceleration by prioritizing the right content to the right people at the right time. Our goal is to equip our people with the right  upgraded the learning management system (LMS) with a fresh capabilities to respond to the ever-changing needs of our clients learner interface accessible through all device types, anytime; and to provide them with ongoing employability and career  implemented the Regional Learning Center model in North growth. America, India and France; We formalize, package, and deploy Digital Age Learning (DAL)  enhanced our KPI framework to measure the actual business content focused on Capgemini strategic areas and industry value of our learning programs. standards. Our network of internal and external practitioners and experts 3.2.4.2 Measuring training delivered to employees use face-to-face programs, virtual classrooms, online  96% of our workforce (191,566 active employees) books & videos, knowledge management communities, participated in learning programs using a mix of channels. collaborative learning portals, enterprise social media, job aids, Considering that in 2016 185,833 employees took a learning and mentoring systems. We organize regular events such as skill program through the available channels, we managed to keep boosters, Co-Creation Challenges, and Hackathons. a high level of coverage (96% of employees in 2016) while at the same time the workforce grew. 134 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment  8.7 million learning hours were delivered √, including  the new Automation Academy for Software Engineers 6.6 million hours of global content (76% of the Group’s total certified the first 125 people at the end of 2017, and more learning hours), a significant growth compared to 6.5 million than 9,000 people started their learning journey; total volume of learning hours provided in 2016. Tracking and  Integrated Architecture Framework (IAF), in use by Capgemini reporting of learning hours is monitored by the global system and our clients, with 352 certified Architects; MyLearning.  certification program for new joiners in our Development and  3.8 million total hours of global curricula classroom learning ERP practices as part of our global onboarding programs, run (content that is identical for all countries, designed by the mainly in India but open to all countries; Group L&D and Capgemini University teams) have been delivered to 50,100 employees at one of our global campuses  1,000 Architects TOGAF certified by the Open Group (making or on work sites. Capgemini’s TOGAF community the largest worldwide within a company); 3.2.4.3 Certification  more than 900 successful Agile, ISTQB and ITIL certifications in France; At Capgemini, both internal and external certifications are an important part of the value we bring to our employees and  ‘Digital Age Learning’ certification program for L&D 3 clients. professionals;  the Brandon Hall Silver Award Win for the Digital Age Internal certification Learning (DAL) certifiable upskilling program for our L&D An in-house peer review process enables skills to be assessed professionals. according to clearly identified criteria such as experience gained, We are progressively shifting our focus to driving certification on knowledge sharing, use of Capgemini tools and methods, Emerging Technologies (Cloud, Big Data, Cybersecurity, DevOps) mentoring, and leadership. The process has three objectives: and on Emerging Skills (Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things 1. to create strong and recognized professional communities by and Blockchain). sharing information, knowledge and skills in specific areas; 2. to ensure blended distribution and graduated progression of 3.2.4.4 Professional development skills, both for in-house and client service requirements; and performance appraisals 3. to create a competitive edge for the Group and its Consistent and transparent assessment of individual employees, increasing their employability. performance based on a set of clearly-defined and explained criteria is essential for our people development. A common Certification is driven by related Group functions in close framework and set of rules is key to ensure fair treatment and collaboration with appropriate business units, Capgemini equal opportunities for all employees. It builds on the Career and University and Learning & Development Teams. Employability framework. External certification The performance process is driven by regular meetings between the employee and the manager, generally conducted in relation We encourage our employees who wish to pursue external to assignments, and at the very least once a year in a formal certification and support them through online, face-to-face, and setting. mentoring programs. This includes:  learning programs curated or designed in partnership with our Percentage of employees who had a performance and strategic partners (EMC, HP, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, career review between 2016 and 2017 SalesForce…); The coverage ratio in 2016 was of 93.3% of year-end headcount.  Java, Cisco, and Linux Professional Institute; 2017 coverage rate is 97.2%.  emerging technologies and their certifications, such as As of end of 2017, 86.1% employees had their annual Amazon Web Services, Google, NetSuite, Pivotal, and performance review. VMWare; The ratio has slightly declined consistently in the past four years  testing with TMAP Next, ISTQB and REQB; due to the recruiting dynamics: joiners in the last months of the  industry standards such as Six Sigma, Project Management year do not go through the performance appraisal process for Institute (PMI), ITIL, Agile and Scrum are also widely spread, lack of minimal period in the Company to conduct it adequately. and our Architects follow TOGAF certification by the Depending on local HR policies, business units may use different Open Group. criteria to assess the level of completion of the employee Certification statistics for 2017 are : performance assessments process.  2,165 newly certified Engagement Managers;  493 re-certified Engagement Managers, i.e. a total of 2,658. At the end of 2017 the total number of Engagement Managers stood at circa 5,500 net of the above additions, re-certifications and attrition considered; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 135 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2.5 Local and international mobility As part of the professional development path offered to each IAS focused on refining and implementing a new Target employee, Capgemini encourages employee mobility at local and Operating Model as part of the Group One HR strategy, creating international levels. At local level, we provide visibility on job a Center of Expertise at Group HR level and an integrated HR vacancies through the www.capgemini.com website, and shared services organization in India and the US. Underpinning internally through the MyMobility system. this was the implementation of a global International Assignments web-based tool to support fluid international As a global company, Capgemini is committed to offering moves within the Group. exciting international career opportunities to its employees and to serve our clients by assembling multi-national and The Group International Assignment Policy Book & Catalog of multi-disciplinary teams in a cost-effective manner. International Services sets out the general conditions that apply to all stays assignments are therefore an important aspect of our business abroad. All relevant information and tools are published on the and we have the ambition to increase international mobility Group intranet sites, including relevant rules & procedures and across our geographies, service lines and functions. checklists. The Group has a set of defined international assignment policies to support segmented mobility requirements for Short and 3.2.5.2 Health and safety on international Long-term project-based assignments, Senior Executives, Talent assignments and retention mobility and Permanent Transfers. Other policies It is our duty to ensure a working environment that meets our that support international assignments include Travel and Safety. standards on securing the physical safety of our employees. As Key figures in 2017: stipulated in our risk management policy and procedures, the Group has a strict approach on the countries/locations in which  22,000 employees travelled to over 100 locations; our employees can work.  based on 30 countries, notably from India, France, UK and the Netherlands; Assignments in countries considered “at risk” by our specialist external safety service provider are subject to strict rules and  main destinations: USA, UK, Sweden and Canada. require formal Group approved in advance. Safety measures encompass: 3.2.5.1 A Dedicated service: International  advice and specific training courses on international mobility, Assignment Services including e.g. an e-learning training course on business travel To enhance this journey and make international assignments a safety since 2010; great experience for our employees, the International  travel monitoring tool to identify where and when our Assignment Services (IAS) network of 150 team members employees are travelling to deliver alerts, provide practical supports the organization of international assignments through advice on local culture in the countries that our employees environmental safety monitoring, ensuring that a medical visit; assistance program is in place, addressing immigration needs (e.g. business visa or work permits), supporting the assignee’s  the establishment of a repatriation procedure and providing relocation and ensuring compliance with local labor laws and specific insurance coverage, to limit, as far as possible, any social security, payroll & taxation requirements. risks faced by our employees in case trouble breaks out in a country where they are present. The Senior Executive program supports the Group’s strategic mobility requirements and provides developmental opportunities to select groups. 136 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2.6 Diversity Ever since the founding of the Capgemini Group in 1967, Broaden diversity dimensions diversity and inclusion have been integral to our business,  Deliver diversity roadmap and cascade goals (aligned to local workplace, and people culture. Embedded in the HR and Talent regulatory requirements). policies, in the Code of Business Ethics and reflected in Group and local policies, diversity and inclusion are at the heart of our  Define actions to accelerate progress in achieving gender core values of honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, fun, modesty targets, understand roadblocks, set process guidelines and and team spirit, established by Group founder Serge Kampf. The measurements. principles of diversity and inclusion shape how we work with our colleagues, clients, partners and suppliers around the world. Reward and recognition  Promote diversity networks and support global sponsorship With almost 200,000 people in more than 40 countries, and investment. Capgemini is proud to represent nearly 130 nationalities and its cultural diversity. Our holistic definition of diversity extends  Promote Capgemini as a champion of diversity through beyond gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, industry awards. 3 ethnicity, race, age and religion. Capgemini views diversity as everything that makes us who we are as an organization, 3.2.6.2 Unconscious bias including our social background, our experiences in life and work, Exposing unconscious bias, the tendency for individuals to favor our communication styles and even our personality. These people like themselves, is critical to the promotion of diversity dimensions contribute to the type of diversity we value the most: and the effective inclusion of all forms of diversity within any diversity of thought. organization. Capgemini’s success, brand identity and client experience are Consequently, together with an external expert, Our University, determined by the talented people who work for the Group. We Group Talent, Group CSR and Women@Capgemini have believe that people perform better when they are empowered developed an Unconscious Bias training module which has been to be their authentic self at work and feel included and deployed and run since 2013. welcomed in the work environment. Cultivating an inclusive environment and ensuring that every voice of Capgemini is heard In 2017: and considered maximizes our capability to win and deliver  580 Vice-Presidents attended the Unconscious Bias webinar business and makes Capgemini a welcoming place to work. across all regions; Our Group Global Charter for Diversity and inclusion enshrines  272 HR professionals attended a dedicated webinar the Group’s commitment and is available for all our employees (October 2017). on the intranet. The webinar, along with several complementary e-learning Our differences are a source of creativity, innovation and modules are available for every employee in the Group’s L&D inspiration. Embracing diversity and inclusion equips us to reflect online catalog. today’s global marketplace in the communities where we HR and L&D teams promote the regular use of these resources operate, enables us to generate new ideas and anticipate market to raise awareness and foster a more inclusive, de-biased trends as thought leaders in our chosen markets, and supports organization. us in better understanding the challenges of our clients, partners and suppliers. We believe this will enhance the employee experience around the Group, create greater opportunities for 3.2.5.3 Gender balance sustainable business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a global For Capgemini, gender balance is both an obligation and an employer of choice. opportunity: as a large global organization, we bear a We make every effort to adapt to the needs of our people with a responsibility for advancing women in the organization, and we wide range of personal circumstances and to provide them with recognize the fact that having more women at all levels of a work environment which encourages their development. In a responsibility is a competitive advantage. number of countries where this it is allowed, employee data is Being an employer of choice for talented men and women is vital monitored according to criteria such as socio-cultural group, age if we are to unleash the full potential of our Group and deliver group and different abilities, among other. Diversity the best results for our clients, partners and our stakeholders in performance indicators are also included in the annual HR audit. general. It is a well-recognized fact that mixed teams bring innovation and value, create a more inclusive environment, 3.2.6.1 Our approach to diversity improve employee engagement and foster collaboration. Capgemini pursues the journey aimed at improving gender Foster a culture of inclusion balance. A joint effort led by HR/Talent, CSR and the core team  Communicate inclusive behaviour expectations and personal of Women@Capgemini is aimed at accelerating gender balance performance indicators. within the Group and achieving our targets.  Engage leadership to embrace all dimensions of diversity and grow an inclusive culture. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 137 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment Key achievements in 2017:  implementation of a gender balance KPI on Group top  dedicated talent programs for management-level executives’ 2017 variable compensation; high-potential women implemented in most service lines and  women in Executive Leadership Teams progressed to 20% (vs in Finance; 15% YE 2016);  EDGE certification achieved in several large countries and  all service lines and major countries have implemented a regions since 2016: North America, France, UK, Brazil, India… gender balance action plan; Breakdown of workforce by gender √: changes in 2015-2017 The coverage for the data below is 99.1% of the year-end Overall gender breakdown mirrors, for most part, the headcount. information technology sector, which tends to attract engineering graduates, predominantly male is most geographies. The percentage of women in Capgemini's workforce continued The business and geographical breakdown sheds light on the to rise steadily, reaching 31.4% in 2017, an increase of 1,1 point Group's gender balance. over 2016 following a 1.9-point improvement over the last two years. Female presence in the workforce is driven by three types of business: Women representation differs across the Group, depending on the type of activity (44.5% in Business services versus 24% in  Financial Services (33%); Infrastructure) and, to a lesser extent, on the country mix (above  Consulting Services (38.8%); and Group average in Asia-Pacific and Latin America but below 20% in Benelux).  Business Services (44.5%), displaying the highest percentages of women. 71.2% 69.7% 68.6% On hiring, the overall rate is 35.2% women (on 96.8% of the total population), an effort to be sustained to further improve gender balance. On retention, women’s voluntary attrition rate of 19.6% is aligned with male attrition rate overall. However, moving up in 28.8% 30.3% 31.4% the pyramid, there is a clear progressive decline in female presence, requiring sustained action to increase the share of women, currently of 40% at early grades, falling to a 13% at senior management level. Female Male december 2015 december 2016 december 2017 2017 voluntary attrition 2017 voluntary attrition Women attrition Men attrition North America 17.1% 14.5% United Kingdom & Ireland 13.4% 14.3% Nordic countries 22.7% 20.1% Benelux 12.3% 12.7% Germany and Central Europe 22.2% 23.8% France 15% 17.1% Southern Europe 11.0% 13.6% Asia-Pacific 21.9% 22.5% Latin America 31.4% 40.3% On development, the Group has focused on fostering women in presence despite its recent expansion to other countries and leadership, moving from a promotion rate of 18% in E and sectors (notably Infrastructure services), where women’s F grades at the top of the pyramid in 2015 towards a target of presence in the workforce is much weaker. more than 20% in 2018. In addition to this, the percentage of women is increasing in The increase in female workforce is partly due to strong growth some geographies like in India (+1.7 point, now at 32.5%) which in recent years of Business Services (Business Process significantly contributes to improve Group gender balance given Outsourcing), an activity where the proportion of female India’s overall size of workforce, or Poland which displays a workforce can reach 50%, and traditionally attracts more female 56.3% of women in workforce. workers. BSv has managed to sustain this significant female 138 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment The countries where BSv is developing strongly bring in a Finally, the significant headcount growth in Consulting Services, significant proportion e of women into the Group. Poland and traditionally recruiting in a more gender diverse talent pool, China both exceed the 55% mark for women in the workforce. contributes to the Group’s gender balance with a 39% share for Guatemala, in which BSv is also growing strongly, have 49% of women in the workforce. women in the workforce. Conversely, the percentage of women is less than 25% in eleven countries covering 12% (-10 points) of the workforce in scope, and notably Benelux and the USA. Proportion of women in executive positions by geography 25 23.5% 3 20 19.3% 19.0% 18.7% 18.2% 15.6% 15.8% 15.5% 15.0% 14.9% 15 13.5% 12.9% 12.5% 10.8% 10 5 0 a Ki C Nor x C Ge ce ut fic a a 17 16 5 4 ic n lu h Eu ern ic di 01 01 er & gdo ou d ne en rm an ro ac er In 20 20 Am Ire m la nt ic rie Be tra a Fr pe -P i Am l2 l2 l E ny al To To nd So l s As To To ta ta th te ur & ia La t ta or d op tin N U ni e Women in executive positions The proportion of women in the executive grades in 2017 We have a clear picture of gender balance in the talent pool increased despite the workforce mix’s evolution. provided by the strategic talent reviews undertaken throughout the Group and ranging from CEO-led reviews of the leadership While the proportion of E and F in India has again positively teams to Business Unit level reviews identifying top talents at all evolved, as the India E&F ratio is currently below Group average, levels and grades. All Business Units are required to identify and the volume impact of India is reducing the overall positive sustain a gender balanced management talent pool and pipeline. evolution. India excluded, the ratio would be at 16.4%. To support these efforts, local management training courses, The ratio remains lower than the total percentage of women in mentoring by senior executives, and increased exposure and the Group’s workforce, across all grades. Continued growth of visibility are provided to women identified as top talents, the headcount in countries with a low percentage of women in thereby advancing women’s presence in the Vice-President the talent pool and engineering-trained graduates impacts community. heavily the overall women in workforce ratio. At the end of 2016, 21.3% of employees promoted to 3.2.6.4 Outfront: the global LBGTQ+ and Allies “Vice-President” were women, a percentage above 20% for the second year in a row, even though the 2016 percentage was network slightly lower than in 2015 by 1.9 point. Going forward, the For more than ten years now, North America has championed promotion cycle will take place at mid-year and the next the Employee Resource Group (ERG) LGBTQA+ (Lesbian, Gay, promotion cycle will happen in June 2018. Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Allies, and others) employees at Capgemini, aiming at creating a safe and progressive space for the LGBTQA+ community and every employee who wishes openly to support and foster, either as an LGBTQ+ individual or as an ally, diversity and inclusion in the workplace. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 139 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment Since then, numerous sites and countries have joined the The network also empowers its members to act as role models, network, first across the US and Canada, then in the UK and in inside and outside of the Company. Now as a global network, 2017 successfully extended to APAC region, including India, to OUTfront will pursue its mission of empowering, coaching, cover more than 10 countries, and adding more each year. raising awareness and nurturing our inclusive culture for a richer diversity in every country in which we operate. Started by three committed individuals, OUTfront LGBTQA+ gathers more than 400 employees across the globe representing all areas of our business. 3.2.6.5 Disability and inclusion in the workplace India has reached a significant milestone in the Group’s At Capgemini, we firmly believe that people with a disability, commitment to create a safe, discrimination-free and welcoming visible or invisible, bring great value and a unique, specific space for all our colleagues, regardless of their sexual perspective to our business, while reflecting the diversity and preferences by creating its LGBTQA+ network. By doing so, we variety of the society we live in. remain true to our promise of a committed Group to diversity, We comply with national and international legal and labor inclusion and equal opportunities for all. requirements on this topic (e.g. quotas of people with disability In addition to this, Group CSR acknowledged the need to to be recruited in countries such as France, the Netherlands…) enshrine this commitment at global level: the global OUTfront and recruit these individuals convinced that their presence network started operating in H2, by connecting more strongly contributes to more diverse and effective teams. the existing country / region networks and providing advice and Key achievements in 2017 are: support to the colleagues who wish to create, in their country, a similar network.  in 2017, Capgemini joined the International Labour Organization’s “Global Business and Disability Network”, a The networks operate internally in compliance with our network of multinational enterprises, employers’ principles, values, and the ethics and compliance rules. The level organizations, business networks and disabled persons’ of disclosure of sensitive personal data at a local level remains organizations who share the conviction that people with fully in control of the individuals and is defined with the local HR disabilities have talents and skills that can enhance virtually community’s guidance as support in accordance with applicable any business; local legislation. There is no personal data collected at global  by signing the Charter, we commited to further fostering level at any time through the network. inclusion of disability in the workplace following national The local networks empower a strong, connected community, standards and international best practice, and to share our which contributes to: expertise in IT to improve disabled people’s quality of life;  recruit, develop, and retain LGBTQA+ individuals by fostering  in France, we pursue our efforts of integrating people with a a safe environment within Capgemini; disability by recruiting 3% in 2017 (two times the average in  increase awareness and understanding of the LGBTQA+ the IT industry in France) and by funding a dedicated internal community, including the specific challenges it may face, thus department for promoting disability in the workplace increasing inclusiveness; (Mission Handicap). We partner with organizations, governmental and non-governmental, to share best practice  demonstrate the synergies between our LGBTQA+ community and contribute to local and national initiatives aiming at and those of our clients, therefore deepening client higher levels of inclusiveness in the workplace. We also relationships; successfully ran again “Défi H”, a technology innovation and  drive market-facing awareness of the Capgemini brand in the mentoring program led in partnership with engineering marketplace, aligning closer with our clients, technology and schools around a technology/IT project aimed at improving business partners in new ways of driving relationships; the lives of people with disabilities.  raise Capgemini’s profile and employer branding as a safe and For more information, see: welcoming place to be out, or an ally, at work. https://www.capgemini.com/fr-fr/mission-handicap/; An important part of the network’s mission is to embark and coach business stakeholders (and as a priority, leadership teams, the HR and recruitment communities) so that the allies network becomes ever broader, spreading a strong inclusiveness message. 140 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment  in North America, equal employment opportunity and  in Poland, we are part of the “Come Closer to Disability Task affirmative action plans are in place for individuals with Force”, a cross-industries network fostering better education disabilities, Vietnam-era and special disabled and other and employment for people with disabilities. covered veterans in all our US offices; Number of employees in the Group with a disability in 2015-201 1,591 1,468 1,458 3 544 535 483 502 428 433 215 177 162 150 114 123 114 132 90 95 79 70 0 1 3 17 20 23 3 2 2 India France North Germany & Asia-Paciﬁc & United Kingdom Southern Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland Europe Countries 2015 2016 2017 A disability is defined as anything preventing or limiting someone  encouraging our people to keep a good balance between to participate to corporate, social life due to a long term or work and private life; definitive reduction of his/her mental or physical capabilities.  supporting the health and well-being of our employees ; and These figures reflect both voluntary and legal declarations depending on countries and their respective disability disclosure  offering a sound and fair working environment where our laws and policies. people can develop and flourish. In 2017 the Group employed a total of 1,458 people with Capgemini will not tolerate any form of professional disabilities, of whom 33.1% are in France and 29.7% are in the discrimination in the workplace. Discrimination can take UK & Ireland. two forms, direct and indirect. Direct discrimination occurs when someone is treated less favorably, for example on grounds of The coverage rate for the data above is 89.0% of year-end their gender, race, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation. headcount, some countries being excluded from the scope for Indirect discrimination occurs when a condition or rule is applied legal reasons due to the confidentiality of this employee which disqualifies a large proportion of one group from an information. activity and there is no genuine reason for imposing that condition. 3.2.6.6 Measures against discrimination A “grievance escalation process” is in place in all countries where In all the countries where we operate, the Group not only the Group is present. This process enables the escalation of any complies with local labor legislation and international labor complaint from our employees who feel discriminated against in regulations but also with our own Charter championing diversity any form. Each claim is investigated fully, and disciplinary actions and inclusion. By virtue of our commitment to the principles of can be taken if discrimination is proven. the fundamental conventions on the labor standards of the In addition to this, the Nordic countries and India are significant International Labor organization and the Principles of the examples of units with robust policies and procedures in place to 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights including the educate employees on inappropriate conduct at work, as well UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we are the relevant alert mechanisms. committed to:  recruiting and retaining talented individuals from different backgrounds ;  treating individuals with respect and treated fairly;  ensuring our working environment is free from all forms of harassment or abuse; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 141 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2.7 Reward policy and incentives The Group’s remuneration policy is based on shared principles, for shares. After authorization was granted by shareholders, a applied in a decentralized way and tailored to local job market new international plan was launched in 2012 covering all conditions and regulations. This policy aims to: employees of the 19 countries, again successful, with 12,000 employees subscribing.  attract and retain talent;  reward individual and collective performance with a As the 2009 plan ended in December 2014, a new international remuneration model that is motivating yet flexible; plan was launched in 2014 successfully with close to 17,000 subscribers joining. These two active plans have enabled  be fair and consistent with the Group’s financial and our employees to be amongst the Group’s main shareholders. operational targets. In 2017, the latest ESOP plan garnered even higher engagement Where local rules permit, employees can select the components among the eligible employees, with 28,782 shareholders. As a of their remuneration package from a predefined package and in result, employee shareholding stands at 4.61% of total capital. some countries, can choose to enhance benefits through additional employee contributions. This provides employees with 3.2.7.3 Allocation of share-based incentive additional flexibility, enabling them to reconcile their financial schemes and personal situations in the best possible way. Capgemini S.E. has allocated share-based instruments (previously Employee benefits are provided that are market-competitive and stock options and performance shares since 2009) on a regular respect legal requirements in all jurisdictions in which we basis in line with its corporate governance rules. operate. 96% of the population is covered by Medical Insurance and 97% of the population has life insurance coverage, which is These allocations are made selectively to reward employee often bundled with an Accidental Death and Dismemberment loyalty and exceptional contributions to company sales, insurance. production, innovation, specific successful initiatives, or employees who have performed as powerful transformation agents. This may be any employee in the Group. This is an 3.2.7.1 Leadership compensation exceptional reward mechanism and as such is not a component Vice-President and senior executive compensation schemes are of the general remuneration policy. reviewed and authorized at the Group level for both fixed salaries The Board of Directors allocated a certain number of stock and variable components. The principles of compensation options to 2,298 beneficiaries under the sixth plan, and to schemes for other employees, which are locally designed and 3,918 beneficiaries under the performance shares plans. The managed, are subject to Group approval with the intent to align Management Report, presented at each Capgemini S.A. schemes to favor mobility and ensure consistency and fairness. Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly breakdown of The minimum salaries applied by the Group in each country the performance share allocations. always exceed or are equal to the legal minimum wage in force in In parallel, stock options granted to executive corporate officers the country concerned and are sometimes higher by a very form a very low percentage of the total options distributed. significant proportion. Salary increase guidelines are also Under the fifth and sixth plans, 1.1% of the total number of reviewed and approved at Group level. options allocated was awarded to executive corporate officers, Profit-sharing is available to employees pursuant to the local and no options are exercisable as all plans are now closed. regulations applicable in the country. Regarding performance shares, resolutions set a limit of 5% or The evolution of compensation (which can be found in Note 6 to 10% to be allocated to the Group leadership team and the the consolidated financial statements of the Registration volume effectively allocated represented 3% of the total grants Document) is subject to regular analysis as compensation costs of all performance share plans since 2009. Moreover, represent approximately 61% of the Group revenue. A quarterly share-based instruments are not allocated on an automatic or analysis is made of the average compensation cost across annual basis. SBUs/countries to evaluate the impact of staff movements Detailed information regarding performance shares allocated by (recruits, leavers, promotions, transfers, etc.) on the evolution of Capgemini S.E. to directors and to the ten main beneficiaries this key indicator. (non-directors), the options exercised by the latter, and details of The Compensation Committee of the Capgemini S.A. Board of these plans are provided on pages 101 to 102. Directors is in charge of supervising compensation of the In addition, following a negotiation with French employee Company’s executive corporate officers and to review representatives, the Board decided to pay an incentive through compensation policies related to the Group senior managers, in shares subject to a presence condition of two years and with a particular equity-based incentives subject to Board approval. compulsory holding period of another two years in two occasions (2012 and 2014), instead of paying a bonus in cash for the “profit 3.2.7.2 Employee access to stock holding sharing bonus” implemented in 2011. As a result, more than Capgemini launched its first international employee stock 16,000 employees became shareholders in July 2014 and again ownership plan (ESOP), covering 19 countries, in 2009. The plan more than 15.200 employees out of the initial was very successful, with more than 14,000 employees applying 20,000 beneficiaries became shareholders in October 2016. 142 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2.8 Health and safety 3.2.8.1 Health and safety in the workplace Health and Safety in the workplace is an important feature of following the Duty of care and vigilance law (see section 3.1.5 human resources and facilities management. Even though the Group Ethics & Compliance). Group’s businesses do not involve high-risk activities, Health and We also ensure our employees observe and cooperate with all Safety responsibilities are taken very seriously and the Company applicable client rules regarding Health and Safety and has therefore established specific programs and measures. As a emergency procedures while on assignment. minimum, we comply with all local Health and Safety legal requirements across the Group. Well-being at work All our entities have Health and Safety policies in place, governed Next to ensuring a healthy and safe workplace, we strive to by Health and Safety Committees (HSCs) in a good number of improve the general health and well-being of our employees. countries. Various e-learning modules on Health and Safety matters are available to our employees including a module called Well Being 3 Agreements signed with unions and/or employees’ representation bodies are incorporated into the Health and Essentials which addresses topics such as health challenges, Safety policies. Examples of such agreements include the signing work-life balance, healthy eating, fitness, grief and loss, etc. In of the Work Environment Act in Sweden that defines the cooperation with external parties such as health insurers and employer’s responsibility for providing a healthy and safe healthcare providers, we also run various initiatives to enhance workplace, the Home Office agreement in Germany for enhanced health and well-being and prevent diseases. work-life-balance, and an agreement on Inappropriate Behavior at We consider both the prevention of sickness and the the workplace in the Netherlands. recovery/rehabilitation stages a shared responsibility of the Our Health and Safety policies are the basis for providing employee and Capgemini. In that respect, we strive to minimize information, guidelines and training, covering: the impact of the sickness/disability by following a smooth and efficient process through cooperation with external parties in  Health and Safety in the work place, including handling of the healthcare domain. Specific initiatives are developed to accidents, providing first aid, emergency procedures and safe improve the health and wellbeing of sick employees and to handling, use and disposal of hazardous substances enable a quicker return to work, in the best possible conditions. and Personal and Protective Equipment (PPE);  guidelines for Capgemini employees working on client sites An IT services provider, Capgemini employees do not face and for business travel; specific health or safety challenges. In every location, we strive to improve the work environment to make it comfortable and  initiatives on improving working conditions, including adapted to our type of work. In 2017, the facilities management work-life-balance programs, employee-manager relationships, central team and some local offices have started revamping the physical and psychological well-being; sites. The aim is to modernize the environment, make it more  sickness, disability and rehabilitation. appealing but also more comfortable and equipped with the services that make for a pleasant, facilitating environment for The Health and Safety policies are further cemented in specific employees to carry out their tasks under favorable conditions. procedures and handbooks. These are provided to all employees and starts at the onboarding process. Mandatory Awareness is growing on topics such as stress at work and trainings/e-learnings are taken regularly by employees, with the mental health, and some countries have spearheaded initiatives support of the local Learning and Development teams. in these areas. A few examples of this are: Guidelines, instructions and supplies for activities and situations  India has a Health Safety & Environment policy, OHSAS18001 affecting the day-to-day Health and Safety, such as emergency certified, which includes a standardized medical service for all instructions and first-aid activities are clearly visible and available locations (doctor, paramedic and full-time ambulance on site). in most of our offices. The offices of most of our business units Ergonomic sessions are available for all employees. Rescue are also regularly audited on Health and Safety aspects including team members have received emergency training on working conditions, humidity and lighting levels, temperature, air advanced first aid services by experts in the industry ; conditioning, minimal space per employee, etc.  France: with 25 Health and Safety Committees, there is a strong partnership with employee’s representatives and Health and safety on external premises unions ensuring compliance with norms and agreements and As a significant part of our employees work on client, working for improving effective implementation every year. subcontractor or other non-Capgemini sites, we require that Since March 2017, a Complementary Alert Mechanism adequate facilities, training and access to safety information is (Dispositif Complémentaire d’Alerte, DCA) has been set up to: provided and we cooperate with clients and subcontractors in ❚ support employees suffering from any kind of stress or pain some instances to ensure Health and Safety in the workplace. generated in any way by their work conditions and find a This specific area with subcontractors will be further improved solution. Every employee will be able to raise an alert and obtain support and resolution of the issue, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 143 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment ❚ lead collective regular diagnostics based on alerts raised in  Netherlands: focus was placed on vitality and work stress order to conduct targeted and effective preventive actions, prevention as one of the major health related risks: thus better anticipating and dealing with the causes of ❚ offered Masterclasses for employees on topics such as stress and pain at work. dealing with stress and energy management participation in A new Health at work agreement was signed with the social the National stress week partners in 2017, and the roll out has been conducted with ❚ led joint tender for periodic vitality screening program to be their participation and support through dedicated Steering rolled out early 2018 Committees; ❚ Sogeti now offers all employees a paid medical check every  UK: a Health & Safety Policy Statement and a H&S three years; Management System (“Health & Safety in Capgemini”) are in place:  Italy: launched an evaluation of work-related stress in Turin, to be extended to all sites in 2018; ❚ focus in 2017 was on raising awareness on workstation safety, accident and incident reporting and safety at  Belgium: now offers full medical checkup to 45+ people; work-related events,  Guatemala: set up an Occupational Health Committee for a ❚ continuous improvement rather than new programs is the safe environment for employees, in line with local new aim. As an example, identifying potential improvements to regulations; site safety with the facilities management team (CRES).  Mexico put in place a training program and certification for Latest improvement: the introduction of Automated internal rescue brigade (12 employees), in line with local Defibrillators on all sites; regulations and with ISO requirements.  Poland: a “Stay Well” new program is introduced in Cloud Infrastructure Services; Number of work-related accidents/headcount in 2015-2017 1.0% 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.4% 0.4% 0.39% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.26% 0.24% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% India France North Germany & Asia-Paciﬁc & United Kingdom Southern Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland Europe Countries 2015 2016 2017 A work-related accident is defined as a non-fatal injury resulting Most of these work-related accidents occurred during the daily in incapacity for work at least three consecutive days, excluding commutes to and from work. The Group recorded no fatal the day of accident. victims of work-related accidents in 2017. The coverage ratio for the above data is 95.8% of the year-end headcount. In 2017, the Group recorded 463 work-related accidents, of which 42.8% were declared in France, complying with regulations relating to the disclosing of such information. The 463 accidents correspond to an overall ratio of accidents/headcount of 0.24%. 144 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 People and work environment 3.2.9 Labor relations and social dialog 3.2.9.1 Social dialog at Group level: International 3.2.9.2 Labor relations and social dialog at local Works Council (IWC) level Employee dialog is instrumental to the success of the Group, Country employees’ representatives and works councils are accompanying its Business development strategy in a world strategic partners in all organizational and operational where performance and delivery to our customers make the transformations. This comes to life operationally in the countries, difference. Employees are at heart of our business success. In where unions, works councils and social representatives lead a that respect, Employee Relations are a powerful engine to move continuous dialog with Capgemini business leadership and HR. In ahead while accompanying change safely. It is structured at each partnership, labor agreements are signed that contribute a level of the organization, both local and global. better, safer, healthier work environment for all employees. The International Woks Council (IWC) was first implemented In 2017, there were 147 active labor agreements in 14 countries. in 2001 ahead of European regulations and then extended to The scope covered by the agreements vary from country to other regions of the Group. Its mission is to bring employee country depending on local legislation and encompass a wide 3 interests directly to the attention of the Group management and array of topics ranging from employee compensation and to be informed directly by the Group management of its plans benefits to equal pay and diversity in the workplace. for the Company, and their impact on employees. Capgemini acknowledges that collective and enterprise The IWC aspires to: agreements are an opportunity to materialize a healthy and transparent social dialog, and concrete advancements in labor  be an advisory body to Group management on employee conditions and work environment that benefit the Company by matters; increasing well-being at work, employees’ satisfaction and  exercise positive influence; engagement.  contribute to cooperation among individual employees and Some examples of our labor agreements are: the different parts of the Group in the different countries in which we operate;  France: 12 agreements signed in 2017 encompass compensation and benefits (including savings and retirement  contribute to make Capgemini an inspiring environment for schemes), health and safety, private health insurance scheme, all. ESOP employee shareholding program, intergenerational The representative of the Executive Committee is the Chairman agreement, organizational evolutions, among others; of the IWC, who acts in conformity with the Group Management  UK: there is a Works Council for each BU in the UK and an decisions and strategies. overarching national council, which includes union seats. IWC has a maximum of 30 members in total. The statutory Where required by law, Capgemini bargains on pay for union members of the IWC are delegated by the countries participating members and has framework agreements with four unions. in the European Agreement. Any other delegated members are 11 specific collective bargaining agreements in place for designated guest members. A guest member may represent a groups of employees inherited through Transfer of country or a minority group. Undertakings (Protection of Employment) regulations (TUPE). The employees are represented by country delegates and by a No new agreement was signed in 2017, nor inherited through permanent standing body called IWC Bureau. The Bureau is TUPE. Focus is on continuous improvement of existing composed by eight delegates: four representing the agreements and dispositions; top four European countries, and four elected by voting country  in the Netherlands, five collective agreements were signed on representatives. Only country members have voting rights and harmonization of salary systems and people management invited countries are only allowed to accompany the process. processes; The CEO attends the IWC Meeting at least once a year, and the  in several European countries, agreements were signed Group Executive Board (GEB) members are regularly invited to in 2017 on gender equality, equal pay and work-life balance attend the meetings for open discussions with IWC members. policies. In line with our own values, commitment and Since 2016, two directors representing the Employees have been objective on gender balance in the Company, we value these appointed to the Board, ahead of the prevailing legislation. One agreements, e.g.: Board member was designated by the French unions and the ❚ Spain, Gender Plan Agreement, second has been elected by the IWC noting that the latter was ❚ Germany, sustaining since 2015 the certification of the “Job already invited by the Chairman and CEO of the Company and family” audit; since 2015 to sit at the Board and in the Compensation Committee  India: there are currently no labor agreements signed for Capgemini India, the IT sector having a very low level of unionizing at the moment. Notwithstanding, Capgemini India provides a quality work environment and is committed to continuous improvement through its policies and standards, e.g. health and safety, nondiscrimination and diversity, prevention of sexual harassment, grievance procedure… REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 145 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.3 Social impact and digital inclusion 3.3 Social impact and digital inclusion At Capgemini, we believe we have a valuable role to play in a inclusion, provided we create the appropriate framework and world where Digital transformation is revolutionizing business, opportunities for them to engage with a higher social purpose. education, healthcare, ways of communicating and interacting… This is a pressing expectation from the young generations, and ultimately society and every person’s life. spreading swiftly to all generations. Digital inclusion can be defined as the ability of individuals and From a talent and employee engagement perspective, we groups to access and use information and communication believe these opportunities can only raise the level of technologies. It has three broad facets: access, adoption, and engagement of our employees, and provide a space where their application(1). Creating digitally inclusive societies is not only a talents can thrive, complementing their professional social responsibility, it is an acute need if we want to preserve development in their day-to-day work. It has been proven that and improve the world we live in. It is one of the major social challenges can trigger innovation, including business challenges of our time. innovation. As “leader for leaders”, we have the capabilities to be a key Finally, leading and/or participating in valuable projects for player in bringing Digital inclusion to the communities we Digital inclusion can be an opportunity for us to partner with our operate in, and especially to those who have less access to it, clients in collective social action, thus achieving higher impact namely the disadvantaged or marginalized in any way. Our skilled and results. employees can share their knowledge and contribute to Digital 3.3.1 Digital inclusion ambition Since 2015, we started focusing our social impact efforts on This complex challenge requires coordinated action from all Education and Skills, a space where Capgemini’s specific sectors public, private, NGO’s… to create, sustain and improve capabilities can bring particular value to individuals and society. A the opportunities for the most disadvantaged individuals and wide array of initiatives with high impact are running across communities to access and benefit from the Digital age. To do geographies, with India leading the way, and the rest of the so, we will deepen existing relevant partnerships and develop countries engaged in various projects related to providing new ones with global social innovators, non-for-profit education and skills to the communities in which we operate, organizations, corporates and institutes, universities, focusing on the populations who need it most. governments and other relevant players, local and global, competent and active in the Digital inclusion space. Our new strategy, “Architects of Positive Futures”, aims for higher focus and impact by concentrating our efforts on Digital To provide our employees with the opportunities to engage and inclusion and future skills, more strongly linked to our core share their knowledge, we’ll set up a global volunteering policy, business and capabilities. with the appropriate local implementation, leveraging existing national schemes and legislation where relevant to maximize Digital inclusion encompasses both the widening Digital divide impact. and the need for Digital literacy. It addresses issues of opportunity, access, knowledge, and skill, not only at the The key actions to take these objectives forward all the way to individual level but also for whole communities. Capgemini our 2020 objective are: acknowledges that the challenges and opportunities in the face  leveraging our key competencies: our position as a leading of the Digital revolution are not evenly distributed. Digital global technology services provider means that our greatest technology has opened new domains of exclusion and privilege social impact will be in leveraging our skills to support for some, leaving certain populations isolated from the Digital societies manage the impacts of the Digital revolution; realm and the opportunities it creates for education, professional development and better life conditions in general.  bridging the Digital divide: the differences in the impact of the Digital divide in each country requires a broad view to Even in countries where access to Digital resources are determine where we can deliver the most impact; mainstream and readily accessible, whole segments of the population are being left behind by the rapid progress of  providing support for development of local plans: technology. Employability nowadays requires as a minimum Group CSR will work with each country to understand the Digital literacy; on the other hand, the wave of automation greatest challenges in Digital inclusion and appropriate action; across industries, while bringing high value to business, also puts  transitioning support and refocusing: local Digital Inclusion at risk certain categories of people who risk losing their jobs plans will be created in 2018 to transition support through without gaining new skills enabling them to find new ones. donation and employee volunteering initiatives to focus on initiatives that will enable meaningful, measurable and sustained positive social impact. (1) (2) The Digital Inclusion Survey, https://digitalinclusion.umd.edu/content/what-digital-inclusion 146 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.3 Social impact and digital inclusion As an example, an impactful Digital inclusion initiative in India is: Partnering with DEF, Capgemini reached 900 beneficiaries in 2017 in ten government primary and junior schools,  The Digital Empowerment Foundation, (DEF): aims to connect creating e-learning centers under Raising Standards of underserved communities of India by providing them with Education and Going Digital (RAISED) project, in collaboration access to information. With the belief “Inform, Communicate with the local administration of the Gautama Buddha Nagar and Empower”, DEF finds sustainable Digital initiatives to District of Uttar Pradesh. E-learning prepares students of overcome information poverty in rural and remote locations today to become responsible Digital citizens for their of India, and empower communities with Digital literacy, community and its empowerment for the future. Digital tools and last mile connectivity. http://defindia.org/ 3.3.2 Key drivers for Digital inclusion  Leadership engagement: we will share our Digital inclusion  Donations: channelling donations to relevant partners that strategy and framework and cascade group guidelines and can help us achieve our goals (see 3.3.3). 3 policy for approving donations and volunteering  Client Partnerships: working with clients and business opportunities. partners on Digital inclusion initiatives is hugely beneficial to  Employee engagement: we will create awareness and equip our relationship, our level of impact and our reputation. our workforce to engage in existing initiatives, drive  Sponsorship: the leadership at global and local level, HR and conversations with clients on our Digital inclusion agenda in CSR will work with the business teams to ensure they are search of potential areas for collaboration and enable them to equipped to accelerate the streamlining of our partnerships use their key skills to take positive action. and beneficiaries, and to engage employees adequately. 3.3.3 Donations In 2017, we have contributed €3,371,900 to social impact Donations, if channelled appropriately and by choosing the initiatives across our geographies through donations made to relevant partners, will help us accelerate our impact. They have local and global non-for-profit organizations, charities, been progressively aligned to education and skills (2015-2016) educational institutions and other, mostly local, partners. and will now align to Digital inclusion up to a certain level (80% by 2020), while leaving a level of autonomy (20%) for local Donations are mostly charitable contributions, but there is also a business and employees to engage in equally relevant social significant and growing number of pro-bono hours given to the challenges from a local perspective. These local needs will differ community by participating in social impact projects, initiatives, from one country to the other, reflecting different situations and or in skills-based schemes to support the non-profit challenges. organizations with their specific challenges (e.g. with business consulting or IT skills to help them improve their effectiveness). As an example, we have rationalized our social impact partner base by 20% in North America in H1, aligning to Our aim is to engage employees more strongly to use their skills education & skills, and in 2018 will pursue opportunities to play for a positive social impact through innovative projects and in the Digital inclusion space. actions led with local business leadership, partners, and whenever possible with clients, for higher collective social impact. Donations by top 5 donating regions/countries Capgemini Group Total TOTAL (IN EUROS) €3,371,900 Top regions/countries Total India €1,470,160 France €655,050 North America €416,696 United Kingdom €412,165 Sweden €110,186 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 147 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Capgemini is committed to using its expertise in consulting, 1. management – we ensure we have rigorous processes in technology and outsourcing to deliver the positive place to manage and monitor our environmental impacts, as environmental benefits of the Digital revolution. According to well as respond to changing legislation; the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), these could be 2. performance – we are committed to reducing our material significant with the potential for the Information, environmental impacts with ambitious, long term Communication Tehnology (ICT) to cut ten times more CO2e than environmental targets that are aligned with the latest the ICT sector emits, as well as make an important contribution climate science; to improving resource efficiency. 3. engagement – we use our expertise and influence to This comes at a time when significant and growing promote environmental action across our value chain and environmental challenges are already having an impact globally. help our clients cut their carbon; and Rapid urbanization and increased consumption rates are leading to the depletion of natural resources and damage to fragile 4. resilience – we are deploying a global climate change risk ecosystems. The impacts of climate change are increasingly assessment process to build resilience and ensure business being felt by communities around the world. continuity in the face of inevitable climate change impacts. Capgemini’s Environmental Sustainability program is our response to both these challenges and these opportunities, with a focus on four core streams of activity: 3.4.1 Environmental Management As a global company operating in over 40 countries around the streamlining our internal capabilities and establishing an world, we need to ensure we have rigorous procedures in place Environmental Center of Excellence, we have made it possible to to manage our environmental impacts and respond to an implement ISO 14001 and respond to revisions to the standard in increasingly complex legislative landscape. We measure our a very efficient and effective way. environmental impacts globally, using one centralized system to In late 2016, Capgemini Group achieved its first global capture millions of data points from around 400 facilities and ISO 14001 certificate for its Environmental Management System covering the travel patterns of nearly 200,000 people. We have a (EMS), the culmination of several years’ effort developing a robust Environmental Management System (EMS) to help each global one team approach to environmental management. Capgemini entity to identify and manage its environmental During 2017, Capgemini Poland achieved ISO 14001 certification impacts, as well as act to reduce these impacts and ensure we for the first time, joining a global certificate which now covers meet Group-wide targets. ten countries, 208 sites and operations associated with 142,215 people. A further five countries have retained individual 3.4.1.1 Group environmental policy ISO 14001 certificates covering all or part of their operations, The Group Environmental Policy, endorsed by CEO Paul Hermelin, meaning that across the Group more than 82% of our operations sets out the measures required by all Capgemini entities in support by headcount are now ISO 14001 certified. We are committed to of our Global Environmental Sustainability program. It reinforces our increasing this coverage further, with a target to ensure all commitment to the continual improvement of environmental Capgemini entities with a headcount of over 1,000 people are performance across our global operations, specifically in the areas of ISO 14001 certified by the end of 2020. energy, business travel and waste management. The policy can be found at: 3.4.1.3 Measuring our impacts https://www.capgemini.com/resources/group-environmental-policy Capgemini’s material operational environmental impacts result from our use of energy (in both offices and data centers), our 3.4.1.2 Advancing our environmental management business-related travel and from the disposal of office waste. system These impacts, together with smaller impacts such as from water Our Global Sustainability Center of Excellence, a team of consumption and fugitive air-conditioning emissions are environmental experts, leads the way in ensuring we manage all measured and reported as part of our sustainability accounting of our environmental risks and impacts effectively, and remain and reporting processes. Other environmental impacts, such as compliant with all legal and regulatory requirements. Since 2009, those on biodiversity, land use, noise pollution and the sourcing a growing number of Capgemini entities have implemented an of raw materials, while regularly reviewed, are not currently Environmental Management System (EMS) in accordance with considered significantly material to our operations and ISO 14001. We have seen how this structured approach towards consequently are not discussed further in this report. continuous environmental improvement helps drive results. By 148 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability While certain local variations may exist, the Group’s main environmental aspects and impacts (for which data is collected) are shown in the table below. Main Environmental aspects Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business Business travel The international and domestic business travel we undertake, by road, rail, air, and from (55.88% of our GHG emissions) staying in hotels, all involve the combustion of fossil fuels, which releases greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and other pollutants into the air. Tackling this remains a major challenge for our industry, which is reliant on the mobility of its people in order to best utilize their skills and experience in serving customers worldwide. Energy consumption We use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas, district heating and oil to light, (43.57% of our GHG emissions) heat and power our offices and data centers. Data centers are particularly energy-intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. Our energy use has an impact in terms of the depletion of finite fossil fuels and associated GHG emissions. Energy security is also a growing area of concern in several 3 of the countries where we operate. Waste Management Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated by office consumables and (0.11% of our GHG emissions) packaging, as well as smaller amounts of food waste from on-site cafeterias or brought in by our people. The transportation, processing and disposal of this waste emits GHG emissions, with high levels of methane emissions associated with waste sent to landfill. Whilst waste emissions make up only a very small percentage of our total GHG emissions, waste management is also important in the context of mitigating against natural resource depletion and minimizing our material use. Water Given the nature of our services, our use of water is relatively low and has not been (0.27% of our GHG emissions) identified as a material environmental impact across the Group. However, concerns over water scarcity are growing in key countries where we operate such as India and Brazil and will continue to grow in future with the impacts of climate change. This makes it important that we play our part in measuring and controlling our water use. F-gas The manmade gases used in our air conditioning units are known as fluorinated gases (0.16% of our GHG remissions) (or F-gases) and whilst used in small quantities these have a high global warming potential. We measure and report on the F-gas leaked from air conditioning systems over time (or due to system faults). We measure and track our environmental impacts through our operational control approach. Our managed approach to global carbon accounting program, with a central team environmental data collection and reporting is essential for managing the data processing and validation, to ensure meeting corporate reporting obligations, such as the French consistent, high quality and accurate carbon data is available Grenelle II legislation at Group level and the Carbon Reduction across the Group. We remain committed to continuous Commitment legislation for Capgemini UK. It also enables us to improvement, both in terms of data quality and in terms of participate and score well in various voluntary sustainability providing meaningful insights to inform our program. This disclosures such as CDP and Vigeo-Eiris, as well as to meet includes, for example, gradually increasing the coverage of our information requests from our clients. reporting to reach the high level of 99.0% coverage of our We are recognized externally for the comprehensiveness of our operations we are currently at (with the remaining 1.0% approach to carbon accounting, with the Capgemini Group was estimated), as well as adding new emission sources to our recognized by Bloomberg as being part of the inventory. “100% Carbon Club”: an elite group of companies which Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions have been calculated transparently report on 100% of their Scope 1 and following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 GHG emissions. Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 149 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability 3.4.2 Environmental Performance The Paris Agreement on climate change has further underlined We were delighted to receive validation of our headline target the need for businesses to take swift and significant action in from the Science-Based Target initiative (SBT) in 2017, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We focus on making underlining the credibility of our approach and becoming one of long term reductions to our material environmental impacts, the first in our sector to achieve this validation. The SBT confirms particularly energy use in our offices and data centers and our that our long-term goals are consistent with the global effort to business travel emissions. Environmental initiatives are driven at keep average temperature increase well below the 2°C threshold a country level, enabling each Capgemini entity to concentrate agreed at the COP 21 climate conference in Paris. on their key impacts, as well as adapt their approach to the local business environment and culture. 3.4.2.2 Reducing Our Emissions In 2017, Capgemini’s total greenhouse gas emissions for the 3.4.2.1 Science-based targets entire Group were 499,756 tCO2e √, which represents a Our Group-wide commitment to improving our environmental significant 6.0% reduction since last year (or 6.1% reduction since performance is underpinned by a set of environmental targets, our base year of 2015) – particularly notable given our average which are measured against a 2015 baseline. Our headline target headcount has increased by 5.9% last year. As a result, we are focuses on carbon reduction, with a commitment to decoupling showing strong progress against our headline Group target of a our development as a business from our greenhouse gas 20% reduction by 2020, with a 15.2% reduction in emissions per emissions. The number of people delivering our services is head since 2015 (from 2.99 tonnes CO2e per head to 2.54 tonnes perhaps the most significant factor in determining our emissions of CO2e per head √ (1). Primarily this has been driven by a and therefore our headline target focuses on reducing our total reduction in our energy-related emissions per head of 12.7% and emissions per employee. This headline target is supported by a reduction of our travel emissions per head of 9.9%. additional reduction targets focused on our three most significant sources of emissions: office energy use, business travel and data center energy use. These targets provide a framework within which to drive agendas at a local level. Emissions per employee by region (Percentages shown in chart represent % change vs 2015) 7 6 5 -16% -14% -25% 4 -11% 3 -15% -16% 2 -17% +8% -9% -18% 1 0 United North Benelux Germany & Group India Nordic Countries France Southern Asia-Paciﬁc & Kingdom & America Central Europe average Europe Latin America Ireland 2015 2016 2017 3.4.2.3 Improving energy efficiency Across the Group, total reported energy use reduced by 8.6% energy use (or 5.7% since 2015) and a 15.7% reduction in data in 2017 compared to the previous year, from 445,079 MWh to center energy use (22.7% since 2015). We also reduced total 406,713 MWh √ (which represents an 11.8% reduction compared emissions associated with our use of energy by 7.6% in 2017. to 2015). This reduction is made up of a 5.0% reduction in office (1) For the purposes of measuring GHG emissions per head, an average headcount over the year has been calculated for both 2016 and 2017, which represents a more accurate calculation than using the December 2016 head count as compared to the December 2017 headcount. As a consequence, the headcount data here may vary slightly from the figures quoted in other sections of this report. 150 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Our energy reduction has been driven by a broad range of energy initiatives from around the Group, focused on six key areas: Energy Focus Areas 1. MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT ◗ Smart Meters & Demand Logic ◗ Energy audits ◗ Fuel leak detection sensors ◗ Facility level reduction targets 6. SPACE UTILISATION 2. BUILDING CONTROLS 3 ◗ Reducing under-utilised space ◗ Building Management Systems ◗ Moving to LEED or BREEAM ◗ Passive Infrared Sensors certiﬁed buildings ◗ Timers & thermostats 5. POLICY AND ENGAGEMENT 3. ENERGY EFFICIENT ◗ Energy Policy TECHNOLOGY ◗ Switch-oﬀ campaigns ◗ LED lighting ◗ Computer-based training ◗ Highly eﬃcient chillers ◗ UPS technology 4. RENEWABLE ENERGY ◗ Solar PV installation ◗ Solar thermal installation ◗ Renewable energy purchasing Key achievements this year at a country level include: including LED lighting installations, optimization of our Building Management Systems, and upgrading to more  despite an 9.1% headcount increase, Capgemini India efficient heating, ventilation and cooling systems have led to a achieved a 1.5% reduction in energy use. Key energy initiatives total energy saving of around 1.3 million kWh per year and an implemented this year include the installation of associated cost saving of over €110,000; state-of-the-art chillers which use water cooling to reduce energy use at our Hyderabad and Pune campuses, the  in the Netherlands we have achieved a 44% reduction in continued roll out of LED lighting across our Indian offices and energy use (made up of a 50% reduction in data center energy a program to replace old uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) use and a 29% reduction in office energy use. This has been systems with modular installations which can reduce energy driven in part by the closure of one of our major offices and a use by as much as 50%. We have also continued the significant data center during 2017; deployment of large scale solar photovoltaic installations at  in North America, overall energy use has increased by 4.3%, our Mumbai, Pune and Chennai campuses. In total, 3,705 solar which largely reflects an increase in our data center energy panels have been installed, including on the roof and along use of around 8.8%. By contrast, our office energy use has pedestrian walkways, leading to a generation capacity of reduced by around 4%, driven largely by improved space around 2.8 million kWh of solar energy per year; optimization including the closure of six sites, the remodeling  we reduced total reported energy use by around 23% in the of three others (Atlanta, Toronto, Burbank) and a significant UK and total energy emissions by 34%. More than two thirds focus on improving the energy efficiency of lighting, of this reduction is due to an ongoing data center appliances and infrastructure at our Manhattan office; optimization strategy, and reflects the closure of one of our  in France, we have been progressing a space optimization older, less efficient data centers in 2016 followed by the program, with the closure of 16 offices and four data centers partial closure of another in 2017. The refurbishment and reducing our floor area and our total energy use. Recent upgrade of one of our key offices at Telford has enabled us to energy audits have helped identify several energy efficiency utilize space more efficiently in this location, and thereby enhancements and improvements to internal lighting have close two other offices in the same area with low utilization. In been made, including the installation of LED lighting and addition, energy efficiency initiatives across our estate passive infrared sensors. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 151 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Energy Use by Region (Percentages shown in chart represent % change vs 2015) 180,000 160,000 0% 140,000 120,000 100,000 -16% 80,000 60,000 -32% +8% 40,000 -1% 20,000 -43% -20% -40% +2% 0 India France United North Germany & Benelux Asia-Paciﬁc & Nordic Southern Kingdom & America Central Europe Latin America Countries Europe Ireland 2015 2016 2017 Renewable Energy Purchasing As well as controlling and reducing our energy use, we look for from renewable energy sources in 2017. In addition, opportunities across the Group to switch our energy use to Capgemini India and Capgemini UK have both made significant cleaner, renewable sources. Several Capgemini entities including investments in renewable energy generation, with a total India, the Netherlands, Sweden, the UK, Norway, Belgium, combined generation of 2,856 MWh this year. Germany and Finland purchased a large amount of electricity Renewable energy Renewable Energy Renewable Energy Other Electricity Market-Based % of Energy from Generated Purchased Supplies Electricity Country Renewable Sources MWh MWh MWh Emissions t CO2e Finland 99.1% 4,585 43 70 Sweden 98.0% 1,633 33 171 Netherlands 97.6% 10,955 272 114 Belgium 93.3% 785 57 11 UK 69.4% 99 30,572 13,540 4,622 Norway 58.8% 514 360 117 Germany 17.4% 1,768 8,366 5,940 India 10.3% 2,757 11,812 126,999 95,839 All other regions 3% 4,677 152,643 30,913 TOTAL 18.8% 2,856 67,302 302,314 137,798 3.4.2.4 Reducing business travel Business travel makes up over half of our total reported GHG given our headcount grew by 5.9% during the same period. emissions and poses a significant cost to the business, making it When measured on a per head basis travel emissions have an important area of focus. This year our business travel reduced by around 9.9% this year, or around 12.7% since our emissions reduced by around 4.6% (from 292,594 tonnes CO2e base year. to 279,269 tonnes CO2e √) which is a significant achievement 152 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Business Travel Emissions Per Employee by Region (Percentages shown in chart represent % change vs 2015) 4.5 4.0 -5% -19% 3.5 3.0 2.5 +13% -7% 2.0 -13% 1.5 -5% -5% 3 1.0 -19% +19% -21% 0.5 0.0 North Benelux Germany & United Group Nordic France India Southern Asia-Paciﬁc & America Central Europe Kingdom & average Countries Europe Latin America Ireland 2015 2016 2017 Whilst recognizing the importance of face-to-face time with our emissions by 6% overall and by 9.3% on a per head basis. A key clients, we continue to take pragmatic steps to reduce our focus during 2017 has been on identifying the most travel-related impacts. Across the Group, the continued frequently used flight routes, so that opportunities for low deployment of integrated mobile, audio and video conferencing carbon alternatives can be investigated; technology enables our people to work more flexibly without  in the UK, business travel emissions have reduced by 4.4%, the need to travel. We are also exploring options which enable with a significant reduction in air travel in particular. This has people to choose low carbon transport for their commute and been driven in part by ongoing improvements to mobile and business travel, such as lift sharing, offering hybrid and electric audio communications. Capgemini UK has also been focused vehicles and providing incentives to encourage the uptake of during 2017 on increasing engagement and awareness around public transport. At the country level, the main results in 2017 travel behaviors with surveys and interviews conducted to were: improve understanding and awareness of travel patterns;  in India, emissions from business travel reduced by 5.1%  a sustained focus on reducing emissions from business travel in 2017, a strong achievement given a corresponding increase in The Netherlands has contributed to a further 4.2% in average headcount of 9% within the same period. To reduction in business travel emissions since 2016. Capgemini reduce emissions from employee commuting, a carpooling Netherlands is part of the Dutch Business Sustainable Mobility initiative through sRide mobile app was introduced in Pledge and helped initiate the program Anders Reizen (Travel March 2017 across our Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Differently); Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune offices. The response has been extremely positive, with 21,000 employees signing up to date,  in Germany, business travel emissions reduced by 11.5% on a making Capgemini the highest user of the sRide app amongst per head basis, or by 1.6% overall. Capgemini Germany technology companies; promotes the use of green hotels, with employees able to view and select more sustainable hotel options when booking  business travel emissions have decreased by 4.2% in France or their travel. We continue to run a Mit dem Rad zur Arbeit (bike 7.1% per head in 2017, with a wide range of initiatives to work) initiative, with communications campaigns and implemented in 2017 to reduce travel emissions including the support provided to make cycling to work a feasible option. deployment of mobility plans across 28 key sites, increasing the use of electric and hybrid vehicles within our company car fleet, installing electric vehicle charging points across several 3.4.2.5 Waste and circular economy major sites, introducing car parking spaces dedicated to As a provider of consulting and technology services, our waste is carpooling and providing new shower and locker facilities for largely generated from office consumables and packaging and those travelling by bike. Communications and training have makes up a relatively small portion of our overall GHG emissions. also been key, with four Smarter Travel weeks held, improved Nonetheless we are taking steps to minimize and reduce the information about public transport options at major sites volume of waste we generate across the Group and some of our provided, an awareness campaign around electric vehicles and larger entities have ambitious waste reduction targets in place, the provision of eco-driving training; such as Capgemini India which is committed to sending Zero Waste to Landfill.  in North America, communications and engagement on the topic of sustainable travel have helped reduce travel REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 153 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability The most efficient way of reducing our impacts from waste As well as reducing the amount of waste generated, we continue disposal is not to generate waste in the first place. The concept to identify opportunities to increase recycling rates and provide of “circular economy” is the idea of effectively “closing the loop” alternatives to sending waste to landfill: – maintaining products and materials in a positive development  following our recent rebranding in late 2017, cycle for as long as possible to ensure as much value as possible Capgemini Belgium collaborated with several local charities to can be extracted. As a provider of services, we have limited re-use as many of items with the old branding as possible. opportunities to practice circular economy principles as part of T-shirts, notepads, pens, jackets were distributed to more our core business model. However, circular economy thinking has than ten charity projects with an estimated ten cubic meters influenced the way we buy goods and our overall waste strategy diverted from landfill; in various ways across the Group. To give a few examples:  Capgemini France have been focused on improving recycling  the deployment of managed print services with secure facilities and food waste collection across various sites, printing across various countries, as well as default black and helping contribute to a 4% reduction in the overall amount of white and double-sided print settings, has helped us waste being sent to landfill; significantly reduce the amount of paper and toner we use across the Group. In addition, our three chosen printer  Capgemini UK took part in the “Square Mile Challenge” in suppliers are all notable for their commitments to embedding London, to increase awareness about recycling of coffee cups sustainability within product design – the printers themselves and encourage people visiting local cafes to bring their own are highly energy efficient achieving Energy Star certification, re-usable mugs. whilst the components are designed for durability, and where Food waste is not a material environmental impact across the possible are re-usable or recyclable at end-of-life; whole Group, as many countries do not provide cafeterias or  in both France and the UK, we have programs to ensure reuse food for employees. However, a number of initiatives to reduce and recycling of old phones. In the UK, we launched a new food waste are in place at a country-level including: campaign in 2017 “My 2nd Life” which provides employees with  in India (where on-site cafeterias are provided), people are a simple way to recycle old personal electronic devices with all encouraged to self-serve to avoid foodwatage. Ongoing proceeds going to “Closing the loop” a circular economy social communication campaigns have helped raise awareness of the enterprise working in Africa. The French program called amount of food waste being generated, for example, by Je recycle & Je gagne, involves purchasing employees’ weighing the previous day’s waste and equating it to the smartphones at a competitive price for reuse and recycling. As number of meals that could have been provided. In addition, part of the same program, our people can buy reconditioned organic waste converters were installed in 2017 in Chennai, PCs or smartphones from Capgemini employees at prices up Pune and Hyderabad locations, with 250 kg of compost to 70% cheaper than buying a new one. In addition, already being generated each year for gardening and since 2014, a collaboration with the company Nodixia has landscaping. We are also in the process of installing organic enabled Capgemini France to re-use more than 93% of our old waste converters at two further offices in Mumbai and a computers which are used to create reconditioned computers. bio-gas plant in one of our Pune offices; This initiative also has social benefits, with Nodixia employing  in Sweden, food waste is segregated for several of our people with disabilities and reinvesting part of the profits in locations including Stockholm, Göteborg, Malmö, Älmhult & innovative social projects; Växjö. In these locations, the municipal waste system enables  in various Capgemini entities including the UK, India and North food waste to be used for the generation of biogas; America, the provision of reusable mugs and water glasses or  in France, at our training campus (Les Fontaines), food waste bottles has reduced the use of disposable cups; is used to create compost which is then is re-used by  in the UK, the provision of energy-efficient hand dryers avoids gardeners for the maintenance of the 52-hectare park; the need for paper towels. We have also been working with  in the UK, food waste is segregated at key sites and disposed suppliers for a number of years to minimize packaging on the of through waste-to-energy schemes (i.e. the food waste is goods we buy. In addition, the development and launch of a used to generate electricity). In North America, cafeterias are new supplier assessment tool during 2016 gives us a better not available on site but where food is brought in for team ability to identify and engage with suppliers who have strong events, leftovers are made available to other employees. If circular economy principles. there is a major event with large amount of excess food, caterers will donate to local shelters. Our total waste generation has remained relatively stable this year, reducing slightly by 1.5%, a positive outcome given that our workforce grew by 6% during the same period. We also increased recycling rates significantly, meaning that overall 11.8% less waste was sent to landfill in 2017 than the previous year, with our rate of diversion from landfill increasing from 27% last year to 35% this year. 154 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability 3.4.2.6 Other impact areas 3.4.2.7 Summary of environmental data The volume of measured water (used and recycled) in 2017 was by country 1,281,143 m3, a small reduction of around 0.1% compared The environmental data presented in this report has been taken to 2016. from our Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting system Several Capgemini entities, particularly India where water which covers 28 countries representing 99% of Group scarcity is a concern, have invested in innovative technology to headcount. We have estimated the data for the remaining 1% of reduce water use. operations, by applying a relevant uplift to each office and travel emission source to account for operations where we do not have Rainwater harvesting equipment has been installed across six data collection processes in place. This estimated data is major sites in India (as well as one in the UK), with the rainwater provided within the environmental data tables labelled as “Other collected, mostly used in HVAC systems. A sewage treatment Operations” and further explanations are given in the table plant with a state-of-the art membrane bio-reactor has been footnotes. installed in Pune, enabling us to treat the water to the highest standard and efficiently reuse it for landscaping and flushing. In Where data is not available for a particular country, it has sometimes been necessary to use assumptions and estimations. several locations across India the use of reverse osmosis water For all countries, data for the month of December 2017 has been 3 purification technology has enabled us to recycle water for use in landscaping and gardening. Improvements to tap fittings, estimated due to the time of the preparation of this report. In sensors and flush controls, as well as water awareness tips on most countries, data for energy, F-gas, waste and water for posters and as part of training courses have also had an impact. October and November 2017 data has also been estimated. Other examples of the types of estimations and extrapolations Total F-Gas emissions from our air conditioning systems for 2017 which have been used for certain data include: totalled 2,021 tCO2e, which represents a 2% increase since 2016. Collecting accurate F-gas data remains a challenge across the  estimating unavailable 2017 data based upon available Group due to the fact that many of our sites are leased, with 2016 data (according to documented methodologies related F-gas maintenance procedures not well regulated in some to differing circumstances and covering all aspects of energy, countries. Our F-gas data is split into: travel, water and waste management;  F-gas emissions which are considered to be GHG emissions  estimating usage data based on available cost data (primarily HFCs, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol) – (employing metrics such as the cost per kWh for electricity these are included in our Scope 1 GHG emissions: in 2017 and gas; and cost per liter of diesel or per kilometer of travel); these emissions were 808 tCO2e; or  F-gas emissions which have a global warming potential but are  estimating usage data for a facility based on data available for outside the usual scope of GHG reporting (such as HCFCs, other facilities (such as estimating electricity usage, waste which are covered by the Montreal Protocol). In 2017 these disposal & water consumption based on area of the facility. emissions were 1,213 tCO2e. Further disclosure about the scope of data available and Further country-level details are provided in the tables and the extrapolations employed is presented in footnotes under the footnotes below. data tables. The management of other potential pollutants (such as gas oil and hazardous cleaning chemicals) forms part of our ISO 14001 certified environmental management systems. Given the office-based nature of our business, these are relatively low risk areas. However, we still take proactive preventative measures such as maintaining Hazardous Substance registers, installing bunding, providing training to Facilities teams and conducting regular site “Walkaround” checks. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 155 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Table 1: GHG emissions 2017 GHG Emissions By Scope Historic Trend Headline Target Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2015 Total 2016 Total 2017 Total 2017 Emissions % Change Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions√ Per Employee√ vs 2015 Country t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e/head % India 3 365 112 827 113 829 234 070 238 411 230 021 2,31 (16,2%) France 1 062 3 420 30 574 36 305 37 015 35 057 1,51 (6,8%) UK 819 15 508 20 363 52 547 46 938 36 689 4,50 (24,4%) Netherlands 175 5 313 22 368 36 203 33 247 27 856 4,55 (16,5%) North America 119 17 484 61 259 83 301 81 949 78 862 4,56 (15,7%) Canada N/A 1 409 2 584 4 186 4 595 3 993 1,71 (7,5%) USA 119 16 074 58 676 79 115 77 354 74 869 5,01 (16,9%) Total Largest operations 5 541 154 552 248 392 442 426 437 560 408 485 2,65 (17,4%) Belgium 25 174 5 710 5 967 6 130 5 910 4,91 0,4% Czech Republic 32 68 91 239 217 192 1,57 (29,6%) Denmark N/A 45 259 333 342 304 1,11 (1,2%) Finland 29 737 682 2 295 1 982 1 449 2,54 (42,3%) Germany 201 5 158 21 896 25 183 27 714 27 256 6,29 (9,3%) Ireland N/A 23 171 69 218 194 1,25 94,9% Italy 387 831 3 069 4 739 4 505 4 286 1,25 (22,7%) Luxembourg N/A 70 3 128 2 870 3 253 3 198 5,02 (8,8%) Norway N/A 24 910 874 836 933 1,12 (2,6%) Poland 284 7 297 6 274 13 278 13 482 13 855 1,89 (11,5%) Romania 86 250 242 381 531 578 0,74 (4,4%) Spain 35 1 237 3 154 4 698 4 639 4 426 0,96 (14,2%) Sweden N/A 256 3 672 3 954 4 465 3 928 1,57 (7,5%) Switzerland N/A 2 359 416 410 361 1,52 (3,5%) Other Europe 1 079 16 173 49 619 65 296 68 723 66 871 2,48 (10,6%) Brazil 40 976 3 819 5 933 6 004 4 835 0,88 19,0% Guatemala 75 436 797 1 124 1 012 1 308 1,08 (4,0%) Argentina N/A 127 159 181 376 286 0,80 90,0% Mexico N/A 118 1 375 710 791 1 493 1,38 6,8% Total Latin America 115 1 657 6 150 7 949 8 183 7 922 0,98 22,4% China N/A 2 318 3 190 6 391 5 537 5 509 2,36 (20,4%) Philippines N/A 281 160 497 479 441 1,46 (42,0%) Vietnam N/A 89 240 262 247 329 1,42 (4,5%) Australia N/A 495 3 663 3 538 4 361 4 158 3,24 (9,5%) Morocco N/A 1 057 307 1 802 1 613 1 364 0,95 (37,9%) Total Other Regions N/A 4 241 7 560 12 491 12 238 11 801 2,11 (20,6%) Other Countries (Estimated) 65 1 464 3 149 4 135 4 817 4 678 2,33 (12,7%) GRAND TOTAL 6 799 178 087 314 871 532 297 531 522 499 756 2,54 (15,2%) 156 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Table 2: Energy use & related emissions Energy Use 2017 Energy Emissions Target % Change in Office Office Data Total Energy Energy vs Center Energy Office Data Center T&D Other Total Energy Use√ 2015 Energy Use Use√ Electricity Electricity Losses Energy Emissions Country MWh % MWh MWh t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e India 151 805 0,4% N/A 151 805 112 827 N/A 28 381 2 763 143 971 France 42 917 (12,2%) 42 507 85 423 1 493 1 729 301 1 261 4 784 UK 14 737 (25,0%) 33 346 48 083 3 853 11 655 1 450 730 17 688 Netherlands 4 619 (32,6%) 7 584 12 203 1 736 3 569 274 183 5 762 North America 15 073 0,8% 29 621 44 694 5 967 11 517 1 304 119 18 907 3 Canada 4 571 13,6% 4 826 9 396 686 724 169 N/A 1 579 USA 10 502 (3,9%) 24 795 35 298 5 282 10 793 1 134 119 17 328 Total Largest operations 229 151 (5,1%) 113 058 342 209 125 876 28 469 31 710 5 057 191 112 Belgium 980 (23,4%) N/A 980 174 N/A 7 25 206 Czech Republic 243 (20,9%) N/A 243 68 N/A 5 20 93 Denmark 175 63,7% N/A 175 45 N/A 3 N/A 47 Finland 1 149 (49,9%) 3 870 5 019 127 554 28 85 795 Germany 7 278 1,3% 5 881 13 159 2 014 2 785 223 560 5 583 Ireland 55 (30,1%) N/A 55 23 N/A 2 N/A 25 Italy 1 862 14,6% 2 747 4 610 256 575 68 387 1 286 Luxembourg 230 17,5% N/A 230 70 N/A 2 N/A 72 Norway 965 (13,8%) N/A 965 7 N/A 1 16 25 Poland 11 960 (0,8%) N/A 11 960 7 054 N/A 583 527 8 164 Romania 1 438 89,2% N/A 1 438 182 N/A 46 154 382 Spain 5 363 (3,4%) N/A 5 363 1 134 N/A 143 138 1 415 Sweden 2 971 (21,4%) 71 3 042 17 1 1 237 257 Switzerland 97 18,4% N/A 97 2 N/A 0 N/A 2 Other Europe 34 767 (4,5%) 12 569 47 335 11 174 3 915 1 114 2 150 18 353 Brazil 3 910 (32,0%) 2 242 6 152 617 360 70 18 1 065 Guatemala 1 423 18,0% N/A 1 423 436 N/A 52 N/A 488 Argentina 323 311,5% N/A 323 127 N/A 12 N/A 139 Mexico 258 (17,9%) N/A 258 118 N/A 19 N/A 137 Total Latin America 5 914 (19,5%) 2 242 8 156 1 297 360 153 18 1 828 China 3 121 (22,5%) 289 3 410 2 122 197 166 N/A 2 484 Philippines 465 (24,2%) N/A 465 281 N/A 26 N/A 307 Vietnam 251 22,8% N/A 251 89 N/A 17 N/A 106 Australia 583 (0,6%) N/A 583 495 N/A 26 N/A 522 Morocco 1 494 (25,0%) N/A 1 494 1 057 N/A 157 N/A 1 214 Total Other Regions 5 914 (20,3%) 289 6 203 4 044 197 392 N/A 4 633 Other Countries (Estimated) 2 809 10,4% N/A 2 809 1 451 N/A 314 70 1 834 GRAND TOTAL 278 555 (5,7%) 128 158 406 713 143 843 32 940 33 682 7 295 217 760 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 157 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Table 3: Travel, waste & other impacts Business Travel Waste Other Impact Areas Target 2017 % % Business Change Diverted F-gas Travel from Total Waste from Total Waste Water F-gas (Out of Emissions√ 2015 Generated Landfill Emissions Wate emissions (Scope 1) Scope) Country t CO2e % tonnes % t CO2e cubic meters r t CO2e t CO2e t CO2e India 84 166 (5,2%) 1 157 49,0% 290 942 511 992 602 1 108 France 30 146 (1,0%) 940 30,1% 72 52 166 55 N/A N/A UK 18 857 4,4% 189 82,2% 7 46 152 49 89 N/A Netherlands 22 059 (14,5%) 237 20,1% 20 13 561 14 N/A N/A North America 59 871 (8,6%) 651 5,9% 62 21 410 23 N/A N/A Canada 2 392 (15,6%) 201 0,0% 20 2 329 2 N/A N/A USA 57 479 (8,3%) 450 8,5% 42 19 081 20 N/A N/A Total Largest operations 215 100 (5,9%) 3 174 34,4% 451 1 075 800 1 132 691 1 108 Belgium 5 700 0,1% 26 31,1% 2 1 504 2 N/A N/A Czech Republic 84 (33,8%) 17 0,0% 2 187 0 13 5 Denmark 254 (15,6%) 42 100,0% 1 940 1 N/A N/A Finland 653 2,6% 19 100,0% 0 905 1 N/A N/A Germany 21 657 12,8% 209 99,4% 5 10 314 11 N/A N/A Ireland 168 429,1% 1 100,0% 0 673 1 N/A N/A Italy 2 949 (15,0%) 73 0,0% 7 42 540 45 N/A N/A Luxembourg 3 125 11,3% 5 0,0% 0 1 082 1 N/A N/A Norway 904 10,8% 44 41,5% 3 2 022 2 N/A N/A Poland 5 638 8,1% 372 23,4% 30 21 724 23 N/A N/A Romania 188 12,6% 44 2,4% 4 3 184 3 N/A N/A Spain 2 971 (7,3%) 112 32,9% 24 15 012 16 N/A N/A Sweden 3 663 0,9% 65 69,8% 6 2 488 3 N/A N/A Switzerland 356 (12,3%) 9 0,0% 1 1 667 2 N/A N/A Other Europe 48 310 5,7% 1 038 45,0% 86 104 243 110 13 5 Brazil 3 727 (15,2%) 33 53,8% 2 18 660 20 21 88 Guatemala 729 4,5% 67 2,9% 7 8 926 9 75 N/A Argentina 147 (0,2%) 1 100,0% 0 1 0 N/A N/A Mexico 1 355 155,2% 6 0,0% 1 1 172 1 N/A N/A Total Latin America 5 958 3,2% 107 19,7% 9 28 759 30 96 88 China 2 993 2,2% 109 0,4% 11 20 275 21 N/A N/A Philippines 132 61,4% 3 14,8% 0 1 501 2 N/A N/A Vietnam 220 29,8% 24 0,0% 2 791 1 N/A N/A Australia 3 600 21,4% 58 2,7% 6 28 887 30 N/A N/A Morocco 140 (33,5%) 17 0,0% 2 8 321 9 N/A N/A Total Other Regions 7 085 11,5% 211 1,2% 21 59 774 63 N/A N/A Other Countries (Estimated) 2 817 13,0% 45 35,6% 6 12 567 13 8 12 GRAND TOTAL 279 269 (3,4%) 4 575 34,9% 572 1 281 143 1 348 808 1 213 158 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Notes offices in France has been estimated based on a conversion factor derived from 2014 actual data, with the data adjusted  Data identified in these tables by a √ mark has been reviewed to take account of the floor area of each facility. Including by KPMG with a reasonable level of assurance. other cases when actual data was not available, France’s  Data included in the tables is for the reporting period estimated data accounts for approximately 11.1% of total January to December 2017 (unless otherwise indicated). Group energy use, 10.8% of total office energy use and 0.4%  “Scope” is a reporting term from Greenhouse Gas Protocol, of total GHG emissions. which is used in carbon accounting to categorize emissions  Travel: Emission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral reported according to the level of control a company has over Company have been used to calculate the emissions an emissions source. associated with hotel nights in all countries.  All emission sources: With the exception of electricity and  Travel: In the Netherlands and Belgium, emissions data hotel nights (mentioned below), emissions have been associated with car travel include personal car use as well as calculated using the emission factors recommended by business mileage as it cannot be separated. DEFRA:  Travel: New rail and taxi expenses data for India was available https://www.gov.uk/measuring-and-reporting-environmentalfor the first time in 2017. Since corresponding data for 2015 & 3 impacts-guidance-for-businesses. 2016 was not available, it was estimated proportionately for  Energy: Electricity emissions have been calculated in line with Capgemini India for those years. the location-based approach. “Regional” electricity emission  Travel: Guest house data for India was reported for all factors for UK (DEFRA), the US (eGrid), Canada (NIR 2015) and employee stays in guest houses for the first time in 2017. Australia (NGA 2015) are used. For all other countries, an Since corresponding data for 2015 & 2016 was not available, it emission factor from International Energy Agency (IEA) has was estimated based on 2017 data. As no emission factors for been applied to calculate Scope 2 emissions from purchased guest houses are currently available, we completed an analysis electricity. of energy emissions of one guest house and derived a  Energy: Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s conversion factor of 1 guest house room night = 0.5 hotel offices have large server rooms. These are not considered to room night. be data centers but their presence should be taken into  Where specific data related to energy, business travel, waste consideration when comparing the energy usage of our and water was not available, it has been estimated based on offices against those in other sectors. appropriate methods as described at the beginning of this  Energy: “T&D losses” refers to electricity transmission and section. Data for 2015 and 2016 has also been restated in the distribution grid losses i.e. the energy loss that occurs in case of significant improvements being identified to the data, getting the electricity from the power plant to our facilities. correction of errors or estimated data being replaced with  Energy: “Other Energy Sources” includes the use of natural actual data gas, diesel or gas oil, LPG, district heating and cooling in our  Table key: N/A = Not Applicable where data sources are not offices and data centers. applicable.  Energy: Due to the continued absence of reliable data from the energy supplier, 80% of electricity consumption for all 3.4.3 Climate resilience Climate change impacts and global temperature increases are identify the top climate hazards posed to each of our operating not only a future inevitability, they are already being countries. The model analyzes six main hazards: extreme experienced. As well as minimizing our own contribution to weather, extreme temperatures, changing weather patterns, climate change and working with clients to enable carbon water stress, rising sea levels and loss of natural capital. This reductions, we need to ensure we have the capability to adapt to information is then used to create a model which maps likely climate change. This means, for example, ensuring business impacts and assesses the outcomes of these impacts for our continuity and supporting the wellbeing of our people in the business. face of extreme weather events. We believe our business will experience the outcomes of these Over the last 18 months, we been developing and deploying a impacts in six areas: Group-wide Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA) approach to  project delivery; further integrate climate change risk into our corporate risk management. This will ensure the risks of climate change are  mobility; planned for and we remain resilient in a changing global climate.  health and wellbeing; The CCRA assesses the vulnerability to climate change of our  legislative compliance; assets, workplace locations, employees and the national  insurance; and infrastructures we rely upon. We have undertaken significant analysis of scientific, peer reviewed research and models to  Digital connectivity. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 159 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability In order to ensure business continuity and build resilience against Our CCRA also focuses on ensuring employee safety when the increasing likelihood of adverse climatic events, we are also extreme weather events occur and providing sufficient support reviewing current policies and processes in place that mitigate to those whose families and homes may be affected by them. the impacts of these events. For any gaps identified, Our commitment to managing our climate risk effectively improvements are suggested to ensure that we are able to continues to be recognized externally. In 2017, we received a continue to deliver high quality services to our clients, even when score of Ain the CDP Climate Change disclosure, placing us in faced with the more extreme impacts of climate change. the top 22% of companies disclosing to CDP. 3.4.4 Engagement The biggest environmental impact we can have as a company is  Capgemini North America held two webinars focussed on the not from our own operations but through the solutions we topics of Smart Cities and Water and recorded three deliver to our clients and through the influence we have over our sustainability podcasts; people and our suppliers. Our engagement stream is in part  Capgemini UK relaunched its external website and intranet about creating a coherent communications approach to site under the new “Positive Planet” campaign, with videos, encourage and inspire our people to take action on blogs, webinars and events to celebrate and raise awareness environmental issues. We set consistent standards for our of the UK sustainability program; suppliers on a range of environmental, ethical and social criteria (see 3.1.5 Responsible Procurement for further details) and we  Capgemini Germany ran several engaging campaigns to collaborate closely with our clients to enable us to achieve encourage employees to think about their impacts whilst in shared sustainability aspirations. the office, including a poster campaign around reducing paper use and a sticker campaign to encourage switching off the lights; 3.4.4.1 Engaging our people  at our Serge Kampf Les Fontaines learning campus we ran a Whilst most activity is driven at a country level, we run an annual tree-planting campaign in partnership with the Group-wide campaign during World Environment Week, with Mytree association. This involved planting 50 fruit trees at the global communications supported by events and campus, reforesting 52 hectares in the Amazon (equivalent to communications at a local level. In 2017, we themed our the size of the campus) and encouraging our clients to take communications around the four elements earth, air, water and similar action; fire, publishing daily articles on our intranet site outlining Capgemini’s sustainability aspirations, and individual actions  Capgemini France and Capgemini UK both developed new employees can take to reduce their own impact. sustainability computer-based training courses during 2017. 2017 also saw us hold our first ever “Global Carbon Hackathon”, which brought together over 200 talented Capgemini 3.4.4.2 Engaging our clients developers, data scientists and sustainability enthusiasts from The biggest environmental impact we can have as a company is across 11 countries. Teams were given access to millions of data through the solutions we deliver to our clients. We are points about Capgemini’s carbon footprint and had two weeks to committed to actively supporting our clients to address their come up with creative new ways to visualize this data or ideas for own sustainability challenges and believe there are huge new applications that would use the data to inspire and drive opportunities for our business in this area. Many of our change. The quality of the submissions was so high that 2018 will technology solutions already have significant environmental see us take forward several of the best ideas to be deployed, benefits, helping our clients improve efficiency or reduce with one winning team tasked with developing their solution and resource consumption, and we are identifying ways in which harnessing the input and expertise of other participating teams. these benefits can be further leveraged. Examples of communication, awareness and training provided at We are working to build low carbon innovation into new and a local level include during: existing client service offers. As a provider of IT services and  Capgemini France screened the films “Demain” & “Before the consulting, we have the opportunity to collaborate with clients Flood” in more than ten offices to raise awareness of the topic to help reduce their carbon footprint and wider sustainability of climate change. 25,000 LED lights were also distributed to impacts through the advice that we offer and the solutions that employees to encourage people to make the change to more we design and deliver. Capgemini also recognizes that energy efficient lighting at home. Capgemini France also operational efficiency is a key driver in ensuring longevity for our initiated several “bee clubs” to increase involvement in clients, a driver that is often complemented by reduced carbon Capgemini’s bee hive biodiversity program; emissions.  Capgemini Belgium ran a social media campaign encouraging Digital transformation brings many opportunities to develop colleagues to share their sustainability pictures and stories new business services while improving the time to market. We (cycling to work, carpooling, taking the stairs and so on). This are using and mastering Internet of Things, Cloud, Big Data, inspired our Young Talent Community to run their own Mobility, Automation and Artificial Intelligence tools to help our sustainability event focused on sharing ideas; clients create innovative services. Sustainability must be a key factor of this transformation as IT has the potential to be both the cause and the solution for sustainability issues; as such, planetary limits and net impacts must be considered when designing and implementing IT solutions. Designing lean architectures, that are respectful of the environment, optimizing energy consumption and computer resources, data transmission, data center hosting, quality coding and the Internet of Valuable Things is our way to promote an innovative and sustainable Digital transformation. 160 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Reducing fuel consumption in supply chains Capgemini also works with utility providers globally on smart Carbon and cost reduction often come together, which is meter rollouts, both supporting the rollouts themselves and particularly true in two recent examples where we implemented preparing utilities to leverage the data that smart meters transport management (TMS) and vehicle monitoring systems for provide and move towards functioning as part of a smart grid. a large logistics provider and a retailer. Both clients wanted to This not only helps utilities and consumers to manage reduce the costs of their fuel consumption and Capgemini consumption more effectively, but also facilitates the integration installed TMS solutions to increase the efficiency of route of decentralised renewable energy generation into energy grids. planning, showing drivers the most efficient route to sites and It is therefore a vital step to enabling efficient energy grids and combining deliveries where multiple stops are possible. One increasing the use of renewable energy. client wanted to go one step further and improve efficiency of driver behavior, so we worked with them to install in-vehicle Reducing water consumption using Capgemini’s driver monitoring systems that track driving style, adherence to analytics platforms route and actual fuel efficiency compared to projections. Drivers Water companies have made huge progress in reducing leakage are awarded points for eco-efficient driving, and those not in recent years, but innovation in the ways it is managed going meeting the expected threshold require a briefing and review of forward is critical to addressing water scarcity and balancing 3 their style and route, thus encouraging efficient driving, saving demand while reducing service costs. An essential enabler for fuel and reducing fuel emissions. meeting this requirement is business-driven analytics: insights that enable clients to tackle the key optimization problems Accelerating the transition towards sustainable energy inherent in managing leakage, by integrating and analyzing The energy sector is undergoing a massive transformation on a multiple data sources – including both current and historic data, global scale, evolving from a fossil-fuel based system to embrace and both internal and external sources. Capgemini has renewable energy, and from commodity to a Digital services developed an As-a-Service Analytics platform that helps sector. To tap into the potential of new technologies and identifying where on the network leakage is likely to occur, and address sustainability challenges, utilities require a new business when a leak does occur, narrowing the search area to find and fix strategy. Capgemini has developed an offering to help energy it as quickly as possible. It also helps in allocating capital companies transform, from a utility company into an energy expenditure to vulnerable infrastructure before leaks occur and services company (U2ES). to optimize the pressure on the network to prevent from leaks. As a strategic innovation partner of Capgemini in this This platform has achieved some very encouraging results for field, Eneco, the leading Dutch energy company has been large UK water companies. The platform is proven to detect 84% increasingly focused on sustainability in the last decade. As well of leaks and alert a leak 21 days earlier than the current average. as investing in renewable energy, Eneco has introduced smart This not only reduces water consumption, but also saves energy energy solutions to its customers. A key example is the Toon, and reduces carbon by reducing the amount of water needing to Eneco’s smart thermostat and smart home solution which is be pumped, cleaned and processed in the network. Utilities is estimated to help customers reduce their energy consumption just one field in which our ability to condense and process data is by 10% per year, providing customers and energy providers with providing significant and growing opportunities to help our tangible consumption pattern data. clients achieve their sustainability goals. Eneco, its subsidiary Quby and Capgemini have partnered to Energy optimization as a service make the Toon available to other utility companies, thereby helping to accelerate the energy transition. Leveraging the Building on the same As-a-Service Analytics platform and Group’s global presence, our Cloud Infrastructure Services unit approach, Capgemini’s Energy Optimization service enhances will operate the new platform behind Toon and Capgemini and extends the functionality of traditional building energy Consulting is involved in driving the joint go-to-market including management systems. fulfilment scale up preparations. Building on Eneco’s initial Typically, today’s systems analyze the “as-is” position within a success, the partnership will be a powerful enabler for reducing building. Together with some historic data, this enables an energy consumption and for other smart and sustainable energy engineer to monitor the system via a terminal, with the intention solutions around homes and offices such as electric mobility, of recognizing any anomalies and resolving them in as efficient a solar power and energy storage. manner as possible via human interaction. Capgemini’s approach is to collect far more data regarding the energy profile of an estate, link it with other data sets – such as weather and real-time occupation statistics – to make adjustments through a direct feedback loop. This rapidity of reaction provided by the real-time bi-directional control of energy management enables the fine-tuning of the system at a rate faster than that which can be achieved with human intervention, significantly increasing the efficiency with which energy usage is optimized, leading in turn to significant extra savings. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 161 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.4 Environmental Sustainability Key to the approach is the collection of data from multiple Enabling sustainable and resilient cities monitoring systems across each building within an estate Capgemini is involved in public-private consortia that accelerate without the expensive overhead of implementing additional the deployment of innovative platforms to support citizen physical metering. Utilizing “Big Data” analytics and the IoT for services and the energy transition. Projects such as Descartes 21 data management, Capgemini may: (Marne la Vallée, France) will industrialize the design and  monitor energy and reduce energy consumption of an estate, implementation of connected platforms that will enable the globally; transformation to more sustainable and resilient cities. The project organization involves representatives from the city  rapidly identify and resolve break/fix issues within the estate; council, operators, energy suppliers and citizens who cooperate  improve preventative maintenance, exploiting historic fail and on the design of new use cases and business models for the mean time to fail data; global city ecosystem. Capgemini provides the technology that  micro manage the climate within a building, both reducing enables smart cities to plan, manage and control multi-energy energy use and improving the working environment; systems, and the platforms that connect public equipment in order to enhance operational efficiency and reduce energy  provide engineers with the capability to review the system on consumption. the device of their choice on a truly mobile basis. 162 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.5 Methodology and scope for non-financial information 3.5 Methodology and scope for non-financial information 3.5.1 Methodology and scope The Group’s HR and labor data are provided by three sources for As of 2017, all learning not tracked in the system is not reported general management and reporting purposes: on any longer. The reason for this is that tracked hours are >95% of all formal learning in MyLearning, and we aim for a 100%.  the Group financial reporting tool, which provides data Reporting only on system-tracked hours allow us to have full reported monthly or quarterly using common indicators, such visibility down to the individual learning activity and secures an as total permanent headcount (permanent and fixed-term contracts including non-actively working, excluding temporary auditable trail. 3 agencies staff, individual freelancers, independent workers, Hours of training tracked by the business units via MyLearning subcontractors, trainees) and movements (hires/ acquisitions/ system are calculated on the basis of the predefined duration of departures/ turnover rate) as of December 31, 2017. The each training session (and not on the time effectively spent by scope of this data is Group-wide and therefore there is a employees on the training). perfect match between the sustainability reporting and the Environmental sustainability specific methodology is explained in financial reporting for all indicators consolidated through this the corresponding chapter. tool; Consistency checks and trend analysis are performed regularly to  an internal Business Intelligence (BI) tool, which is interfaced ensure the quality of data and in case of doubt or inaccuracies, with most local HR systems. It provides monthly statistics on corresponding data are excluded. The coverage rate indicated seniority, age range, gender and grading, whenever legal. 97% for each indicator reported below only includes data deemed of Group employee’s data are consolidated within this tool; A relevant and appropriate, even though the intention is to ensure few countries are not interfaced yet due to either very a full coverage. Whenever an explanation on methodology is stringent regulations on data privacy (Germany) or time necessary, the paragraph below provides with it. required to get agreement and to build the appropriate interfaces; and All labor aspects of Article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial  a questionnaire collecting labor and societal indicators, which Code are covered in this report as, based on our analysis, they are either qualitative or only needed annually. are declared relevant for our business. For learning and development, the Group has implemented a system accessible to all employees by simply registering, MyLearning. The system encompasses the full learning catalog (on site and virtual courses, webcasts, videos…). It enables monitoring and tracking of the training delivered. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 163 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.5 Methodology and scope for non-financial information 3.5.2 Grenelle II correlation table The following Grenelle II table details the indicators included in the legislation and on which Capgemini has reported. When not reporting on a given indicator, the explanation is provided. HR data indicators ■Y ■N Explanation a) Employment See pages 129 to 132 ■ Total headcount; Distribution of employees by gender, age and geographical area ■ and 138 to 139 ■ Recruitments and redundancies ■ See pages 130-131 ■ Remunerations and their evolution ■ See page 142 b) Work organization ■ Working time organization ■ See page 131-132 See page 131 Excluding India, where the indicator ■ Absenteeism ■ is not currently tracked. c) Labor relations See page 145 ■ Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, ■ Excluding India, where no collective consultation and negotiation with the employees bargaining is conducted. ■ Summary of collective agreements ■ See page 145 d) Health and safety ■ Occupational health and safety conditions ■ See pages 143-144 ■ Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions or the representatives See pages 143-144 ■ of the company health and safety committee Excluding India. ■ Occupational accidents including accident frequency and severity rates, and ■ See page 144 occupational diseases e) Training ■ Policies implemented regarding training ■ See pages 134-135 ■ Total number of training hours ■ See page 135 f) Equal opportunity ■ Measures implemented to promote gender equality ■ See pages 137-139 ■ Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled people ■ See pages 140-141 ■ Policy against discrimination ■ See page 141 g) Promotion and compliance with ILO fundamental conventions relative to: ■ The freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining ■ ■ The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ■ See pages 121, 123, 124 and 145 ■ The elimination of all forms of forced labor ■ ■ The abolition of child labor ■ 164 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.5 Methodology and scope for non-financial information Environmental indicators ■Y ■N Explanation a) General environmental policy ■ The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding ■ See pages 120 and 148-155 environmental issues ■ Information and training measures for employees regarding ■ See page 160 the protection of the environment Capgemini manages our environmental risks and pollution through a combination of our climate change risk assessment methodology (see pages 150 and 159) and our globally certified ISO 14001 ■ Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and pollution ■ environmental management system (see page 148). In addition, Capgemini has set ambitious science-based targets to reduce our 3 material environmental impacts (see page 150). ■ Amount of the environmental risks provisions and guarantees, unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the company in ■ As above an ongoing litigation b) Pollution Our main source of pollutant emissions to air (although an indirect one) is from the business travel our people undertake by air, road and rail ■ Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges into the ■ (see pages 152-153). We manage and monitor atmosphere, water and soil, impacting severely the environment F-gas emissions (see page 149) and other potential pollutants as part of our ISO 14001 certified management systems (see pages 150 and 151) Due to the nature of our business noise pollution ■ ■ Consideration of noise and of any other activity specific pollution is not a material impact. c) Circular Economy i) Waste prevention and management ■ measures of prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and See pages 153-154 disposal of waste ■ ■ Actions against food waste ■ See page 154 ii) Sustainable use of resources ■ Water consumption and water supply adapted to the local constraints ■ See page 161 ■ Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to improve Due to the nature of our business we do not ■ efficiency in their use consume raw materials. ■ Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy ■ See pages 150-152 efficiency and renewable energy use As we do not own or lease significant amounts ■ Land usage ■ of land or green space, land use is not a material impact for our business. d) Climate Change ■ Significant greenhouse gas emissions items generated as a result of the Group’s activity, particularly by the use of goods and services they ■ See pages 150-156 provide. ■ Adaptation to consequences of climate change ■ See pages 159-160 e) Biodiversity protection Biodiversity is not a material aspect at Group level, as there is very little green space at our office ■ Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity ■ locations. However, we do give specific examples of biodiversity initiatives undertaken in France in Chapter 3.3.4 page 160. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 165 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.5 Methodology and scope for non-financial information Social and communities indicators ■Y ■N Explanation a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the company activity: ■ regarding regional employment and development ■ See page 132 ■ on the local populations ■ See pages 146 and 147 b) Relations with stakeholders , including associations of integration, educational institutes, associations for the protection of the Environment, consumers organization and local populations ■ Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders ■ See page 122 ■ Actions of partnership and sponsorship ■ See page 147 c) Subcontractors and suppliers ■ Integration of social and environmental issues into the company procurement ■ See pages 126-127 policy ■ Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with ■ See pages 124-127 subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility d) Fair business practices ■ Action implemented against corruption ■ See page 123 Due to the nature of our activities, we are not faced with consumers and are not ■ Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety ■ building products which may impact health or security of consumers e) Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights ■ Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights ■ See pages 123-124 166 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.6 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information 3.6 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience 3 of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended 31 December 2017 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Cap Gemini S.E. (the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1049 (1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended December 31st 2017, included in the management report (hereinafter named CSR Information ), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board is responsible for preparing a company's management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the Guidelines ), summarised in the management report and available on request from the company's head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Statutory Auditor’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to:  attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information);  express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information);  at the request of the company and out of the scope of certification, express reasonable assurance, that information selected by the Group (2) and identified by the symbol √ in the chapter 3 of the management report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines (Reasonable assurance on a selection of CSR information). However, it is not our responsibility to pronounce on the compliance with the relevant legal provisions applicable if necessary, in particular those envisaged by article L. 225-102-4 of the French Commercial Code (Duty of care) and by the law n ° 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 known as Sapin II (fight against corruption). Our work involved six persons and was conducted between October 2017 and February 2018 during a twelve week period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of statutory auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000 (3) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. (1) “whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr” (2) Human resources indicators: Total headcount, Workforce broken down by geographical area, age and gender, Number of external hires, Total turnover rate, Number of training hours.Environmental indicators: Office direct energy consumption, Total direct energy consumption, Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel, Total greenhouse gas emissions, Total greenhouse gas emissions per employee. (3) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 167 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.6 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological notes, presented in section 3 of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted around ten interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to:  assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate;  verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important (4):  at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report;  at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us (5) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 53% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 66% and 80% of environmental data considered as material data (6) of environmental issues. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. (4) Quantitative information: Human resources indicators: Total headcount, Workforce broken down by geographical area, age and gender, Number of external hires, Total turnover rate, Number of training hours, Absenteeism ratio, Breakdown of part-time workforce, Percentage of employees who had a performance and career review.Environmental indicators: Office direct energy consumption, Total direct energy consumption, Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel, Total greenhouse gas emissions, Total greenhouse gas emissions per employee. Qualitative information: Policies implemented regarding training, Measures implemented to promote gender equality, policies implemented regarding employment and integration of disabled persons, Policy against discrimination, The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues and the certification process regarding environmental issues, Adaptation to climate change, Impact of the company activity on the local populations, Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders, Integration of social and environmental issues into the company’s procurement policy, Actions taken to prevent corruption, Cyber-security and data protection. (5) Human resources indicators: Capgemini Brazil, Capgemini India (ACIS, FS and BSv) Environmental indicators: Capgemini India, Capgemini France, Capgemini Brazil, Capgemini Poland, Capgemini North America. (6) See list of environnemental indicators presented in footnote n°4 of this report. 168 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.6 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. 3. Reasonable assurance on a selection of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work For the information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol √, our audit consisted of work of the same nature as described in paragraph 2 above for CSR information considered the most important, but in more depth, particularly regarding the number of tests. The selected sample represents represents 53% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 66% and 80% of quantitative environmental information identified by the symbol √ published. We consider that this work enables us to express a conclusion of reasonable assurance for the information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol √. 3 Conclusion In our opinion, the information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol √ is fairly presented, in all material respects, in compliance with the Guidelines. Paris La Défense, February 20, 2018 Sustainability Services KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 169 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 170 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 4 Financial information 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 4.4 2017 financial statements 250 consolidated results 172 4.4.1 Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016 and 2017 250 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended over the past year 172 December 31, 2016 and 2017 252 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group 4.4.3 Notes to the financial statements 253 consolidated financial statements and outlook 4.4.4 Subsidiaries and investments 269 for 2018 177 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 270 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 179 4.4.6 Statutory Auditors’ special report on related 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 179 party agreements and commitments 273 4.2.2 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 180 4.5 Other Financial and accounting 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of financial position 181 information 275 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows 182 4.5.1 Five-Year Financial Summary 275 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 183 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 184 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 242 4.3 Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements 247 4.3.1 Income statement 247 4.3.2 Balance sheet 247 4.3.3 Appropriation of earnings 248 4.3.4 Share capital and ownership structure 249 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 171 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year Capgemini’s 2017 performance reflects the Group’s ability to (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising from legal create value for its customers and capture in particular the reorganizations. Adjusted for this non-recurring non-cash item, demand fueled by their Digital transformation agendas, while the effective tax rate was also 27.3% in 2016. pursuing its profitable growth journey. Net profit (Group share) amounted to €820 million for 2017, The Group generated revenues of €12,792 million in 2017, up compared with €921 million for 2016. Basic earnings per share 2.0% compared with 2016. Excluding the Brazilian equipment for fiscal year 2017 are €4.88 and diluted earnings per share resale business being discontinued, growth is 4.0% at constant are €4.76. The Group defines Normalized earnings per share as exchange rates, above the 3% target set at the beginning of the basic earnings per share adjusted for the items recognized in year. Organic growth, which also exclude the impact of change in “Other operating income and expense”, net of tax calculated Group scope, stands at 3.6%. using the effective tax rate. Normalized earnings per share are €6.22 in 2017, representing a 11% increase on 2016 normalized The Group continued to transition its business portfolio towards earnings per share adjusted for the one-off tax profit. Digital and Cloud offerings at a rapid pace. Business generated by those new client needs grew 24% at constant exchange rates Group cash flow from operations improved in 2017: after income to €4.9 billion and account for 38% of Capgemini’s revenues. tax payments of €139 million (compared with €167 million Digital and Cloud market has matured and clients are now in 2016) and cash consumed by the change in operating working seeking more extensive roll-out of these innovations, increasing capital of €63 million (compared with cash generated of the size of contracts. The global strategic partnership contract €37 million in 2016), net cash from operating activities increased signed with McDonald’s, notably to digitalize the customer €11 million year-on-year to €1,330 million. Capital expenditures, experience, is a good example. net of disposals, increased €50 million to €226 million, representing 1.9% of revenues. Net interest paid and received The operating margin is €1,493 million, or 11.7% of revenues, an resulted in a cash outflow of €24 million, compared with increase of 4% or 20 basis points year-on-year, in line with annual €72 million in 2016. Organic free cash flow generated by the objectives. Profitability continues to improve, reflecting the Group therefore is up year-on-year to €1,080 million, exceeding Group’s ability to pursue industrialization (rightshore model, the €950 million objective set at the beginning of the year. standardization of operations, increased automation) while rapidly expanding its innovation businesses. Geographically, this In 2017, Capgemini paid a dividend of €262 million, devoted improvement is driven primarily by higher profitability in Europe, €176 million to the multi-year share buyback program and spent combining remarkable Digital and Cloud growth and strong €238 million, net, on acquisitions. In addition, in the context of offshoring demand. the 4th employee share ownership plan, the Group spent €360 million under the share buyback agreement to neutralize Other operating income and expenses total €310 million, dilution and received €322 million from the corresponding share compared with €292 million in 2016. Higher restructuring costs capital increase. of €131 million are offset by lower acquisition and integration costs of €38 million. Overall, the balance sheet structure remained broadly unchanged in 2017. At December 31, 2017 the Group had Operating profit totaled €1,183 million, or 9.2% of revenues, €1,988 million in cash and cash equivalents (net of bank compared with €1,148 million in 2016. overdrafts), compared with €1,870 million a year earlier. After Financial expenses represent a net charge of €72 million, down accounting for borrowings of €3,372 million, cash management from €146 million in 2016. This follows a reduction in interest assets and derivative instruments, Group net debt is charge on borrowings following the early redemption of the €1,209 million at the end of 2017, down on €1,413 million at ORNANE bonds at the end of 2016 and the early unwinding of December 31, 2016. USD debt hedging instruments in 2017. Deferred tax assets total €1,283 million at the end of the year. The Group recorded a tax expense of €303 million in 2017, They include €554 million of US tax loss carry-forwards, after representing an effective tax rate of 27.3%. This amount taking into account the following changes which had a includes the net impact of changes in deferred tax assets in the non-significant net impact on the 2017 tax expense: United States, notably resulting from the changes to tax rates  the impact of the change in the US tax rate, which led to a under the US tax reform. In 2016, the tax expense was decrease in deferred tax assets of €295 million; €94 million, following the recognition of non-cash tax income 172 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results  the outlook for taxable profits in the United States which has Given the evolution of tax loss carry forwards and the tax reforms increased since the last remeasurement of US deferred tax adopted, particularly in the United States, Capgemini estimates assets in 2015, and led to the recognition of new deferred tax that the effective tax rate should increase by 3 to 4 percentage assets of €299 million. All tax losses carried forward in the points in 2018, without any material impact on disbursements United States are now recognized in the Group’s consolidated and therefore on free cash-flow. The evaluation of some other financial statements at December 31, 2017. measures included in the US tax reform is still under process. Operations by major region 13% 4 31% United Kingdom & Ireland North America 21% France 8% 27% Asia-Paciﬁc & Latin America Rest of Europe North America revenues (31% of Group revenues) grew 5.0% at Services. The Financial Services and Retail & Consumer Goods constant exchange rates in 2017 to €3,923 million, with a strong sectors reported growth in excess of 10%. The operating margin acceleration in the second half of the year, reflecting the impact increased 80 basis points to 9.9%, or €267 million. of recent investments. This was mainly driven by the The Rest of Europe (27% of Group revenues) reported revenue Manufacturing, Retail & Consumer Goods and Financial Services growth of 8.6% at constant exchange rates, driven by Germany, sectors. The Energy & Utilities sector full year revenues were Scandinavia and Italy, where growth rates came close to or down but returned to growth as of Q3. The operating margin is exceeded 10%. Benelux and Spain also grew in 2017. Business mix €529 million. The operating margin rate fell 190 basis points continued to evolve rapidly, with increased offshoring demand year-on-year to 13.5% of revenues, impacted by strong price (+20% growth in volume year-on-year) and growing activity in pressure on some large contract renewals in the first-half and Digital and Cloud. The operating margin increased 150 basis investments to accelerate growth in the region. points year-on-year to 12.0% of revenues, or €418 million. The United Kingdom and Ireland (13% of Group revenues) The Asia-Pacific and Latin American region (8% of Group reported revenues down 9.6% at constant exchange rates to revenues) reported growth of 7.9% at constant exchange rates €1,681 million, reflecting the decline in the public sector in 2017, with contrasting trends again this year. Growth in the anticipated from the beginning of the year while the private Asia-Pacific region remains very strong, supported by the sector (63% of region revenues) is growing slightly. The development of the Financial Services, Retail & Consumer Goods operating margin is €254 million, representing a 50 basis point and Energy sectors. Business declined further in Latin America increase in the operating margin rate on 2016 to 15.1% of However, following the stabilization of the situation in Brazil revenues. The Group noted a business slowdown in the toward the end of the year and vibrant activity in Mexico, Latin second half with notably longer client decision cycles. America is back to growth in the fourth quarter. The operating France (21% of Group revenues) reported revenue growth of margin for the region improved significantly to 9.8% in 2017, 5.2% to €2,700 million, with Digital and Cloud demand driving from 6.6% in 2016. strong momentum in Application Services and Consulting REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 173 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results Results by business Technology & Engineering Services (15% of Group revenues) progressed 4.7% at constant exchange rates. France and 18% Scandinavia carried the momentum this year. The Other Managed Energy & Utilities sector also stood out with double digit growth. Services The operating margin improved 80 basis points to 13.6%. Application Services revenues (62% of Group revenues) 5% increased 6.6%, with growth of ca. 10% in France, Germany, Italy, Scandinavia and Asia. Strong Digital and Cloud demand continues Consulting to drive business activity. Like for the rest of the Group, the Services 62% Manufacturing and Retail & Consumer Goods sectors reported the highest growth. The operating margin rate is 12.9%, up Application 15% 20 basis points on 2016. Services Technology Other Managed Services (18% of Group revenues) contracted and Engineering 6.4% at constant exchange rates. The anticipated decline in Services the UK public sector and in infrastructure services where the portfolio transition continues to exert pressure were the primary causes. Business Services (Business Process Outsourcing Consulting Services (5% of Group revenues) grew 14% at and platforms) remained generally stable. The operating margin constant exchange rates, with sustained demand in the main fell 80 basis points year-on-year to 9.2%. continental European countries. Activity is fueled by the Digital transformation needs of the Group’s clients, notably in the Manufacturing, Financial Services and Retail & Consumer Goods sectors. The operating margin stands at 11.2% of revenues, up 50 basis points year-on-year. Results by business Revenues (in millions of euros) 2016 2017 Consulting Services 506 584 Technology & Engineering Services 1,873 1,927 Application Services 7,557 7,940 Other Managed Services 2,603 2,341 TOTAL GROUP 12,539 12,792 Operating margin (as a % of revenues) 2016 2017 Consulting Services 10.7% 11.2% Technology & Engineering Services 12.8% 13.6% Application Services 12.7% 12.9% Other Managed Services 10.0% 9.2% TOTAL GROUP 11.5% 11.7% The following table presents the utilization rates (on a like-forlike basis) measuring the percentage of work time, excluding vacation, of production employees. 2016 2017 Utilization rate Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Consulting Services 70% 71% 68% 70% 71% 72% 69% 72% Technology & Engineering Services 82% 83% 83% 83% 82% 84% 85% 84% Application Services 81% 81% 82% 81% 81% 81% 82% 83% 174 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results Headcount in-store experiences. The acquisition of these specialists, reputed for delivering Salesforce Commerce Cloud At December 31, 2017, the total Group headcount is e-commerce solutions, also positions the Group as a global 199,698 employees compared with 193,077 employees one year leader for Salesforce Commerce Cloud solutions; earlier. This 6,621 net increase (+3.4%) reflects:  the Group also completed two focused acquisitions in North  53,693 additions; and America in February: Idean, with its network of Digital studios,  47,072 departures (including 38,578 resignations), representing a boosts the Group’s Digital transformation and experience weighted attrition rate of 18.9% (compared with 18.3% in 2016). design consultancy offering, while TCube Solutions, a specialist in Duck Creek insurance software, strengthens the Order book Group’s expertise in this major sector. Bookings totaled €12,890 million during the year, slightly higher Capgemini equally continued to develop an innovation-friendly than 2016 bookings of €13,027 million (+1% at constant exchange ecosystem: rates), with a book-to-bill ratio of 1.01.  the Group expanded its global network of innovation centers, adding two new Applied Innovation Exchanges (AIE). The Significant events of 2017 Singapore AIE offers an extensive service portfolio, focusing 2017 marks the 50th year of the Group founded by Serge Kampf. on data analysis, visualization, artificial intelligence and In October, Capgemini launched its new brand identity using cognitive IT solutions (February). A further innovation center three fundamental differentiators to reflect Capgemini’s unique was opened at the heart of New York’s Silicon Alley, bringing character and strengths as a business partner: dynamism, together the Fahrenheit 212 teams that joined the Group precision and people. in 2016 (October); Key events during the year at Group level included:  Capgemini launched the Serge Kampf Awards to recognize 4 outstanding innovation and entrepreneurship worldwide  the appointment by the Board of Directors on October 11, (February); 2017 of Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat as Chief Operating  the Group also again organized the InnovatorsRace50, a Officers. These appointments took effect on January 1, 2018 worldwide competition for early stage start-ups to showcase and form part of management transition preparation measures the potential of their projects and services (April and June). announced by Paul Hermelin at the 2017 Shareholder’s Meeting; These initiatives helped strengthen Capgemini’s Digital leadership, as demonstrated by the range of engagements and  the success of the fourth employee share ownership plan contracts won across many economic sectors. The Group aimed at associating employees with the development and communicated on these wins and particularly: performance of the Group (November). This plan was subscribed 124%. The new Employee Share Ownership Plan  in the Retail & Consumer Goods sector: (ESOP) of 3.6 million shares helps maintain employee share ❚ Capgemini announced in August an iconic multi-year ownership at close to 5% of the capital. The dilutive effect of contract to become McDonald’s global strategic provider the capital increase was neutralized by share purchases under and accelerate its Digital technology innovation and the share buyback agreement. In reducing the share capital by transform the customer experience. With this contract, the 1.8% (3.1 million shares) over 2017, Capgemini demonstrated Group shows it can be the Digital innovation partner of the its ability to associate employees with the development and most prestigious international clients and leverage a performance of the Group while delivering an attractive strategic alliance initiated by IGATE, acquired in 2015, return to shareholders. ❚ the Group was also selected to transform the customer On the financial front, the Standard & Poor’s financial rating experience of a leading American cruise line (April) and a agency upgraded Capgemini’s outlook from stable to positive, French international retailer (July). Capgemini built a confirming its BBB long-term credit rating. This decision mainly Data Lake with advanced analytical modeling and deployed reflects growing confidence in the Group’s continued solid a CRM Cloud system for the cruise line and implemented financial performance (May). several Digital Marketing solutions for the French retailer, In 2017, the Group reached a major operating milestone in its from advanced customer data analysis to focused marketing growth-driving transition to Digital and the Cloud. This included a campaigns, number of focused acquisitions to accelerate the process in ❚ the Group won a contract to implement its Odigo platform certain areas: at a European chain store’s contact center to improve  the Group strengthened its leadership in Digital and customer relationship management (July); omnichannel commerce with the announcement of the  in the Manufacturing sector: acquisition of Itelios in March, followed by the US company, ❚ the Group won several major deals, including with a German Lyons Consulting Group, in November. These teams of experts automotive supplier (April) and a leading aircraft design, develop and implement e-commerce solutions for manufacturer (July). The Group’s Digital Manufacturing leading retail and B2B brands. These solutions help set them offerings launched in 2016 and strong dynamics around apart from the competition and build client loyalty, offering a product life-cycle management solutions underpinned these unified customer journey across Digital, social, mobile and wins, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 175 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results ❚ the Group was also selected in North America by a global  construction of a Digital platform hosted on a public Cloud, electronics company to accompany its Digital transformation delivering a better customer experience to an Asian telecoms through setting-up a Digital plant and implementing product operator (October). lifecycle management solutions (April), During its Capital Markets Day in September, the Group ❚ finally, Capgemini built a Digital plant for a leading presented several customer case studies illustrating the rapid aerospace group, providing data analysis for use in transition of its activities to Digital and the Cloud. Capgemini also monitoring satellite production and investigating possible confirmed its operating margin (between 12.5% and 13.0%) and anomalies (April); organic growth (between 5% and 7%) ambitions.  in the Financial Services & Insurance sector: The Group also presented a progress report on the automation ❚ Capgemini partnered with an American bank to help it of its IT services. Automation projects currently focus primarily increase its US market share through new products, services on the outsourcing of business processes and infrastructure and/or innovative experiences, leveraging Fahrenheit 212 management. They have demonstrated that value creation expertise (April), mainly stems from reduced turnaround time, improved quality and user experience. Accordingly: ❚ the Group was chosen to accompany a Scandinavian financial institution in its IT and financial transformation journey and  at a utility company in the United-Kingdom, the automation of provide cost-efficient and effective management of its IT service desk operations leveraging Capgemini’s Odigo and IT landscape, to support its growth and performance (April); third-party technologies led to a 20% reduction in incidents with over 80% successful dialogue with the virtual agent;  finally, in the Energies & Utilities sector:  the automation of the deep monitoring of mission critical ❚ Capgemini implemented Business Intelligence and DevOps applications at a global media and entertainment group agile technologies with SAP HANA for a major global oil and enabled ten times faster incident resolution and a 30% gas company (April), reduction in incidents; ❚ the Group also announced the implementation of  at a Europe-headquartered global furniture retailer, the Salesforce in a leading European energy company (April) automation of payment alerts processing allowed better and provided a US energy company with application consumer experience with an 80% drop in point-of-sale development, Cloud hosting and maintenance for payment issues and a 70% reduction in resolution time; web-based applications for energy conservation and efficiency programs (October).  the automation of the incident management process using natural language processing (NLP) leveraging and feeding a Cloud migration, both public and private, continues to develop knowledge database led to a 15% reduction in turnaround rapidly. It remains an additional growth lever for Capgemini, as time at a British retail company. illustrated by the following contracts: The Group also announced in November, a two-year agreement  massive migration (several hundred applications) to a private with the UK Cabinet Office to develop a Robotic Process Cloud for a major US bank and to the Amazon Web Services Automation (RPA) Center of Excellence. public Cloud for a global leader in the beverages industry (April); Finally, in September the Group published the results of a study of 1,000 companies implementing artificial intelligence, countering  transformation of the infrastructure of one of the world’s fears that AI will cause massive job losses in the short-term and leading healthcare insurance organizations, moving its data highlighting the associated growth opportunities. and services to a private Cloud (April);  development of new APIs (application programming interfaces, enabling software components to communicate) for a leading US bank (April); 176 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group consolidated financial statements and outlook for 2018 Consolidated Income Statement Operating profit is €1,183 million (9.2% of revenues), compared with €1,148 million in 2016 (9.2% of revenues). Consolidated revenues total €12,792 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared with €12,539 million in 2016, up The net financial expense is €72 million, compared with 2.0% on published figures. Excluding the Brazilian equipment €146 million in 2016. This improvement is mainly due to lower resale activity, revenues increased 4.0% at constant exchange net finance costs following a reduction in the Group’s net debt rates, with organic growth of 3.6%. and the refinancing of the 2011 bond issue with the more favorable 2016 bond issue, the recognition of a profit on the Operating expenses total €11,299 million, compared with early unwinding of the EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps €11,099 million in 2016. in 2017 and the impact of the early redemption of the An analysis of costs by nature highlights a €391 million increase ORNANE 2013 bonds at the end of 2016. in personnel costs (5.1%) to €8,002 million for 2017. Personnel The income tax expense is €303 million, compared with costs represent 62.6% of revenues compared with 60.7% €94 million in 2016. The effective tax rate is 27.3% in 2017, in 2016. The average headcount rose 6% in 2017 to 196,755, stable on 2016 excluding the tax income (net) of €180 million in compared with 185,593 in 2016. Offshore employees represent respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings. At 57% of the total Group headcount, compared with 56% in 2016. December 31, 2017, the income tax expense includes the An analysis of costs by function reveals: financial impact of the US tax reforms (€-312 million) and the  the cost of services rendered is €9,408 million, or 73.5% of recognition of deferred tax on US tax loss carried-forwards revenues, down 0.2 points on 2016. The gross margin is 26.5% (€+299 million), to reflect the change in the taxable profit 4 of revenues in 2017, compared with 26.7% in 2016; outlook since the last remeasurement of US deferred tax assets in 2015.  selling costs total €1,019 million, or 8.0% of revenues, a slight percentage decrease on last year; Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is €820 million in 2017, compared with €921 million in 2016. This  general and administrative expenses total €872 million (6.8% represents an increase of 11% year-on-year, after adjustment for of revenues), a 0.2 point decrease on 2016 due to a strict cost the tax income (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising control policy. on legal restructurings. Normalized earnings per share are The operating margin is therefore €1,493 million in 2017, therefore €6.22 based on an average of 168,057,561 ordinary compared with €1,440 million in 2016, representing a margin shares outstanding in 2017, compared with €6.69 based on an rate of 11.7% (11.5% in 2016). average of 169,450,721 ordinary shares outstanding in 2016, Other operating income and expense increased from a net including the tax income (net) of €180 million in respect of expense of €292 million in 2016 to €310 million in 2017, due to goodwill arising on legal restructurings. higher restructuring costs and an increase in the performance share grant expense, partially offset by lower acquisition and integration costs. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 177 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis of Capgemini Group 2017 consolidated results Consolidated Statement of Financial Position the ESOP 2017 international share ownership plan, partially offset by: Equity attributable to owners of the Company totaled €6,956 million at December 31, 2017, down €316 million on  the payment to shareholders of a dividend of €262 million; December 31, 2016. This decrease was mainly due to:  cash outflows and inflows on business combinations, net of  a €781 million reduction in foreign exchange translation cash and cash equivalents acquired, of €238 million; reserves;  cash outflows of €531 million in respect of transactions in  the payment to shareholders of a dividend of €262 million; Capgemini SE shares.  the elimination of treasury shares for €534 million, Application of IFRS 15 from January 1, 2018 partially offset by profit for the year of €820 million and incentive and employee share ownership instruments for The application of IFRS 15 on January 1, 2018 will primarily €393 million and particularly the impact of the €320 million share impact the resale of hardware, software and services, that the capital increase under the ESOP 2017 international employee Group may carry out, particularly at the request of customers. share ownership plan. From now on, a larger proportion of these revenues will be recorded on a net basis (i.e. revenues invoiced to clients less Non-current assets totaled €9,854 million at December 31, amounts invoiced by suppliers). 2017, down €736 million on December 31, 2016. This was mainly due to a €346 million decrease in goodwill following negative The assessment of the impact that application of IFRS 15 would translation adjustments to goodwill denominated in US dollar have had in 2017 shows: and pound sterling of €613 million, partially offset by goodwill of  a reduction in revenues of €270 million, or 2.1% of published €267 million recognized on acquisitions during the year. revenues, in line with the information communicated in Non-current liabilities fell 13.8% year-on-year to €4,487 million July 2017; at December 31, 2017 (from €5,206 million), mainly due to the  no change in the operating margin in euros, leading to a reclassification in current liabilities of a €500 million bond issue reported operating margin rate of 11.9%, compared with the maturing in July 2018. 11.7% published; Operating receivables (accounts and notes receivable) totaled  no change in the euro amount of net profit, earnings per €3,265 million at December 31, 2017, compared with share (basic, diluted or normalized) or organic free cash flow. €3,074 million at December 31, 2016. Accounts and notes The audit of the results of this assessment will be finalized for receivable, net of advances from clients and amounts billed in the publication of the 2018 half-year results. advance and excluding capitalized costs on projects, remained broadly stable at €2,276 million at December 31, 2017 (€2,244 million at December 31, 2016). Outlook for 2018 Accounts and notes payable mainly consist of trade payables For 2018, the Group aims to accelerate its growth with revenue and related accounts, personnel costs and accrued taxes other progression of 6% to 7% at constant exchange rates, to increase than income tax and totaled €2,837 million at December 31, profitability with an operating margin of 12.0% to 12.2% and to 2017, compared with €2,818 million at December 31, 2016. generate an organic free cash flow in excess of €1 billion. Consolidated net debt totaled €1,209 million at December 31, In addition, the Group expects currency movements to 2017 compared with €1,413 million at December 31, 2016. This negatively impact revenues by around 3.5 points, mainly due to €204 million decrease on December 31, 2016 is mainly due to the appreciation of the euro against the US dollar. the generation of organic free cash flow during the year of This outlook takes into account the application of IFRS 15 from €1,080 million and the €320 million share capital increase under January 1, 2018. 178 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 2016 2017 in millions of euros Notes Amount % Amount % Revenues 4-6 12,539 100 12,792 100 Cost of services rendered (9,183) (73.3) (9,408) (73.5) Selling expenses (1,032) (8.2) (1,019) (8.0) General and administrative expenses (884) (7.0) (872) (6.8) Operating expenses 7 (11,099) (88.5) (11,299) (88.3) Operating margin * 1,440 11.5 1,493 11.7 Other operating income and expense 8 (292) (2.3) (310) (2.5) Operating profit 1,148 9.2 1,183 9.2 4 Net finance costs 9 (104) (0.8) (18) (0.1) Other financial income and expense 9 (42) (0.4) (54) (0.4) Net financial expense (146) (1.2) (72) (0.5) Income tax income (expense) 10 (94) (1) (0.8) (303) (2.4) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 908 7.2 808 6.3 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 921 7.3 820 6.4 Non-controlling interests (13) (0.1) (12) (0.1) EARNINGS PER SHARE Average number of shares outstanding during the year 169,450,721 168,057,561 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 11 5.44 4.88 Diluted average number of shares outstanding 179,080,780 172,082,122 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 11 5.25 4.76 (1) Including tax income (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings. (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 179 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.2 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in millions of euros 2016 2017 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of tax (1) (257) 110 Remeasurement of hedging derivatives, net of tax (2) 53 (61) Translation adjustments (2) 173 (780) OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (31) (731) Profit for the year (reminder) 908 808 Total comprehensive income for the period: 877 77 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 886 88 Non-controlling interests (9) (11) (1) Other items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. (2) Other items of comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. 180 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of financial position in millions of euros Note December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 Goodwill 13-15 7,176 6,830 Intangible assets 13 813 681 Property, plant and equipment 14 754 749 Deferred taxes 16 1,473 1,283 Other non-current assets 18 374 311 Total non-current assets 10,590 9,854 Accounts and notes receivable 19 3,074 3,265 Current tax receivables 132 107 Other current assets 20 627 657 Cash management assets 21 157 168 Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,879 1,988 Total current assets 5,869 6,185 TOTAL ASSETS 16,459 16,039 4 in millions of euros Note December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 Share capital 1,373 1,348 Additional paid-in capital 3,453 3,169 Retained earnings and other reserves 1,525 1,619 Profit for the year 921 820 Equity (attributable to owners of the Company) 7,272 6,956 Non-controlling interests 13 4 Total equity 7,285 6,960 Long-term borrowings 21 3,287 2,783 Deferred taxes 16 227 172 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 24 1,374 1,196 Non-current provisions 25 26 25 Other non-current liabilities 26 292 311 Total non-current liabilities 5,206 4,487 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 21 125 589 Accounts and notes payable 27 2,818 2,837 Advances from customers and billed in advance 19 737 890 Current provisions 25 104 88 Current tax liabilities 109 107 Other current liabilities 26 75 81 Total current liabilities 3,968 4,592 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,459 16,039 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 181 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flows for the period are discussed in Note 22 Cash flows. in millions of euros Notes 2016 2017 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 921 820 Non-controlling interests (13) (12) Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets 299 301 Change in provisions (5) (9) Losses on disposals of assets 6 15 Expenses relating to share grants 54 64 Net finance costs 9 104 18 Income tax expense/(income) 10 94 303 Unrealized gains on changes in fair value and other (11) 32 Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax (A) 1,449 1,532 Income tax paid (B) (167) (139) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (45) (113) Change in capitalized costs on projects 13 (12) Change in accounts and notes payable 128 55 Change in other receivables/payables (59) 7 Change in operating working capital (C) 37 (63) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D = A + B + C) 1,319 1,330 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 13-14 (197) (241) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 21 15 (176) (226) Cash inflows (outflows) on business combinations net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (23) (238) Cash outflows in respect of cash management assets (36) (16) Other cash (outflows) inflows, net (16) (54) (75) (308) NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E) (251) (534) Proceeds from issues of share capital 320 Dividends paid (229) (262) Net payments relating to transactions in Capgemini SE shares (315) (531) Proceeds from borrowings 505 7 Repayments of borrowings (1,004) (97) Interest paid (115) (86) Interest received 43 62 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F) (1,115) (587) NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G = D + E + F) (47) 209 Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (H) (31) (91) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR (I) 21 1,948 1,870 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (G + H + I) 21 1,870 1,988 182 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity ConsoliTotal income dated and expense retained recognized Equity earnings in equity (attributable Additional and to owners NonNumber Share paid-in Treasury other Translation of the controlling Total in millions of euros of shares capital capital shares reserves adjustments Other Company) interests equity At January 1, 2016 172,181,500 1,377 3,499 (75) 2,586 248 (748) 6,887 26 6,913 Dividends paid out for 2015 (229) (229) (229) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 62 15 77 77 Derivatives on Capgemini SE shares, net of tax (32) (32) (32) Early redemption of ORNANE 2013 56 (37) 19 19 4 Elimination of treasury shares (340) (340) (340) Share capital reduction by cancellation of treasury shares (617,235) (4) (46) 50 Transactions with minority shareholders 4 4 (4) Transactions with shareholders (617,235) (4) (46) (172) (279) (501) (4) (505) Income and expense recognized in equity 169 (204) (35) 4 (31) Profit for the year 921 921 (13) 908 At December 31, 2016 171,564,265 1,373 3,453 (247) 3,228 417 (952) 7,272 13 7,285 Dividends paid out for 2016 (262) (262) (262) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 3,600,000 28 292 91 (18) 393 393 Elimination of treasury shares (1) (534) 1 (533) (533) Share capital reduction by cancellation of treasury shares (6,680,523) (53) (576) 629 Transactions with minority shareholders (2) (2) 2 Transactions with shareholders (3,080,523) (25) (284) 186 (281) (404) 2 (402) Income and expense recognized in equity (781) 49 (732) 1 (731) Profit for the year 820 820 (12) 808 At December 31, 2017 168,483,742 1,348 3,169 (61) 3,767 (364) (903) 6,956 4 6,960 (1) Including -€360 million in respect of the share purchase agreement implemented prior to the share capital increase under the ESOP 2017 international employee share ownership plan (see Note 12 Equity). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 183 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 Note 1 Accounting basis 185 Note 18 Other non-current assets 218 Note 2 Consolidation principles and Group Note 19 Accounts and notes receivable 219 structure 187 Note 20 Other current assets 220 Note 3 Alternative performance measures 188 Note 21 Net debt/net cash and cash Note 4 Operating segments 189 equivalents 220 Note 5 Consolidated income statement 193 Note 22 Cash flows 225 Note 6 Revenues 193 Note 23 Currency, interest rate and Note 7 Operating expenses by nature 194 counterparty risk management 227 Note 8 Other operating income and Note 24 Provisions for pensions and other expense 194 post-employment benefits 230 Note 9 Net financial expense 195 Note 25 Non current and current provisions 235 Note 10 Income tax expense 196 Note 26 Other non current and current liabilities 235 Note 11 Earnings per share 198 Note 27 Accounts and notes payable 235 Note 12 Equity 199 Note 28 Number of employees 236 Note 13 Goodwill and intangible assets 209 Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments 236 Note 14 Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) 211 Note 30 Related-party transactions 238 Note 15 Cash-generating units and asset Note 31 Subsequent events 238 impairment tests 213 Note 32 List of the main consolidated Note 16 Deferred taxes 214 companies by country 239 Note 17 Financial instruments 217 Note 33 Audit fees 241 184 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting basis The consolidated financial statements for the year ended The following main issues were identified: December 31, 2017 and the notes thereto were adopted by the  “Principal” versus “agent” Board of Directors on February 14, 2018. The consolidated financial statements will be approved by the Combined As part of its operational activities, the Group can be required Shareholders’ Meeting, scheduled for May 23, 2018. to resell hardware, software and services purchased from third-party suppliers to its customers. IFRS 15 amends the To enable the Group’s legal form to better reflect its principles and indicators determining whether the Group international and European outlook, the Board of Directors of should present these transactions in the Income Statement as Cap Gemini S.A., the Group’s parent company, proposed to a “principal”, on a gross basis (with recognition of purchases in convert the legal form of the Company to a European company operating expenses) or as an “agent”, on a net basis (Societas Europaea, SE). This conversion took effect following its (recognition of revenues equal to amounts invoiced to the approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, customer net of amounts invoiced by the supplier). Pursuant 2017. The Company’s name was changed from “Cap Gemini S.A.” to IFRS 15, the Group considers it acts as a “principal” when it to “Capgemini SE” at the same time. This new corporate name is obtains control of the hardware, software or services before used in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended transferring them to the customer. Based on analyses, the December 31, 2017. Group expects more transactions will be presented on a net basis, resulting in a decrease in consolidated revenues A) IFRS standards-base estimated at €270 million for fiscal year 2017. Pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 1606/2002 of  Identification of performance obligations in outsourcing July 19, 2002, the 2017 consolidated financial statements have services 4 been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards (IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards) as The new standard clarifies the treatment of revenues and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) costs of initial activities, performed before the start or at the and endorsed by the European Union (EU). start of recurring services. Pursuant to the standard, it is necessary to determine whether these activities represent a The Group also takes account of the positions adopted by service benefiting the customer distinct from the outsourcing Syntec Numérique, an organization representing major services, or whether they represent internal start-up activities consulting and computer services companies in France, regarding for a recurring service. In the latter case, revenue can only be the application of certain IFRSs. recognized as the recurring services are rendered and the The main accounting policies are presented at the beginning of initial costs must be capitalized if they create a resource used each note to the consolidated financial statements. in the future performance of services. These clarifications should not have a material impact. B) New standards and interpretations applicable  Measuring the progress of fixed-price services in 2017 Fixed-price systems integration and solution development services will continue to be recognized based on expenditure a) New standards, amendments and interpretations incurred. of mandatory application (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, entered into effect on January 1,  Measuring the progress of outsourcing services 2017) Outsourcing services will generally continue to be recognized The accounting policies applied by the Group are unchanged on as invoicing rights arise, except in specific cases where those applied for the preparation of the 2016 consolidated invoicing terms and conditions do not reflect the value of financial statements, with the exception of new standards, services rendered. amendments and interpretations which entered into effect on  Costs of obtaining contracts January 1, 2017 and which had no material impact on the Group Going forward, the Group will be required to capitalize financial statements. commission and bonuses paid to obtain multi-year contracts. This change should not have a material impact. b) New standards, amendments and interpretations not adopted early (published by the IASB, endorsed  Reimbursements received from customers by the EU, not yet in effect at January 1, 2017) Reimbursements received from customers shall no longer be recognized as a deduction from costs incurred but as b-1) IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers revenues unless the Group is acting as an “agent”. This change IFRS 15 on revenue recognition entered into effect on January 1, should not have a material impact. 2018. The Group has been working with international sector peers and within Syntec Numérique in France on identifying The Group has elected to adopt the full retrospective method implementation terms. At the same time, in 2016, the Group with restatement of 2017 comparative figures and recognition launched an analysis of a sample of contracts representative of of the cumulated effect in equity at January 1, 2017. the different revenue recognition categories. In 2017, the Group (i) completed its interpretation work, identifying the potential areas of impact and (ii) updated the sections of the accounting rules and procedures manual on the recognition of revenue and related costs and rolled out these principles in the Group entities. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 185 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements b-2) IFRS 9 Financial Instruments b-3) IFRS 16 Leases Application of this new standard at January 1, 2018 will not have The Group launched a project in 2017 to identify and analyze the a material impact on the Group consolidated financial contracts concerned by the application of IFRS 16 Leases. This statements. standard enters into effect on January 1, 2019. C) Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements involves the use of estimates and assumptions which may have an impact on the reported values of assets and liabilities at the period end or on certain items of either net profit or the income and expenses recognized directly in equity for the year. Estimates are based on economic data and assumptions which are likely to vary over time and are subject to a degree of uncertainty. They mainly concern revenue recognition on fixed-price contracts accounted for on a percentage-of-completion basis, recognition of deferred tax assets, measurement of the recoverable amount of intangible assets, provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits, the fair value of derivatives, and provisions. 186 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2 Consolidation principles and Group structure Consolidation methods Foreign currency translation The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled by The consolidated accounts presented in these consolidated the parent company are fully consolidated. The parent financial statements have been prepared in euros. company is deemed to exercise control over an entity when it The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. into euros at year-end rates of exchange with the exception of Investments in associates over whose management the parent equity accounts, which are carried at their historical values. company directly or indirectly exercises significant influence, Income statements denominated in foreign currencies are without however exercising full or joint control, are accounted translated into euros at the average rates of exchange for the for by the equity method. This method consists of recording year. However, for certain material transactions, it may be the Group’s share in profit for the year of the associate in the relevant to use a specific rate of exchange. Differences arising Income Statement. The Group’s share in net assets of the from translation at these different rates are recognized associate is recorded under “Other non-current assets” in the directly in equity under “Translation reserves” and have no Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. impact on the Income Statement. Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 32 Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form List of the main consolidated companies by country. an integral part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recognized in equity under “Translation reserves”. All consolidated companies prepared their accounts to 4 December 31, 2017 in accordance with the accounting policies Exchange differences on receivables and payables adopted by the Group. denominated in a foreign currency are recorded in operating income or expense or financial income or expense, depending Inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as on the type of transaction concerned. well as inter-company profits. The Group does not control any special purpose entities that have not been consolidated. The exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows: Average rate Closing rate 2016 2017 2016 2017 Australian dollar 0.67230 0.67970 0.68512 0.65164 Brazilian real 0.26057 0.27831 0.29150 0.25171 Canadian dollar 0.68234 0.68334 0.70482 0.66494 Chinese renminbi yuan 0.13609 0.13122 0.13661 0.12813 Indian rupee 0.01345 0.01362 0.01397 0.01305 Norwegian krone 0.10765 0.10728 0.11006 0.10162 Polish zloty 0.22920 0.23497 0.22674 0.23941 Pound sterling 1.22455 1.14188 1.16798 1.12710 Swedish krona 0.10567 0.10379 0.10469 0.10159 US dollar 0.90404 0.88730 0.94868 0.83382 Business combinations arising on an inter-company monetary asset or liability (e.g. Business combinations are accounted for using the an inter-company receivable denominated in a currency acquisition method. Under this method, the identifiable different from the functional currency of the subsidiary) assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair cannot be eliminated. Such foreign exchange gains and value at the acquisition date and may be adjusted during the losses are recognized in the Income statement or in Income 12 months following this date. and expense recognized directly in equity, if the underlying forms an integral part of the net investment in the foreign Exchange gains and losses on inter-company operation (e.g. a loan with no fixed maturity). transactions The fair values of hedging instruments relating to The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are inter-company operating transactions performed as part of included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements the centralized management of currency risk in the parent after the elimination of inter-company balances and company are eliminated. transactions. However, a foreign exchange gain or loss REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 187 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Acquisitions in 2017 end-to-end Digital services, and positions it as the leader in Salesforce Commerce Cloud based solutions; The Group acquired the following entities in 2017:  Lyons Consulting Group LLC in the United States in  TCube Solutions Inc. in the United States in January 2017, the November 2017, a US e-commerce provider with deep largest independent IT service provider specializing in Duck expertise in Salesforce Commerce Cloud solutions. This Creek Technologies solutions for property and casualty acquisition strengthens the Group’s Digital growth strategy. insurance management. This acquisition aims to accelerate the transition of the Group’s business portfolio, particularly in The fair value remeasurement of the assets and liabilities of North America; these companies and the calculation and determination of goodwill pursuant to IFRS 3 is ongoing and will be finalized  Idean Enterprises Oy in February 2017, a Digital strategy and within 12 months of the acquisition dates. experience design consultancy with a strong presence in the United States and Finland. This acquisition helps the Group meet growing customer demand for end-to-end Digital Disposals in 2017 services; The Group sold its IBX business in early May 2017.  Itelios SAS in France in March 2017, a consulting firm These acquisitions and disposals did not have a material impact specializing in connected commerce. This acquisition will on the Group financial statements for the year ended enable the Group to meet growing customer demand for its December 31, 2017. Note 3 Alternative performance measures The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group  normalized earnings per share are calculated by dividing are defined as follows: normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares  organic growth, or like-for-like growth, in revenues is the outstanding during the period, excluding treasury shares. growth rate calculated at constant Group scope and exchange Normalized net profit or loss is equal to profit for the period rates. The Group scope and exchange rates used are those for attributable to owners of the Company corrected for the the published period; impact of items recognized in “Other operating income and  growth at constant exchange rates in revenues is the expense” (see Note 8 Other operating income and expense), growth rate calculated at exchange rates used for the net of tax calculated using the effective tax rate; published period;  net debt (or net cash and cash equivalents) comprises (i) cash  operating margin is equal to revenues less operating and cash equivalents, as presented in the Consolidated expenses. It is calculated before “Other operating income and Statement of Cash Flows (consisting of short-term expense” which include amortization of intangible assets investments and cash at bank) less bank overdrafts, (ii) cash recognized in business combinations, the charge resulting management assets (assets presented separately in the from the deferred recognition of the fair value of shares Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to their granted to employees (including social security contributions characteristics), less (iii) shortand long-term borrowings. and employer contributions), and non-recurring revenues and Account is also taken of the impact of hedging instruments expenses, notably impairment of goodwill, negative goodwill, when these relate to borrowings and own shares; capital gains or losses on disposals of consolidated companies  organic free cash flow calculated based on items in the or businesses, restructuring costs incurred under a detailed Statement of Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from formal plan approved by the Group’s management, the cost of operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and acquiring and integrating companies acquired by the Group, intangible assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows including earn-outs comprising conditions of presence, and relating to the net interest cost. the effects of curtailments, settlements and transfers of defined benefit pension plans; 188 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 4 Operating segments Group Management analyzes and measures activity performance: The business analysis enables the transversal management and monitoring of resources and service production during the  in the geographic areas where the Group is present; fiscal year in the strategic units, primarily business-focused and  in the different businesses (Consulting Services, Technology therefore the roll-out of uniform expertise and know-how in and Engineering Services, Application Services, and Other all countries and regions. Managed Services). Accordingly, the Group presents segment reporting for the The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the five geographic areas where it is located. performance: Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding  of commercial development: it focuses on trends in major companies on behalf of geographic areas and businesses are contracts and clients in Group markets across all its allocated to the relevant segments either directly or on the businesses. This monitoring seeks to coordinate the service basis of an allocation key. Items not allocated correspond to offering of the different businesses in the countries, given headquarter expenses. their considerable interaction and to measure the services rendered. These analyses are performed by Group Inter-segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length Management within the Coordination Committee of the basis. geographic area, which brings together the business The performance of operating segments is measured based on managers operating in a given area; the operating margin*. This indicator enables the measurement  at operational and financial level: management of treasury and comparison of the operating performance of operating 4 and support services, the operating investment and segments, irrespective of whether their business results from financing policies and the acquisition policy are decided and internal or external growth. implemented by geographic area. The operating margin* realized by the main offshore production centers (India, Poland and China) is reallocated to the geographic areas managing the contracts to enable a better understanding of the performance of these areas. (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. Segment reporting by geographic area The Group communicates segment information for five Segment reporting is supplemented by information on revenues geographic areas: North America, France, United Kingdom and and operating margin for each of the Group’s four businesses. Ireland, the Rest of Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 189 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Analysis of the income statement by geographic area United AsiaKingdom Pacific and North and Rest of Latin HQ 2017 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Europe America expenses Eliminations Total Revenues ■ external 3,923 2,700 1,681 3,478 1,010 12,792 ■ inter-geographic area 114 197 182 274 1,463 (2,230) TOTAL REVENUES 4,037 2,897 1,863 3,752 2,473 (2,230) 12,792 OPERATING MARGIN * 529 267 254 418 99 (74) 1,493 % of revenues 13.5 9.9 15.1 12.0 9.8 11.7 OPERATING PROFIT 412 211 215 353 66 (74) 1,183 United AsiaKingdom Pacific and North and Rest of Latin HQ 2016 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Europe America expenses Eliminations Total Revenues ■ external 3,800 2,567 1,993 3,214 965 12,539 ■ inter-geographic area 151 200 155 273 1,251 (2,030) TOTAL REVENUES 3,951 2,767 2,148 3,487 2,216 (2,030) 12,539 OPERATING MARGIN * 587 234 290 339 64 (74) 1,440 % of revenues 15.4 9.1 14.6 10.5 6.6 11.5 OPERATING PROFIT 487 167 259 288 23 (76) 1,148 (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. 190 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Analysis of assets and liabilities by geographic area AsiaUnited Pacific and At December 31, 2017 North Kingdom Rest of Latin Not (in millions of euros) America France and Ireland Europe America allocated Eliminations Total Assets by geographical area ■ external 3,436 2,623 1,502 2,854 1,796 36 12,247 ■ inter-geographic area 58 83 48 72 202 32 (495) TOTAL ASSETS 3,494 2,706 1,550 2,926 1,998 68 (495) 12,247 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1) 35 51 30 42 126 1 285 Deferred tax assets 1,283 Income tax assets 179 Cash management assets 168 Cash and cash equivalents 1,988 Derivative instruments 174 TOTAL ASSETS 16,039 4 Liabilities by geographical area ■ external 998 1,325 1,100 1,197 737 10 5,367 ■ inter-geographic area 157 108 41 129 60 (495) TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,155 1,433 1,141 1,326 797 10 (495) 5,367 Equity 6,960 Deferred tax liabilities 172 Income tax liabilities 150 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 3,372 Derivative instruments 18 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 16,039 AsiaUnited Pacific and At December 31, 2016 North Kingdom Rest of Latin Not (in millions of euros) America France and Ireland Europe America allocated Eliminations Total Assets by geographical area ■ external 3,507 2,611 1,620 2,835 1,910 39 12,522 ■ inter-geographic area 84 83 61 88 176 28 (520) TOTAL ASSETS 3,591 2,694 1,681 2,923 2,086 67 (520) 12,522 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1) 26 46 29 64 91 1 257 Deferred tax assets 1,473 Income tax assets 159 Cash management assets 157 Cash and cash equivalents 1,879 Derivative instruments 269 TOTAL ASSETS 16,459 Liabilities by geographical area ■ external 907 1,197 1,405 1,070 732 10 5,321 ■ inter-geographic area 150 100 80 127 61 (518) TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,057 1,297 1,485 1,197 793 10 (518) 5,321 Equity 7,285 Deferred tax liabilities 227 Income tax liabilities 125 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 3,412 Derivative instruments 89 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 16,459 (1) Total acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is different from the figure reported in the Statement of Cash Flows (€241 million in 2017 and €197 million in 2016), which excludes acquisitions of assets held under finance leases (€44 million in 2017 and €60 million in 2016). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 191 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Segment reporting by business  Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and Segment reporting by business is presented according to the maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system following classification: integration and application maintenance activities;  Consulting Services, which help to enhance the performance  Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or of organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client develop either fully or partially, client IT Infrastructure industries and processes; systems (or those of a group of clients), transaction services, on-demand services and/or business activities (Business  Technology & Engineering Services, which provide assistance Process Outsourcing, BPO). and support to internal IT teams; Breakdown of revenues by business 2016 2017 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 506 4 584 5 Technology & Engineering Services 1,873 15 1,927 15 Application Services 7,557 60 7,940 62 Other Managed Services 2,603 21 2,341 18 REVENUES 12,539 100 12,792 100 Breakdown of operating margin * by business 2016 2017 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 54 10.7 66 11.2 Technology & Engineering Services 240 12.8 262 13.6 Application Services 960 12.7 1,024 12.9 Other Managed Services 260 10.0 215 9.2 Headquarter expenses (74) (74) OPERATING MARGIN * 1,440 11.5 1,493 11.7 (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. 192 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 5 Consolidated income statement Income and expenses are presented in the Consolidated Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is Income Statement by function. Operating expenses are broken then obtained by taking into account the following items: down into the cost of services rendered (corresponding to  net finance costs, including net interest on borrowings costs incurred for the execution of client projects), selling calculated using the effective interest rate, less income expenses, and general and administrative expenses. from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets; These three captions represent ordinary operating expenses  other financial income and expense, which primarily which are deducted from revenues to obtain operating margin *, correspond to the impact of remeasuring financial one of the main Group business performance indicators. instruments to fair value when these relate to items of a Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating financial nature, disposal gains and losses and the impairment income and expenses from operating margin. of investments in non-consolidated companies, net interest costs on defined benefit pension plans, exchange gains and Other operating income and expenses include amortization of losses on financial items, and other financial income and intangible assets recognized in business combinations, the expense on miscellaneous financial assets and liabilities charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair calculated using the effective interest rate; value of shares granted to employees (including social security contributions and employer contributions), and non-recurring  current and deferred income tax expense; revenues and expenses, notably impairment of goodwill,  share of profit of associates; negative goodwill, capital gains or losses on disposals of consolidated companies or businesses, restructuring costs  share of non-controlling interests. 4 incurred under a detailed formal plan approved by the Group’s (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the management, the cost of acquiring and integrating companies Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. acquired by the Group, including earn-outs comprising conditions of presence and the effects of curtailments, settlements and transfers of defined benefit pension plans. Note 6 Revenues The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on The related costs are recognized as they are incurred. the nature of the services rendered: However, a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing contracts (transition and/or transformation costs) a. Time and materials contracts may be deferred when they are specific to a given contract, Revenues and cost of services are recognized as services are relate to future activity on the contract and/or will generate rendered. future economic benefits, and are recoverable. These costs are allocated to work-in-progress and any reimbursement by the b. Long-term fixed-price contracts customer is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred. Revenues, including systems development and integration When the projected cost of the contract exceeds contract contracts, are recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” revenues, a loss to completion is recognized in the amount of method. Costs are recognized as they are incurred. the difference. Revenues receivable from these contracts are recognized in the c. Outsourcing contracts Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under “Accounts Revenues from outsourcing agreements are recognized over and notes receivable” when invoiced to customers and “Accrued the term of the contract as the services are rendered. income” when they are not yet invoiced. Advances from customers and billed in advance are included in current liabilities. In 2017, revenues grew 2.0% year-on-year at current Group As disclosed in Note 1 Accounting basis, the main impact of the scope and exchange rates. Excluding the Brazilian equipment application of IFRS 15 concerns the principal/agent distinction resale business, revenues grew 4.0% at constant exchange and is assessed at €270 million, or 2.1% of 2017 revenues. Under rates (1), while organic growth (1) was 3.6%. the new standard, 2017 revenues would therefore be €12,522 million. The operating margin would remain unchanged in value terms, while the operating margin rate would increase from 11.7% to 11.9%. (1) Organic growth and growth at constant exchange rates, alternative performance measures monitored by the Group, are defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 193 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 7 Operating expenses by nature 2016 2017 in millions of euros Amount % of revenues Amount % of revenues Personnel expenses 7,611 60.7% 8,002 62.6% Travel expenses 521 4.2% 516 4.0% 8,132 64.9% 8,518 66.6% Purchases and sub-contracting expenses 2,254 18.0% 2,105 16.4% Rent and local taxes 380 3.0% 357 2.8% Other charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions and proceeds from asset disposals 333 2.6% 319 2.5% OPERATING EXPENSES 11,099 88.5% 11,299 88.3% Breakdown of personnel costs in millions of euros Note 2016 2017 Wages and salaries 6,151 6,499 Payroll taxes 1,401 1,434 Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit expenses 24 59 69 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 7,611 8,002 Note 8 Other operating income and expense in millions of euros Notes 2016 2017 Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations 13 (68) (65) Expense relating to share grants 12 (58) (71) Restructuring costs (103) (131) Integration costs for companies acquired (68) (29) Acquisition costs (1) (9) Other operating expenses (5) (8) Total operating expenses (303) (313) Other operating income 11 3 Total operating income 11 3 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE (292) (310) Amortization of intangible assets recognized Restructuring costs in business combinations Fiscal year 2017 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business reduction measures in the amount of €94 million (€91 million combinations mainly concerns the Customer Relationship (see in 2016) and the streamlining of real estate and production Note 13 Goodwill and intangible assets). assets in the amount of €31 million (€7 million in 2016). Expense relating to share grants Integration costs for companies acquired The expense relating to share grants is €71 million, compared Integration costs for companies acquired total €29 million and with €58 million in 2016. This increase mainly reflects the mainly consist of earn-outs comprising conditions of presence. full-year impact of the 2016 International Plan approved by the In 2016, integration costs mainly concerned the integration of Board of Directors on July 26, 2016 and the implementation of the IGATE group and primarily comprised the cost of consultants the new 2017 plans approved by the Board of Directors on involved in the integration and expenses relating to incentive July 26, 2017 and October 5, 2017 as well as the increased cost instruments granted to IGATE employees. of social security contributions for the new plans. This increase also reflects the progressive increase in the Capgemini SE share price. (see Note 12 Equity). 194 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 9 Net financial expense in millions of euros Note 2016 2017 Income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets 25 37 Net interest on borrowings (95) (52) Net finance costs at the nominal interest rate (70) (15) Impact of amortized cost on borrowings (34) (3) Net finance costs at the effective interest rate (104) (18) Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 24 (37) (34) Losses (exchange gains) on financial transactions 28 (51) Gains (losses) on derivative instruments (30) 36 Other (3) (5) Other financial income and expense (42) (54) o/w financial income 219 105 o/w financial expenses (261) (159) NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE (146) (72) 4 Net finance cost “Net interest on borrowings” include a net income on EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps of €6 million, including the gain “Net interest on borrowings” (€52 million) and the “Impact of realized on the interest rate component of these swaps when amortized cost on borrowings” (€3 million) total €55 million unwound early in the first-half of 2017, compared with a net cost in 2017 and mainly comprise (i) coupons on 2015 bond issues of of €16 million in 2016. €50 million, plus an amortized cost accounting impact of €3 million, unchanged on 2016 and (ii) the coupon on the 2016 bond issue of €2 million (negligible amount in 2016). Other financial income and expense In 2016, “Net interest on borrowings” included coupons of Exchange losses on financial transactions and gains on derivative €24 million on the 2011 bond issue redeemed in full on instruments primarily concern inter-company loans denominated November 29, 2016 and the “Impact of amortized cost on in foreign currencies as well as their related hedging borrowings” included €30 million in respect of the arrangements and notably include the impact on the exchange “ORNANE 2013” bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or rate component of the early unwinding of the cross currency existing shares (see Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash swaps. equivalents). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 195 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Income tax expense The income tax expense is the sum of the current tax expense and amount in respect of prior periods. The tax payable (or the deferred tax expense. It is recognized in net profit, except receivable) is calculated using tax rates that have been where it relates to a business combination or items recognized in enacted or substantively enacted at the year-end. equity or in income and expense recognized in equity. Deferred taxes Current income taxes Deferred taxes are recorded to take account of temporary The current income tax expense is the estimated amount of differences between the carrying amounts of certain assets tax payable (or receivable) in respect of the taxable profit (or and liabilities and their tax basis. See Note 16 Deferred tax. loss) for a period and any adjustment to the current tax The income tax expense for fiscal year 2017 breaks down as follows: in millions of euros Note 2016 2017 Current income taxes (131) (261) Deferred taxes 16 37 (42) INCOME TAX (EXPENSE)/INCOME (94) (303) The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the effective Group tax rate can be analyzed as follows: 2016 2017 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Profit before tax 1,002 1,111 Standard tax rate in France (%) 34.43 34.43 Tax expense at the standard rate (345) 34.43 (382) 34.43 Difference in tax rates between countries 16 (1.6) (23) 2.1 Impact of: Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising in the period (26) 2.6 (23) 2.1 Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising prior to January 1 116 (11.6) 133 (12.0) Remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 299 (26.9) Impact of change in the US federal tax rate (295) 26.6 Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 3 (0.3) 5 (0.4) Prior year adjustments 8 (0.8) 1 (0.1) Taxes not based on taxable profit (45) 4.5 (53) 4.7 Permanent differences and other items (1) 0.1 (10) 0.9 Income tax expense and effective tax rate before tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings (274) 27.3 (303) 27.3 Tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings 180 (18.0) Income tax (expense)/income and effective tax rate after tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings (94) 9.3 (303) 27.3 196 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The “Difference in tax rates between countries” mainly introduced by the first 2017 amending Finance Act, comprises: increasing by 30% the income tax liability payable by the Group fiscal unity in France for fiscal year 2017 only;  in 2017, the impact of the progressive reduction in the corporate income tax rate in France, following the  in the United States, the Transition Tax on Foreign Earnings 2018 Finance Act, to 25.82% by 2022; introduced by the tax reforms, a one-time charge on accumulated undistributed earnings and profit of US owned  in 2016, the impact of the reduction in the corporate income foreign subsidiaries, for €17 million, and certain State taxes; tax rate in France, following the 2017 Finance Act, to 28.92% by 2020.  in Italy, the regional tax on productive activities (IRAP). The “Remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss In addition to the change in the US federal tax rate and the carry-forwards” of €299 million as of December 31, 2017, reflects Transition Tax on Foreign Earnings, the US tax reforms the change in the taxable profit outlook since the last introduced other measures applicable to the Group, for which remeasurement of US deferred tax assets in 2015. Tax loss further clarification is expected. These measures include: carry-forwards in the United States are now fully recognized in  the Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax (BEAT): this alternative the Group consolidated financial statements as of December 31, tax is applicable from 2018. The tax rate will be 5% in 2018, 2017. 10% for the tax years 2019 to 2025 and 12.5% thereafter. The The “Impact of change in US federal tax rate” reflects the change tax base is distinct from the corporate income tax base and in our tax rate from 39% to 26%, following a decrease in the includes certain payments to non-US group entities, normally federal tax rate from 35% to 21% as part of the tax reforms deductible for tax purposes. The tax amount is compared with introduced by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on the standard income tax expense calculated at the standard December 22, 2017. The value of Group deferred tax assets was rate, and the higher of the two amounts is payable; decreased by €295 million at December 31, 2017.  the tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI): 4 The “Taxes not based on taxable profit” primarily consists of: earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a 10% return on the tangible assets of the subsidiaries are included  in France: in the taxable profits of US companies. A 50% deduction is ❚ the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (Cotisation sur la applied to the tax base and the tax rate is 21%. Foreign tax Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises, CVAE), credits may be deducted after the offset of available tax ❚ the repayment to Capgemini SE of the additional 3% losses carried forward. contribution on distributed earnings following the Based on current market interpretations, in the Group’s opinion, October 6, 2017 decision of the Constitutional Court that it these two measures introduced by the recent US tax reforms will was unconstitutional, not impact the calculation of the Group consolidated tax ❚ the exceptional corporate income tax contribution and the expense or the valuation of Group deferred tax assets in the additional exceptional corporate income tax contribution, United States as of December 31, 2017. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 197 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share and normalized share, both items being adjusted on a time-apportioned earnings per share are measured as follows: basis for the effects of all potentially dilutive financial instruments corresponding to (i) bonds redeemable in cash  basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit and/or in new and/or existing shares, (ii) performance or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the shares (iii) free share grants and (iv) redeemable share weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding subscription or purchase warrants; during the period, excluding treasury shares. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is  normalized earnings per share are calculated by dividing calculated based on the number of ordinary shares normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of the outstanding at the beginning of the period, after deduction Company by the weighted average number of ordinary of treasury shares, adjusted on a time apportioned basis for shares outstanding, excluding treasury shares held during shares bought back or issued during the period; the period. Normalized net profit or loss is equal to profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company  diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing corrected for the impact of items recognized in “Other profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the operating income and expense” (see Note 8 Other weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding operating income and expense), net of tax calculated using during the year as used to calculate basic earnings per the effective tax rate. Basic earnings per share 2016 2017 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company (in millions of euros) 921 820 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 169,450,721 168,057,561 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 5.44 4.88 Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion  shares available for grant under the share plan, the terms of into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding which were approved by the Board of Directors on during the year. The average share price in 2017 was €91.54. February 17, 2016, representing a weighted average of 158,975 shares and whose related presence conditions will be In 2017, instruments considered dilutive for the purpose of assessed in March 2018 and March 2020; calculating diluted earnings per share include:  shares available for grant under the performance share plan,  shares delivered in March 2017 to non-French employees the terms of which were approved by the Board of Directors under the 2013 International performance share plan on July 26, 2016, representing a weighted average of representing a weighted average of 110,650 shares; 1,613,825 shares and whose related performance conditions  shares to be delivered to French and non-French employees will be assessed in August 2019; under the 2014 and 2015 performance share plans,  shares available for grant under the share plan, the terms of representing a weighted average of 1,736,149 shares. At which were approved by the Board of Directors on July 26, December 31, 2017, the only remaining condition applicable 2017, representing a weighted average of 26,499 shares and to these shares is the presence of the beneficiaries in the whose related presence conditions will be assessed in Group at the scheduled delivery date in August 2018 for the August 2020; non-French section of the 2014 plan, in March 2018 for the French section of the 2015 plan and in August 2019 for the  the shares available for grant under the performance share non-French section of the 2015 plan; plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of Directors on October 5, 2017, representing a weighted average of 378,463 shares and whose related performance conditions will be assessed in October 2020. 198 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements in millions of euros 2016 2017 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 921 820 Finance cost savings linked to the conversion of “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds, net of tax 20 Diluted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 941 820 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 169,450,721 168,057,561 Adjusted for: “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds 5,305,591 Performance shares and free shares available for exercise 4,201,908 4,024,561 Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) 122,560 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (diluted) 179,080,780 172,082,122 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 5.25 4.76 Normalized earnings per share in millions of euros 2016 2017 4 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 921 820 Other operating income and expenses, net of tax calculated at the effective tax rate 212 226 Normalized profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,133 1,046 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 169,450,721 168,057,561 NORMALIZED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 6.69 6.22 Note 12 Equity Incentive instruments and employee share with IFRS 2, which incorporates assumptions concerning the ownership share price at the grant date, share transfer restrictions, the risk-free interest rate and the expected dividend yield. a) Instruments granted to employees The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition Shares subject to performance and presence conditions rates for eligible employee categories, which are reviewed each year and internal performance conditions (non-market Performance shares are granted to a certain number of Group conditions). employees, subject to performance (internal and external) and presence conditions. Share grants become definitive after a This amount is recognized in “Other operating income and vesting period of at least three years since July 2016 or four expense” in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over years, depending on the tax residence of the beneficiary. the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the b) Instruments proposed to employees value of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date. Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants The fair value of shares subject to external performance (BSAAR) conditions is calculated using the “Monte Carlo” model, which incorporates assumptions concerning the share price at the grant Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants were date, implicit share price volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the proposed to employees and corporate officers of the Group. expected dividend yield and market performance conditions. They conferred entitlement to subscribe for Capgemini SE shares at a strike price determined at their date of acquisition The fair value of shares subject to internal performance and/or by the employees and corporate officers of the Group. presence conditions is calculated using a model in compliance REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 199 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Employee savings plan In certain countries where the set-up of a leveraged plan Leveraged employee share ownership plans offering the through an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (fonds commun de possibility to subscribe for shares at a discounted preferential placement entreprise) or directly in the name of the employee rate have been set up by the Group. When determining the is not possible, the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) IFRS 2 expense measuring the benefit granted to employees, includes a Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism. The the Group adjusts the amount of the discount granted by the benefit offered by the Group corresponds to the amount of Group to employees on the subscription price based on the the discount on the share subscription price. following two items: Treasury shares  the cost of the non-transferability of shares granted to employees during a period of five years. This cost is Capgemini SE shares held by the Company or by any measured taking account of the five-year lock-in period. It consolidated companies are shown as a deduction from corresponds to the cost of a two-stage strategy under equity, at cost. Any proceeds from sales of treasury shares are which the market participant enters into a forward sale taken directly to equity, net of the tax effect, such that the effective at the end of the five-year lock-in period and gain or loss on the sale, net of tax, does not impact the Income simultaneously borrows the amount necessary to buy a Statement for the period. share available for immediate transfer. This borrowing is financed with the proceeds from the forward sale of the Derivative instruments on own shares share and the dividends received during the lock-in period. When derivative instruments on own shares satisfy IAS 32 This cost is calculated based on the following assumptions: classification criteria for recognition in equity, they are initially ❚ the subscription price is set by the Chairman and Chief recognized in equity in the amount of the consideration Executive Officer pursuant to the powers delegated by received or paid. Subsequent changes in fair value are not the Board of Directors. This subscription price is equal to recognized in the financial statements, other than the related the average Capgemini SE share price, weighted for tax effect. volumes, during the twenty trading days preceding the Where these instruments do not satisfy the aforementioned decision of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to criteria, the derivative instruments on own shares are which a discount is applied, recognized in assets or liabilities at fair value. Changes in fair ❚ the grant date is the date at which employees are fully value are recognized in profit or loss. The fair value informed of the specific characteristics and terms and remeasurement of these instruments at the year-end is conditions of the offer and particularly the subscription price, recognized based on external valuations. ❚ the loan rate granted to employees and used to determine the cost of the non-transferability of shares, is the rate at which a bank would grant a consumer loan repayable on maturity without allocation, to a private individual with an average risk profile, for a term corresponding to the term of the plan;  the opportunity gain reflecting the possibility granted to employees to benefit from market terms and conditions identical to those of the Group. Incentive instruments and employee share B) Performance share plans ownership The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012, May 23, 2013, May 6, 2015, May 18, 2016 and then May 10, 2017, A) Stock option plans authorized the Board of Directors to grant shares to a certain The Group no longer grants stock options since the plan number of Group employees, on one or several occasions and authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed within a maximum period of 18 months, subject to performance in June 2008. and/or presence conditions. On December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013, July 30, 2014, July 29, 2015, February 17, 2016, July 26, 2016, July 26, 2017 and October 5, 2017, the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list of beneficiaries of these eight plans. 200 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.5% 1.5% Total number of shares granted 1,003,500 (1) 1,209,100 (1) Date of Board of Directors’ decision December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and second At the end of the first and calendar years following the grant second years following the date grant date Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as from the 2 years and 1 week as from the grant date (France) or 4 years and grant date (France) or 4 years ½ month as from the grant date and 1 week as from the grant (other countries) date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 25.80% 38.70% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% -0.98% 0.59% -1.28% 4 ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 14.35 – 28.67 16.18 – 32.14 Of which corporate officers 16.18 18.12 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 499,500 663,900 o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 0 4,800 Number of shares vested during the year 499,500 (2) 659,100 (2) Number of shares at December 31, 2017 0 0 Weighted average number of shares 110,650 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 33.15 36.53 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 201 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,590,639 shares 1,721,759 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% Total number of shares granted 1,290,500 (1) 1,068,550 (1) Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 30, 2014 July 29, 2015 Performance assessment dates Three years for the internal Three years for the two performance condition and two conditions years for the external condition Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date 2 years and 7 months as from (France) or four years as from the the grant date (France) or grant date (other countries) 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 3 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 26.33% 24.54% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% -0.81% 0.10% -0.55% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 26.46 – 48.26 61.73 – 82.18 Of which corporate officers 29.32 56.66 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 776,250 1,042,950 o/w to corporate officers 40,000 (1) Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 78,750 87,352 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (presence only) 697,500 (2) 955,598 (4) Weighted average number of shares 736,875 999,274 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 53.35 87.60 202 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 International Plans Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,721,815 shares 1,721,815 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% Total number of shares granted 180,500 (5) 1,663,500 (1) Date of Board of Directors’ decision February 17, 2016 July 26, 2016 Performance assessment dates Presence condition only Three years for the two conditions Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date 3 years and 1 week as from the (France) or 4 years as from the grant grant date (France) or 4 years date (other countries) as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years 2 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility n/a 26.35% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.15% -0.03% 0.2% -0.17% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60% 4 Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 55.45 – 57.59 54.02 – 77.1 Of which corporate officers 52.68 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 173,900 1,652,600 o/w to corporate officers 42,000 (1) Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 29,850 77,550 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 144,050 (6) 1,575,050 (7) Weighted average number of shares 158,975 1,613,825 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 71.61 83.78 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 203 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 International Plans Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,691,496 shares 1,691,496 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% Total number of shares granted 63,597 (8) 1,522,500 (3) Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 26, 2017 October 5, 2017 Performance assessment dates Presence condition only Three years for the two conditions Vesting period 3 years and 1 week as from the grant 3 years as from the grant date date (other countries) (France) or 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date n/a 2 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility n/a 25.65% ■ Risk-free interest rate -0.25% / -0.04% -0.17%/ +0.90% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) 89.05 86.98 – 93.25 ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) n/a 62.02 – 93.25 Of which corporate officers 66.38 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 63,597 1,522,500 o/w to corporate officers 35,000 (1) Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 17,300 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 63,597 (8) 1,505,200 (9) Weighted average number of shares 26,499 378,463 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 94.20 100.25 (1) Grant subject to performance conditions only. (2) In respect of the “foreign” plan only. (3) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 19,150 shares subject to presence conditions only. (4) Of which 337,316 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 618,282 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan; these amounts include a 4% discount on the external performance condition as the performance of the Capgemini SE share compared with the basket of comparable securities and the CAC 40 index is between 109 and 110% of the average performance of the basket. (5) Grant subject to presence conditions only for beneficiaries employed by IGATE, acquired on July 1, 2015. (6) Of which 7,500 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 136,550 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. (7) Of which 441,350 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 1,133,700 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. (8) Grant subject to presence conditions only for beneficiaries employed by Idean, acquired in February 2017. (9) Of which 456,400 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 1,048,800 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. 204 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements a) Shares vested under the 2012 and 2013 plans  the number of shares ultimately granted: Shares representing 100% of the initial allocation vested to ❚ is equal to 50% of the number of shares initially allocated if beneficiaries not tax resident in France and still present in the the performance of the Capgemini SE share is at least equal Group at the vesting date, following the assessment in 2015 of to 100% of the basket, the performance conditions under the 2012 and 2013 plans. ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if Satisfaction of the presence condition at the vesting date the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is therefore led to the vesting in January 2017 of 499,500 shares higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, under the 2012 plan and the vesting in March 2017 of 659,100 shares under the 2013 plan. ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a pre-defined schedule, where b) Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013 2014, 2015, the performance of the Capgemini SE share is between 2016 and 2017 plans 100% and 110% of the basket. In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external each security equally weighted: performance condition when granting performance shares, the  2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria / Board of Directors decided from the 2010 plan to add an internal CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant; condition to the external condition initially planned.  2014, 2015 and 2016 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / The following internal and external performance conditions CAC 40 index / CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant. Listing apply: of the CSC security was ceased on April 1, 2017 and it was The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the therefore replaced in the basket by the grant calculation as does the internal performance condition. Stoxx 600 Technology E index; 4  2017 Plan: CSC was replaced by Indra following cessation of External performance condition the security’s listing on April 1, 2017. The rest of the basket The external performance condition is applied in an identical remains unchanged. manner across the 2012 to 2015 plans and in line with the The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions applied to the first two plans, as follows: conditions is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance  no shares are granted if the performance of the Capgemini SE with the Monte Carlo model, together with a discount for share during the period in question is less than 90% of the non-transferability for the shares granted in France. performance of the basket of securities over the same period; Internal performance condition  the number of shares ultimately granted: The internal performance condition is based on the generation ❚ is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if of organic free cash flow (1) (OFCF) over a three-year period the performance of the Capgemini SE share is at least equal encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and to 90% of the basket, 2013 plans, fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan, fiscal ❚ is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if years 2015 to 2017 for the 2015 plan, fiscal years 2016 to 2018 the performance of the Capgemini SE share is equal to for the 2016 plan and fiscal years 2017 to 2019 for the 100% of the basket, 2017 plan. Accordingly: ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if  no shares will be granted in respect of the internal the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is performance condition if the cumulative increase in organic higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, free cash flow over the reference period is less than ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and €750 million for the 2012 and 2013 plans, €850 million for the between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a 2014 plan, €1,750 million for the 2015 plan, €2,400 million for pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the the 2016 plan and €2,900 million for the 2017 plan; Capgemini SE share is between 90% and 100% of the basket  100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if organic in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the free cash flow is equal to or exceeds €1,000 million for the second case. 2012 and 2013 plans, €1,100 million for the 2014 plan, Under these conditions, if the performance of the Capgemini SE €2,000 million for the 2015 plan, €2,700 million for the share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only 2016 plan and €3,200 million for the 2017 plan. 60% of the initial allocation will be granted in respect of the The fair value of shares subject to internal performance external performance condition (i.e. 30% of the initial allocation). conditions is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where necessary in line with effective realization of this The terms of the external performance condition were tightened condition. A discount for non-transferability is also applied for for the 2016 and 2017 plans and accordingly: the shares granted in France.  no shares are granted if the performance of the Capgemini SE share during the period in question is less than the performance of the basket of securities over the same period; (1) Organic free cash flow, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures and Note 22 Cash flows. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 205 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements C) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – calculated based solely on the employee’s personal contribution. ESOP 2012 In return, the employee waives a portion of any increase in the The Group set up an employee share ownership plan price of shares subscribed on his behalf, as well as dividends and (ESOP 2012) in the second-half of 2012. On September 27, 2012, other financial rights that could be paid on these shares the Group issued 6,000,000 new shares reserved for employees throughout the entire term of the plan. In addition, the shares with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of will be unavailable for a period of five years (except for cases of €153 million net of issue costs. The total cost of this employee early release covered by plan rules in accordance with applicable share ownership plan in 2012 was €0.8 million, attributable to legislation). the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in This employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2017) includes a countries where the set-up of an Employee Savings Mutual Fund 12.5% discount. Under the delegation of authority granted by (fonds commun de placement entreprise, FCPE) was not possible or the Board of Directors, the subscription price was set at €89.39 relevant. This plan expired on September 27, 2017. by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on November 15, 2017. This price corresponds to the daily average Capgemini SE D) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – share price, weighted for volumes, over the twenty stock market ESOP 2014 trading days preceding the Chairman and Chief Executive The Group set up an employee share ownership plan Officer’s decision, less a 12.5% discount. (ESOP 2014) in the second-half of 2014. On December 18, 2014, On December 18, 2017, the Group issued 3,600,000 new shares the Group issued 5,000,000 new shares reserved for employees reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing a with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of share capital increase of €320 million net of issue costs €229 million net of issue costs. The total cost of this employee (€1.0 million, net of tax). Paul Hermelin subscribed for share ownership plan in 2014 was €1.1 million, attributable to Capgemini SE shares in the amount of €33,517.30 through the the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in Capgemini Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE). countries where the set-up of an Employee Savings Mutual Fund In those countries where the leverage through an FCPE or (fonds commun de placement entreprise, FCPE) was not possible or directly in the employee’s name has been possible, the IFRS 2 relevant. expense is nil, as the cost of non-transferability to the participant is greater than the total discount at the date of grant plus the E) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – opportunity gain. The IFRS 2 expense of €2.2 million is ESOP 2017 attributable to the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism Pursuant to the 17th and 18th resolutions adopted by the for employees in countries where the introduction of a Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, the Group set leveraged plan through an FCPE or directly in the employee’s up an employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2017) in the name is not possible or relevant. second-half of 2017. Nearly 187,300 Group employees in Finally, it should also be noted that a decrease of 0.5 points in 21 countries, representing approximately 97% of the Group the employee financing rate would not impact the IFRS 2 headcount, were invited to subscribe for Capgemini SE shares. expense, as the non-transferability cost would remain greater Under the plan, a minimum length of service of three months than the total discount at the grant date. This similarly applies to was required at November 19, 2017, acquired consecutively or an increase of 0.5 points in the retail rate/institutional rate not since January 1, 2016 to qualify as a candidate for volatility difference, as the cost of non-transferability would still subscription. This leveraged plan offered employees the be greater than the total discount at the date of grant plus the possibility of subscribing at a discounted preferential rate and, opportunity gain. via a bank which secured and supplemented the investment so that the total amount invested represented ten times the The table below presents the main features of the ESOP 2017 personal contribution of the employee, potentially generating a employee share ownership plan, the amounts subscribed and the greater capital gain than would have been the case had it been pricing assumptions (excluding SAR): 206 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 Plan Plan features Grant date November 15, 2017 Plan maturity (in years) 5 Base price (in euros) 102.16 Subscription price (in euros) 89.39 Par value discount (in %) 12.50% Share price on Grant date (in euros) 100,00 (a) Total discount at the grant date (in %) 10.61% Amount subscribed by employees (in millions of euros) 32.2 Total amount subscribed (in millions of euros) 321.8 Total number of shares subscribed 3,600,000 Pricing assumptions Employee financing rate 5.31% 5-year risk-free interest rate 0.19% Repo and reverse repo rates 0.40% 4 Retail rate/Institutional rate volatility difference 1.51% (b) Cost to the participant of non-transferability (in %) 22.63% (c) Opportunity gain (in %) 0.84% (1) (d) Total cost for the Group (in %) (a b + c) 0.00% (1) The expense is nil as the cost to the participant of non-transferability is greater than the total discount at the date of grant plus the opportunity gain. Pursuant to the share purchase agreement signed on Impact of incentive instruments and employee share September 21, 2017 with an investment services provider, which ownership plans is also the institution managing the ESOP 2017 employee share The following table gives the expense recognized in “Other ownership plan, Capgemini SE purchased 3,522,495 of its own operating income and expense” (including payroll taxes and shares for a consideration of €360 million to neutralize the employer contributions) for incentive instruments and employee dilution related to this plan. All of these shares were canceled in share ownership plans and the residual amount to be amortized the fourth quarter of 2017. in future periods. 2016 2017 Residual amount Residual amount Expense of to be amortized in Expense of to be amortized in millions of euros Note the period future periods the period in future periods EXPENSE ON INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS 8 58 161 71 217 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 207 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements F) Employee incentive instruments IGATE The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: 2015 Plan One, two or three years for the market condition and Vesting period three years for the internal condition Number of Performance Units at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of Performance Units previously granted subject to performance and presence conditions 85,555 Number of Performance Units subject to performance and presence conditions granted during the year Number of Performance Units forfeited or cancelled during the year 34,471 Number of Performance Units vested during the year 9,212 Number of Performance Units at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of units previously granted subject to performance and presence conditions 41,872 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% Fair value in euros (per unit) €56.30 On July 1, 2015, in the context of the IGATE acquisition, ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2018, subject to presence and market Capgemini exchanged IGATE Performance Share Awards (PSA) performance conditions, held by beneficiaries for Capgemini Performance Units (PUs): ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2019, subject to presence and internal  the number of PUs granted was calculated by multiplying the performance conditions; number of IGATE PSAs outstanding by the following ratio:  in addition, PUs vesting in the first three years are subject to a final adjustment clause tied to the change in the Capgemini SE US$48 (unit purchase price of IGATE shares paid by Capgemini) share price between the vesting dates and July 1, 2019. €78.37 (closing price x 1.0824 (€/US$ The internal condition was only satisfied 54% at the first vesting of the Capgemini SE exchange rate date, resulting in the vesting of 15,400 PUs and the cancellation on April 24, 2015) on April 24, 2015) of 13,118 PUs for this first tranche. The internal condition was only satisfied 44% at the  this calculation is equivalent to adjusting the number of PSAs second vesting date, resulting in the vesting of 9,212 PUs and by the exchange parity of the IGATE and Capgemini SE shares the cancellation of 34,471 PUs for this second tranche, including in US$ on April 24, 2015; the impact of failure to satisfy the presence condition.  the vesting of PUs is subject to the attainment of internal and Treasury shares and management of share capital market performance conditions and the presence of the and market risks beneficiary in the Group at the vesting date: The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment ❚ the internal performance condition consists of a cumulative purposes and does not have any interests in listed companies. organic free cash flow (OFCF) (1) objective for the period 2015 to 2017, as presented in the audited, published At December 31, 2017, treasury shares were deducted from Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal years 2015, 2016 consolidated equity in the amount of €61 million. These consist of and 2017, with the maximum number of units vesting for an (i) 570,393 shares purchased under the share buyback program aggregate amount of €2 billion, and (ii) 123,628 shares held under the liquidity agreement (the ❚ the market performance condition is based on the ability of associated liquidity line is €20 million) and the contractual holding the Capgemini SE share to outperform a reference basket system for key employees of American activities. comprising the CAC 40 index and the following companies In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group is in equal weighting: Accenture, CSC, Atos, Tieto, CGI Group, not therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as the Infosys, Sopra, and Cognizant; value of treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes in the  the vesting schedule is as follows: share price do not impact the Consolidated Income Statement. ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2016, subject to presence and market performance conditions, ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2017, subject to presence and market performance conditions, (1) Organic free cash flow, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures and Note 22 Cash flows. 208 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The Group’s capital management strategy is designed to Currency risk and translation gains and losses on the maintain a strong capital base in view of supporting the accounts of subsidiaries with a functional currency other continued development of its business activities and delivering a than the euro return to shareholders, while adopting a prudent approach to Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency debt. At December 31, 2017, the Group had net debt (1) of accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, the consolidated financial €1,209 million (compared with €1,413 million at December 31, statements are particularly impacted by fluctuations in the 2016). In order to best manage the structure of its capital, the US dollar and the pound sterling against the euro. These had a Group can notably issue new shares, buy back its own shares, negative impact on translation reserves, mainly due to the adjust the dividend paid to shareholders or enter into derivative depreciation of the US dollar and the pound sterling against the instruments on its own shares. euro in 2017. The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. The main exchange rates used for the preparation of the financial statements are presented in Note 2 Consolidation principles and Group structure. Note 13 Goodwill and intangible assets 4 Goodwill When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair Goodwill is equal to the excess of the acquisition price (plus, value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the where applicable, non-controlling interests) over the net negative goodwill is recognized immediately in the Income amount recognized in respect of identifiable assets acquired Statement in “Other operating income and expense”. and liabilities assumed. Where an acquisition confers control Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income Statement with remaining non-controlling interests (acquisition of less in “Other operating income and expense” in the year incurred. than 100%), the Group elects either to recognize goodwill on the full amount of revalued net assets, including the share Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least attributable to non-controlling interests (full goodwill annually, or more frequently when events or changes in method) or on the share in revalued net assets effectively circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. acquired only (partial goodwill method). This choice is made Customer relationships for each individual transaction. On certain business combinations, where the nature of the Goodwill balances are allocated to the different customer portfolio held by the acquired entity and the nature cash-generating units (as defined in Note 15 Cash-generating of the business performed should enable the acquired entity units and asset impairment tests) based on the value in use to continue commercial relations with its customers as a result contributed to each unit. of efforts to build customer loyalty, customer relationships are When a business combination with non-controlling interests valued in intangible assets and amortized over the estimated provides for the grant of a put option to these non-controlling term of contracts held in portfolio at the acquisition date. interests, an operating liability is recognized in the Licenses and software Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in the amount of Computer software and user rights acquired on an the estimated exercise price of the put option granted to unrestricted ownership basis, as well as software and solutions non-controlling interests, through a reduction in equity. developed internally and which have a positive, lasting and Changes in this put option resulting from any changes in quantifiable effect on future results, are capitalized and estimates or the unwinding of the discount are also amortized over three to five years. recognized through equity. Any additional acquisitions of non-controlling interests are considered a transaction with The capitalized costs of software and solutions developed shareholders and, as such, identifiable assets are not internally are costs that relate directly to their production, i.e. the remeasured and no additional goodwill is recognized. salary costs of the staff that developed the relevant software. (1) Net debt, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 209 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Customer Licenses and intangible in millions of euros Goodwill relationships software assets Total GROSS At January 1, 2016 7,148 807 282 414 8,651 Translation adjustments 112 28 2 (4) 138 Acquisitions/Increase 24 24 Internal developments 47 47 Disposals/Decrease (1) (14) (15) Business combinations 19 1 20 Other movements 2 2 At December 31, 2016 7,279 835 296 457 8,867 Translation adjustments (621) (91) (14) (10) (736) Acquisitions/Increase 26 26 Internal developments 39 39 Disposals/Decrease (2) (6) (1) (9) Business combinations 267 15 1 1 284 (2) Other movements (3) (9) (43) (55) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 6,925 754 294 443 8,416 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT (1) At January 1, 2016 93 212 214 229 748 Translation adjustments 10 11 4 (3) 22 Charges and provisions 67 29 27 123 Disposals (2) (13) (15) At December 31, 2016 103 288 234 253 878 Translation adjustments (8) (29) (11) (2) (50) Charges and provisions 64 27 34 125 Disposals (2) (5) (1) (8) Business combinations 1 1 (2) Other movements (3) (6) (32) (41) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 95 318 240 252 905 NET AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 7,176 547 62 204 7,989 AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 6,830 436 54 191 7,511 (1) Goodwill is subject to impairment only. (2) In 2017, “Other movements” mainly concern the sale of the IBX business (see Note 2 Consolidation Principles and Group Structure). 210 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 14 Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) Property, plant and equipment Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is each period end. recorded in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to Position and corresponds to the historical cost of these items, disposal gains and losses corresponding to the difference less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. No items between the selling price and the net carrying amount of the of property, plant and equipment have been revalued. relevant asset. Buildings owned by the Group are measured based on the components approach. Finance leases Subsequent expenditure increasing the future economic Leases that do not transfer to the Group substantially all the benefits associated with assets (costs of replacing and/or risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as bringing assets into compliance) is capitalized and depreciated operating leases, and give rise to lease payments expensed as over the remaining useful lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing incurred over the lease term. maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. However, when the Group assumes substantially all of the risks Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the and rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is classified as a estimated useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated finance lease and is recognized as an asset at the lower of the based on acquisition cost less any residual value. fair value of the leased asset and the present value of future minimum lease payments. The related obligation is recorded in Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the liabilities within borrowings. The asset is depreciated over the 4 following estimated useful lives: period during which it is expected to be used by the Group and the obligation is amortized over the lease term. Deferred tax is Buildings 20 to 40 years recognized as appropriate. Fixtures and fittings 10 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years Vehicles 5 years Other equipment 5 years REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 211 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Land, buildings and fixtures and Computer in millions of euros fittings equipment Other PP&E Total GROSS At January 1, 2016 927 733 267 1,927 Translation adjustments (14) (10) 1 (23) Acquisitions/Increase 54 111 21 186 Disposals/Decrease (24) (94) (15) (133) Business combinations 3 6 6 15 Other movements 2 (1) 1 At December 31, 2016 946 748 279 1,973 Translation adjustments (39) (26) (16) (81) Acquisitions/Increase 103 97 20 220 Disposals/Decrease (14) (74) (8) (96) Business combinations 2 6 1 9 Other movements (39) (7) 38 (8) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 959 744 314 2,017 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2016 437 542 185 1,164 Translation adjustments (14) (10) 1 (23) Charges and provisions 53 101 22 176 Disposals (21) (72) (14) (107) Business combinations 1 4 3 8 Other movements 1 1 (1) 1 At December 31, 2016 457 566 196 1,219 Translation adjustments (14) (20) (11) (45) Charges and provisions 48 97 31 176 Disposals (13) (58) (7) (78) Business combinations 1 4 1 6 Other movements (21) (8) 19 (10) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 458 581 229 1,268 NET AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 489 182 83 754 AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 501 163 85 749 Property, plant and equipment purchased under finance lease Net (in millions of euros) 2016 2017 At January 1 113 107 Translation adjustments (5) (3) Acquisitions/Increase 48 44 Disposals/Decrease (1) (1) Charges and provisions (46) (46) Other movements (2) AT DECEMBER 31 107 101 212 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 15 Cash-generating units and asset impairment tests Cash-generating units a binding agreement or the market price in recent and The cash-generating units identified by the Group represent comparable transactions; geographic areas.  value in use is based on the discounted future cash flows to be derived from these cash-generating units. Asset impairment tests Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a The value in use of each cash-generating unit is measured definite useful life are tested for impairment when there is an using the discounted future cash flow method, based on the indication at the period end that their recoverable amount various assumptions in the three-year strategic plan may be less than their carrying amount. Goodwill and assets extrapolated over a period of five years, including growth and with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least profitability rates considered reasonable. Long-term growth once a year. rates and discount rates are determined taking account of the specific characteristics of each of the Group’s geographic areas The impairment test consists of assessing the recoverable and the main component countries. Discount rates reflect the amount of each asset or group of assets generating cash flows weighted average cost of capital, calculated notably based on that are separate from the cash flows generated by other market data and a sample of sector companies. When the assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units or CGU). recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is less than its The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value carrying amount, the impairment loss is deducted from less costs to sell of the cash-generating unit and its value in use: goodwill to the extent possible and charged under “Other operating income and expenses”. 4  fair value is the amount obtainable in an arm’s length transaction and is determined with reference to the price in Goodwill per cash-generating unit The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units breaks down as follows: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 Net carrying Net carrying in millions of euros Gross value Impairment amount Gross value Impairment amount North America 2,193 (8) 2,185 2,129 (7) 2,122 France 1,469 (1) 1,468 1,431 (1) 1,430 United Kingdom and Ireland 1,014 1,014 928 928 Benelux 1,003 (12) 991 964 (12) 952 Southern Europe 132 132 121 121 Nordic countries 297 297 296 296 Germany and Central Europe 420 (32) 388 393 (31) 362 Asia-Pacific 581 581 514 514 Latin America 170 (50) 120 149 (44) 105 GOODWILL 7,279 (103) 7,176 6,925 (95) 6,830 Goodwill was tested for impairment at December 31, 2017 in line with the Group valuation procedure for such assets. During 2017, the Group decided to refine its method of calculating discount and long-term growth rates, factoring in the specific characteristics of each geographic zone and market data for a sample of comparable companies. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 213 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The main assumptions used were therefore: December 31, 2017 Long-term growth rate Discount rate North America 2.9% 7.4% Latin America 6.3% 12.1% Asia-Pacific 4.7% 11.9% United Kingdom and Ireland 2.9% 7.2% Continental Europe 2.4% 6.7% No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, 2017 as Furthermore, an analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a a result of these impairment tests. combined change in the following key assumptions: For the Latin America cash-generating unit, which was tested for  +/-2 points in the revenue growth rate for the first five years; impairment at June 30, 2017, the use at December 31, 2017 of  +/-1 point in the operating margin rate (1) for the discount and long-term growth rates calculated using the first five years; 2016 calculation method, would not have resulted in the recognition of an impairment loss at December 31, 2017.  +/-0.5 points in the discount rate; Similarly, it would not have impacted the sensitivity tests  +/-0.5 points in the long-term growth rate; presented below. did not identify any recoverable amounts below the carrying amount for any cash-generating units. Note 16 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are: Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the recognized  recorded to take account of temporary differences between tax asset can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and assets is reviewed at each period end. This amount is reduced their tax basis; to the extent that it is no longer probable that additional  recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, taxable profit will be available against which to offset all or in income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in part of the deferred tax assets to be utilized. Conversely, the equity in the period, depending on the underlying to which carrying amount of deferred tax assets will be increased when they relate; it becomes probable that future taxable profit will be available  measured taking account of known changes in tax rates in the long-term against which to offset tax losses not yet (and tax regulations) enacted or substantively enacted at recognized. The probability of recovering deferred tax assets the year-end. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to is primarily assessed based on a 10-year plan, weighted for the deferred taxes previously recognized in the Income probability of realization of future taxable profits. Statement, in income and expense recognized in equity or The main deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and directly in equity are recognized in the Income Statement, only if, the subsidiaries have a legally enforceable right to in income and expense recognized in equity or directly in offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and equity, respectively, in the period in which these changes when the deferred taxes relate to income taxes levied by the become effective. same taxation authority. (1) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. 214 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Recognized deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets and movements therein break down as follows: Provisions Temporary for pensions differences and other Other Tax loss on postdeductible Total carryamortizable employment temporary deferred in millions of euros Note forwards goodwill benefits differences tax assets At January 1, 2016 944 40 296 132 1,412 Business combinations 2 2 Translation adjustments 20 9 (17) (1) 11 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 (46) 120 (15) (24) 35 Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity (27) 22 12 7 Other movements 1 (5) 10 6 At December 31, 2016 892 169 281 131 1,473 Business combinations 1 (3) (2) Translation adjustments (77) (10) (9) (9) (105) 4 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 (63) (39) 38 (64) Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 18 (17) 1 Other movements including offset with deferred tax liabilities (8) (2) (9) (1) (20) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 763 118 246 156 1,283 Recognized tax loss carry-forwards total €763 million at These measures include: December 31, 2017 (€892 million at December 31, 2016) and  the Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax (BEAT): this alternative tax primarily concern the United States in the amount of €554 million is applicable from 2018. The tax rate will be 5% in the 2018, (US$ 664 million) and France in the amount of €181 million. 10% for the tax years 2019 through 2025 and 12.5% thereafter. The tax base is distinct from the corporate income tax base and US deferred tax assets and tax loss includes certain payments to non-US Group entities, normally carry-forwards deductible for tax purposes. The tax amount is compared with At December 31, 2017, cumulative US tax losses carried forward the standard income tax expense calculated at the standard totaled €2,164 million (US$2,595 million) and are fully rate, and the higher of the two amounts is payable; recognized following the change in the taxable profit outlook  the tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI): since the last remeasurement of US deferred tax assets in 2015. earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a 10% return on the tangible assets of the subsidiaries are included Net deferred tax assets of €541 million (US$649 million) are in the taxable profits of US companies. A 50% deduction is therefore recognized in the Unites States, including tax loss applied to the tax base and the tax rate is 21%. Foreign tax carry-forwards of €554 million (US$664 million), after adjustment credits may be deducted after the offset of available tax for losses offset during the year, the recognition of additional tax losses carried forward. loss carry-forwards and the change in tax rates in the United States. Based on current market interpretations, in the Group’s opinion, In addition to the change in the US federal tax rate and the these two measures introduced by the recent US tax reforms will Transition Tax on Foreign Earnings, the US tax reforms not impact the calculation of the Group consolidated tax introduced other measures applicable to the Group, for which expense or the valuation of Group deferred tax assets in the further clarification is expected. United States as of December 31, 2017. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 215 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Unrecognized deferred tax assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2016 2017 Deferred tax on tax loss carry-forwards 660 228 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 38 6 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 698 234 Expiry dates of tax loss carry-forwards (taxable base) 2016 2017 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Amount % Amount % Between 1 and 5 years 51 1 41 1 Between 6 and 10 years 1,388 32 1,256 35 Between 11 and 15 years 1,071 25 835 24 Beyond 15 years (definite expiry date) 257 6 112 3 Carried forward indefinitely 1,529 36 1,337 37 TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (taxable base) 4,296 100 3,581 100 o/w recognized tax losses 2,433 57 2,856 80 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities and movements therein break down as follows: Tax-deductible Other taxable goodwill Customer temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note amortization relationships differences tax liabilities At January 1, 2016 64 71 86 221 Business combinations Translation adjustments 2 2 4 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 1 (8) 5 (2) Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 1 1 Other movements (7) 10 3 At December 31, 2016 67 58 102 227 Business combinations 2 2 Translation adjustments (5) (7) (4) (16) Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 (10) (7) (5) (22) Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 1 1 Other movements including offset with deferred tax assets (2) (18) (20) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 50 46 76 172 216 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 17 Financial instruments Financial instruments consist of:  the market interest rate, which reflects the effective interest rate recalculated at the measurement date based  financial assets, including other non-current assets, accounts on current market parameters. receivable, other current assets, cash management assets and cash and cash equivalents; Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized when the related risks and rewards of ownership have been  financial liabilities, including longand short-term transferred, and when the Group no longer exercises control borrowings and bank overdrafts, accounts payable and over the instruments. other current and non-current liabilities;  derivative instruments. b) Derivative instruments a) Recognition of financial instruments Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign exchange purchase and sale contracts (in the form of tunnels, Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially where applicable), interest rate swaps and call options on own recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial shares. Position at their initial fair value. The subsequent measurement of financial assets and liabilities Other derivative instruments is based on either their fair value or amortized cost depending Other derivative instruments are initially recognized at fair on their classification in the Consolidated Statement of value. Except as described below in the case of instruments Financial Position. designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of 4 derivative instruments, estimated based on market rates or The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which data provided by bank counterparties, are recognized in the an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between Income Statement at the period end. knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. When operating or financial cash flow hedges are eligible for Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (net hedge accounting, the fair value of the hedging instruments of transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the effective are recognized firstly in “Income and expense recognized in interest rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest payments and equity” and subsequently taken to operating profit when the repayments of principal and redemption premiums where hedged item itself impacts the Income Statement. applicable). Accrued interest (income and expense) is not recorded on the basis of the financial instrument’s nominal c) Fair value measurement interest rate, but on the basis of its effective interest rate. Financial assets measured at amortized cost are subject to Fair value measurement methods for financial and impairment tests as soon as there are indicators of a loss in non-financial assets and liabilities as defined above are value. Any loss in value is recognized in the Income Statement. classified according to the following three fair value levels: Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on  Level 1: fair value measured based on quoted prices subsequent dates in accordance with the methods described (unadjusted) observed in active markets for identical assets below. These methods draw on the following interest rate or liabilities; definitions:  Level 2: fair value measured using inputs other than quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly  the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); interest rate on borrowings;  Level 3: fair value of assets or liabilities measured using  the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly inputs that are not based on observable market data discounts the estimated cash flows through the expected (unobservable inputs). term of the instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or As far as possible, the Group applies Level 1 measurement liability at initial recognition. The effective interest rate takes methods. into account all fees paid or received, transaction costs, and, where applicable, premiums to be paid and received; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 217 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Financial instrument classification and fair value hierarchy The following table presents the net carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities and the fair value of financial instruments broken down according to the three classification levels defined above (except for financial instruments where the net carrying amount represents a reasonable approximation of fair value). Net carrying amount Fair value Amortized December 31, 2017 (in millions of euros) Note Fair value cost Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Shares in non-consolidated companies and associates 18 4 4 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments 18 124 Other non-current assets 18 130 Current and non-current asset derivative instruments 18-20 174 174 Accounts and notes receivables 19 3,265 Other current assets 20 536 Cash management assets 21 168 168 Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,988 1,988 Financial liabilities Bonds 21 3,264 Obligations under finance leases 21 87 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 21 21 Other current and non-current liabilities 26 374 Current and non-current liability derivative instruments 26 18 18 Accounts and notes payable 27 2,837 Bank overdrafts 21 Note 18 Other non-current assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2016 2017 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments 119 124 Derivative instruments 23 120 53 Non-current tax receivables 83 72 Other 52 62 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 22 374 311 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments consist management of currency risk in the amount of €53 million (current mainly of aides à la construction (building aid program) loans and portion of €110 million, see Note 20 Other current assets). security deposits and guarantees relating to leases. At December 31, 2017, “Non-current tax receivables” include Derivative instruments primarily consist of the fair value of research tax credit receivables and competitiveness and derivative instruments contracted as part of the centralized employment tax credit receivables in France in the amount of €54 million (€56 million as of December 31, 2016). 218 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 19 Accounts and notes receivable At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2016 2017 Accounts receivable 1,996 2,066 Provisions for doubtful accounts (27) (24) Accrued income 1,012 1,124 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 22 2,981 3,166 Capitalized costs on projects 22 93 99 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 3,074 3,265 Total accounts receivable and accrued income net of advances from customers and billed in advance, can be analyzed as follows in number of days revenue: At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2016 2017 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 22 2,981 3,166 Advances from customers and billed in advance 22 (737) (890) 4 TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET OF ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS AND BILLED IN ADVANCE 2,244 2,276 (1) In number of days’ annual revenue 64 64 (1) This ratio is adjusted to take account of the impact of entries into the scope of consolidation. As of December 31, 2017, receivables totaling €99 million were assigned with transfer of credit risk as defined by IAS 39 to financial institutions (€66 million in 2016) and were therefore derecognized in the Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2017. Aged analysis of accounts receivable The low bad debt ratio reflects the fact that most invoices are only issued after the client has validated the services provided. At end-2017, past due balances total €411 million (€341 million as of December 31, 2016) and represent 20.1% of accounts and notes receivable less provisions for doubtful accounts (17.3% in 2016). The breakdown is as follows: > 30 days and in millions of euros < 30 days < 90 days > 90 days Net accounts receivable 249 102 60 As a % of accounts and notes receivable, net of provisions for doubtful accounts 12.2% 5.0% 2.9% Past due balances concern accounts receivable from clients 15% of Group revenues. The solvency of these major clients and which are individually analyzed and monitored. the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit risk. The economic environment could impact the business Credit risk activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable from these clients. However, the Group does not consider that The Group’s three largest clients contribute around 7% of Group any of its clients, business sectors or geographic areas present a revenues (compared with 9% in 2016). The Group’s five largest significant credit risk that could materially impact the financial clients contribute around 10% of Group revenues (compared position of the Group as a whole. with 11% in 2016). The top ten clients collectively account for REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 219 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20 Other current assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2016 2017 Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax 216 259 Prepaid expenses 209 212 Derivative instruments 23 149 121 Other 53 65 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 22 627 657 As of December 31, 2017, Social security and tax-related at December 31, 2016), after recognition of research tax credit receivables, other than income tax include research tax credit and competitiveness and employment tax credit income in receivables and competitiveness and employment tax credit France deducted from operating expenses of €60 million receivables in France in the amount of €107 million (€88 million (€54 million in 2016). Note 21 Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Consolidated Net debt or net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and Statement of Cash Flows consist of short-term investments cash equivalents as defined above, and cash management and cash at bank less bank overdrafts. assets (assets presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to their characteristics), less shortand long-term borrowings. Account is also taken of the impact of hedging instruments when these relate to borrowings and own shares. in millions of euros 2016 2017 Short-term investments 1,449 1,497 Cash at bank 430 491 Bank overdrafts (9) Cash and cash equivalents 1,870 1,988 Cash management assets 157 168 Bonds (3,236) (2,739) Obligations under finance leases (51) (43) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings (1) Long-term borrowings (3,287) (2,783) Bonds (24) (525) Obligations under finance leases (49) (44) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net (43) (20) Short-term borrowings (116) (589) Borrowings (3,403) (3,372) Derivative instruments (37) 7 NET DEBT (1,413) (1,209) 220 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Short-term investments The July 2020 and July 2023 tranches are callable by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus and At December 31, 2017, short-term investments mainly consist of particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. mutual fund units, negotiable debt securities and term bank deposits, paying interest at standard market rates. These three bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. Cash management assets The terms and conditions of these three tranches were set out in Cash management assets consist of capitalization contracts with the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 29, 2015 under insurance companies which may be cancelled by Capgemini SE at reference number no. 15-318. any time without penalty, as well as marketable securities held by certain Group companies which do not meet all the monetary c) “ORNANE 2013” Bond issue UCITS classification criteria defined by ESMA (European On October 18, 2013, Capgemini SE launched an offering of Securities and Markets Authority) for money market mutual bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares funds, particularly with regards to the average maturity of the (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numéraire et/ou en portfolio. These funds may, however, be redeemed at any time Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE), maturing on without penalty. January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoyed all rights from October 25, 2013. Borrowings The total nominal amount of the issue was €400 million, comprising 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal value of €67.13 each, A) Bonds representing an issue premium of 42.5% compared with the Capgemini SE reference share price over the relevant period. a) 2016 Bond issue 4 On October 18, 2013, the Company purchased a call option on its On November 3, 2016, Capgemini SE placed a €500 million bond own shares aimed at neutralizing the potential dilution related to issue comprising 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each the ORNANE 2013 bond issue. In addition, and in order to and with a settlement/delivery date of November 9, 2016. optimize the cost of the Group’s financial resources, the The bonds mature on November 9, 2021 and pay an annual Company sold a call option also on its own shares but with a coupon of 0.50% (issue price 99.769%). The bond issue is callable higher strike price. Together, these two transactions before this date by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions synthetically enhanced the effective dilution threshold of the set out in the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the ORNANEs by approximately 5%. minimum redemption price. The bonds did not bear any interest (zero coupon bonds). The bond issue is also subject to standard early redemption, early Capgemini redeemed early all ORNANE bonds outstanding at repayment and pari passu clauses. November 21, 2016 at par and based on a conversion ratio The terms and conditions of the bond issue were set out in the of 1.00 Capgemini SE share for one ORNANE bond. prospectus approved by the AMF on November 7, 2016 under In this context, holders of 5,934,131 ORNANE bonds exercised reference number no. 16-518. their share allotment rights resulting in the presentation of €398 million and 640,184 existing shares. On November 21, b) July 1, 2015 Bond issue 2016, Capgemini SE redeemed all outstanding ORNANE bonds, On June 24, 2015, Capgemini SE performed a “triple tranche” i.e. 24,456 bonds for a total of €2 million. bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015: The conversion option embedded in the ORNANE bonds and the call option on own shares recognized in “Other non-current  2015 Bond issue (July 2018): liabilities” and “Other non-current assets”, respectively, of similar This tranche has a nominal amount of €500 million, comprising amount, were released without any net impact on the Income 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds Statement. mature on July 2, 2018 and pay a floating coupon of In this context, Capgemini SE exercised in full the call option on 3 month Euribor +85 pb, revised quarterly (issue price 100%); its own shares purchased on October 18, 2013. The call option  2015 Bond issue (July 2020): sold by the Company was also exercised in full. Capgemini SE This tranche has a nominal amount of €1,250 million, received an amount of €14 million on the exercise of these comprising 12,500 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. two calls in 2016. The bonds mature on July 1, 2020 and pay an annual coupon of 1.75% (issue price 99.853%); d) 2011 Bond issue  2015 Bond issue (July 2023): The 2011 bond issue of a nominal amount of €500 million bore annual interest of 5.25%. It was redeemed in full on maturity on This tranche has a nominal amount of €1,000 million, November 29, 2016. comprising 10,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds mature on July 1, 2023 and pay an annual coupon of 2.50% (issue price 99.857%). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 221 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Impact of bonds on the financial statements 2017 2015 Bond issue 2016 At December 31 (in millions of euros) July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 Bond issue Equity component n/a n/a n/a n/a Option component in respect of the embedded conversion option n/a n/a n/a n/a Debt component at amortized cost, including accrued interest 500 1,258 1,008 498 Effective interest rate 0.6% 1.9% 2.6% 0.6% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 4 23 26 2 Nominal interest rate 0.5% 1.8% 2.5% 0.5% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 3 22 25 2 2016 2015 Bond issue 2011 “ORNANE 2016 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Bond issue 2013” bonds July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 Bond issue Equity component n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Option component in respect of the embedded conversion option n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Debt component at amortized cost, including accrued interest 500 1,256 1,007 497 Effective interest rate 5.5% 2.7% 1.0% 1.9% 2.6% 0.6% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 25 30 4 23 26 Nominal interest rate 5.3% 0.0% 0.8% 1.8% 2.5% 0.5% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 24 3 22 25 Fair value of bonds 2017 2015 Bond issue 2016 At December 31 (in millions of euros) July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 Bond issue Fair value 502 1,309 1,112 505 Market rate 0.1% 0.2% 0.7% 0.3% 2016 2015 Bond issue 2016 At December 31 (in millions of euros) July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 Bond issue Fair value 505 1,320 1,116 502 Market rate 0.1% 0.4% 0.9% 0.4% 222 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements B) Breakdown of borrowings by currency At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2017 Other Other in millions of euros Euro currencies Total Euro currencies Total 2015 Bond issue – July 2018 500 500 500 500 2015 Bond issue – July 2020 1,256 1,256 1,258 1,258 2015 Bond issue – July 2023 1,007 1,007 1,008 1,008 2016 Bond issue 497 497 498 498 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 43 43 1 20 21 Obligations under finance leases 65 35 100 51 36 87 Bank overdrafts 3 6 9 BORROWINGS 3,328 84 3,412 3,316 56 3,372 Obligations under finance leases in other currencies than euro are mainly denominated in pound sterling in the amount of €22 million (€20 million as of December 31, 2016) and in US dollars in the amount of €9 million (€11 million as of December 31, 2016). 4 C) Syndicated credit facility negotiated the facility drawn). This margin may be adjusted upwards or by Capgemini SE downwards according to the credit rating of Capgemini SE. The On July 30, 2014, the Group signed with a syndicate of 18 banks facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% a €750 million multi-currency credit facility, maturing on July 30, of the margin. The margin currently applicable is 0.45% and the 2019, with two one-year extension options, exercisable (subject fee on undrawn amounts is 0.1575%. to the approval of the banks) at the end of the first and An upgrade or downgrade in Capgemini SE’s credit rating would second years, respectively, extending the maturity of the new have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The other facility by a maximum of two additional years. Following the main terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular with exercise of the second one-year extension option, the maturity respect to certain financial ratios, are detailed in Note 29 of this credit facility was extended to July 27, 2021. Off-balance sheet commitments. The initial margin on this credit facility was 0.45% (excluding the This credit facility had not been drawn as of December 31, 2017. fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion of REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 223 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Net debt by maturity at redemption value contractual nominal interest rates and assuming the bonds would be redeemed in full at maturity. The contractual cash flows The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted associated with “Obligations under finance leases” represent value of future contractual cash flows. Future cash flows relating contractual repayments of the liability. to the 2015 and 2016 bond issues were estimated based on Less Contractual Carrying Contractual than 1 to 2 to Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years At December 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 1,988 1,988 1,988 Cash management assets 2018 168 168 168 2015 Bond issue – July 2018 2018 (500) (502) (502) 2015 Bond issue – July 2020 2020 (1,258) (1,316) (22) (22) (1,272) 2015 Bond issue – July 2023 2023 (1,008) (1,150) (25) (25) (75) (1,025) 2016 Bond issue 2021 (498) (510) (3) (3) (504) Obligations under finance leases 2018 to 2022 (87) (90) (46) (28) (16) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 2018 to 2022 (21) (22) (21) (1) Borrowings (3,372) (3,590) (619) (78) (1,868) (1,025) Derivative instruments on borrowings 7 NET DEBT (1,209) (1,434) 1,537 (78) (1,868) (1,025) At December 31, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 1,870 1,870 1,870 Cash management assets 2017 157 157 157 2015 Bond issue – July 2018 2018 (500) (505) (3) (502) 2015 Bond issue – July 2020 2020 (1,256) (1,338) (22) (22) (1,294) 2015 Bond issue – July 2023 2023 (1,008) (1,175) (25) (25) (75) (1,050) 2016 Bond issue 2021 (497) (513) (3) (3) (507) Obligations under finance leases 2017 to 2020 (100) (105) (53) (34) (18) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings 2017 to 2020 (42) (105) (52) (18) (35) Borrowings (3,403) (3,741) (158) (604) (1,929) (1,050) Derivative instruments on borrowings (37) NET DEBT (1,413) (1,714) 1,869 (604) (1,929) (1,050) 224 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents and liquidity risk and credit risk The 2015 bonds issues and the 2016 bond issues are the main Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or borrowings that could expose the Group to liquidity risk in the counterparty risk mainly consist of financial investments: in event of repayment. accordance with Group policy, cash balances are not invested in equity-linked products, but in (i) negotiable debt securities To manage the liquidity risk that could arise from these (certificates of deposit), (ii) term deposits, (iii) capitalization borrowings becoming due and payable, at the contractual due contracts or (iv) short-term money market mutual funds, subject date or early, the Group has implemented a conservative to minimum credit rating and diversification rules. financing policy mainly based on: At December 31, 2017, short-term investments totaled  prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of €1,497 million and comprise mainly (i) money market mutual any clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings; fund units meeting the criteria defined by ESMA (European  maintaining a high level of available funds at all times; Securities and Markets Authority) for classification in the  actively managing borrowing due dates in order to limit the “monetary category”; and (ii) negotiable debt securities and term concentration of maturities; deposits maturing within three months or immediately available, issued by highly rated companies or financial institutions  using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to (minimum rating of A2/P2 or equivalent). Consequently, these reduce its reliance on certain categories of lenders. short-term investments do not expose the Group to any material credit risk. 4 Note 22 Cash flows The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the resulting from the translation of cash flows relating to foreign year-on-year change in cash flows from operating, investing currency assets and liabilities at the year-end exchange rate and financing activities. are shown in “Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents” in the Statement of Cash Flows. Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the average exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses At December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents totaled Net cash from operating activities €1,988 million (see Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash In 2017, net cash from operating activities totaled €1,330 million equivalents), up €118 million on December 31, 2016 (compared with €1,319 million in 2016) and resulted from: (€1,870 million). Excluding the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents of negative  cash flows from operations before net finance costs and €91 million, this increase is €209 million. Cash flow impacts are income tax in the amount of €1,532 million; shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  payment of current income taxes in the amount of €139 million;  an increase in working capital requirements, generating a negative cash impact of €63 million. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 225 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows: Statement of Cash Working capital requirement components Neutralization of items Flows (Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) with no cash impact items ReclassifiNon Foreign cations (2) working Impact Net exand changes December December Net capital of WCR profit change in Group in millions of euros Notes 31, 2016 31, 2017 impact items (1) items impact impact structure Amount Accounts and notes receivable, excl. capitalized costs on projects 19 2,981 3,166 (185) (3) (188) (144) 28 (304) Capitalized costs on projects 19 93 99 (6) (6) (6) (12) Advances from customers and billed in advance 19 (737) (890) 153 153 29 9 191 Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (38) (3) (41) (121) 37 (125) Accounts and notes payable (accounts payable) 27 (1,105) (1,124) 19 4 23 52 (20) 55 Changes in accounts and notes payable 19 4 23 52 (20) 55 Other non-current assets 18 374 311 63 (72) (9) (6) (18) (33) Other current assets 20 627 657 (30) (16) (46) 6 (18) 19 (39) Accounts and notes payable (excluding accounts payable) 27 (1,713) (1,713) 0 1 1 60 (4) 57 Other current and non-current liabilities 26 (367) (392) 25 (10) 15 8 (1) 22 Change in other receivables/payables 58 (97) (39) 6 44 (4) 7 CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL (57) 6 (25) 13 (63) (1) Non-working capital items comprise cash flows relating to investing and financing activities, payment of the income tax expense and non-cash items. (2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non-current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable and changes in the position of certain tax and employee-related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities Net cash from financing activities The main components of net cash used in investing activities of Net cash outflows as a result of financing activities totaled €534 million (compared with €251 million in 2016) reflect: €587 million (compared with cash outflow of €1,115 million in 2016) and mainly comprised:  cash outflows of €161 million relating to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment, net of disposals, primarily due  cash outflows of €531 million for the buyback of own shares; to purchases of computer hardware for customer projects or  payment of the 2016 dividend of €262 million; the partial renewal of IT installations and the renovation, extension and refurbishment of office space;  cash outflows of €54 million to reimburse obligations under finance leases;  cash outflows of €65 million relating to acquisitions of intangible assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software  cash outflows of €24 million in respect of interest payments for customer projects or for internal use and internally net of interest received, generated intangible assets (see Note 13 Goodwill and offset by: intangible assets);  the €320 million share capital increase following the issue of  cash inflows and outflows on business combinations net of new shares under the international employee share cash and cash equivalents acquired of €238 million. ownership plan (see Note 12 E Equity). 226 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Organic free cash flow Organic free cash flow calculated based on items in the Statement of Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost. At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2016 2017 Cash flows from operations 1,319 1,330 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (197) (241) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 21 15 Acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) (176) (226) Interest paid (115) (86) Interest received 43 62 Net interest cost (72) (24) ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW 1,071 1,080 Note 23 Currency, interest rate and counterparty risk management 4 Currency risk management b) Currency risk and hedging financial transactions A) Exposure to currency risk and currency risk The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in management policy respect of:  inter-company financing transactions, mainly within the a) Currency risk and hedging operating transactions parent company, these flows generally being hedged (in The significant use of offshore production centers located in particular using forward purchase and sale foreign exchange India, Poland, China and Latin America, exposes the Group to contracts); currency risk with respect to some of its production costs.  fees paid to the parent company by subsidiaries whose The Group implements a policy aimed at minimizing and functional currency is not the euro. managing these currency risks, due in the majority to internal flows with India. The hedging policy and the management of c) Sensitivity of revenues and the operating margin* to operational currency risk is centralized at parent company level. fluctuations in the main currencies Currency risk is managed primarily based on periodic reporting A 10% fluctuation in the US dollar-euro exchange rate would by subsidiaries of their exposure to currency risk over principally trigger a corresponding 2.8% change in revenues and a 2.4% the coming one to three years. On this basis, the parent company change in the operating margin (1) amount. Similarly, a 10% acting as an internal bank, grants internal currency guarantees to fluctuation in the pound sterling-euro exchange rate would subsidiaries and enters into currency hedges with its bank trigger a corresponding 1.3% change in revenues and a 1.2% counterparties, primarily through forward purchase and sale change in the operating margin (1) amount. foreign exchange contracts. These hedging transactions are recorded in accordance with cash B) Hedging derivatives flow hedge accounting rules. Amounts hedged at December 31, 2017 using forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts, mainly concern the parent company and the centralized management of currency risk on operating transactions and inter-company financing transactions. (1) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 227 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements As of December 31, 2017, the euro-equivalent value of forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts breaks down by transaction type and maturity as follows: > 6 months and in millions of euros < 6 months < 12 months > 12 months Total Operating transactions 1,461 1,298 1,776 4,535 o/w ■ fair value hedge 406 406 ■ cash flow hedge 1,055 1,298 1,776 4,129 Financial transactions 354 208 562 o/w ■ fair value hedge 354 208 562 TOTAL 1,815 1,298 1,984 5,097 Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions mainly Hedges contracted in respect of financial transactions concern comprise forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts Capgemini SE in the amount of €562 million at December 31, maturing between 2018 and 2021 with an aggregate euro2017, after the early unwinding at the end of April 2017 of equivalent value at closing exchange rates of €4,535 million EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps. They mainly concern (€4,164 million at December 31, 2016). The hedges were chiefly inter-company loans for €546 million (€1,241 million at taken out in respect of transactions in Indian rupee (INR219,000 December 31, 2016), primarily denominated in US dollar and million), US dollars (US$1,117 million) and Polish zloty (PLN1,218 Swedish krona. million). The Group’s overall exposure to currency risk on assets/liabilities The maturities of the hedges range from 1 to 45 months and the primarily concerns the Group’s internal financing activity. main counterparty is Capgemini SE for a euro-equivalent value of €4,445 million. At December 31, 2017 Other in millions of euros US dollar Swedish krona Indian rupee currencies Total Assets 604 5 246 855 Liabilities (64) (36) (191) (230) (521) Net exposure in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 334 Hedging derivatives (372) NET EXPOSURE (38) At December 31, 2016 Other in millions of euros US dollar Swedish krona Indian rupee currencies Total Assets 245 8 247 500 Liabilities (1,098) (130) (151) (226) (1,605) Net exposure in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (1,105) Hedging derivatives 946 NET EXPOSURE (159) 228 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements C) Fair value of hedging derivatives Hedging derivatives are recorded in the following accounts: At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2016 2017 Other non-current assets 18 120 53 Other current assets 20 149 121 Other current and non-current liabilities 26 (89) (18) Fair value of hedging derivatives, net 180 156 Relating to: ■ operating transactions 217 149 ■ financial transactions (37) 7 The main hedging derivatives notably comprise the fair value of the amount of €110 million, in “Other non-current liabilities” in derivative instruments contracted as part of the centralized the amount of €8 million and in “Other current liabilities” in the management of currency risk recorded in “Other non-current amount of €10 million. assets” in the amount of €53 million, in “Other current assets” in The change in the period in derivative instruments hedging operating and financial transactions recorded in income and expense recognized in equity breaks down as follows: 4 in millions of euros 2017 Hedging derivatives recorded in income and expense recognized in equity at January 1 203 Amounts reclassified to net profit in respect of transactions performed (8) Fair value of derivative instruments hedging future transactions (88) HEDGING DERIVATIVES RECORDED IN INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31 107 Interest rate risk management Based on average levels of floating-rate short-term investments, cash management assets and borrowings at floating rates, a A) Interest rate risk management policy 100-basis point rise in interest rates would have had a positive The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed in impact of around €6 million on the Group’s net finance costs light of its cash position: at December 31, 2017, the Group had in 2017. Conversely, a 100-basis point fall in interest rates would €2,156 million in cash and cash equivalents, with short-term have had an estimated €6 million negative impact on the Group’s investments mainly at floating rates (or failing this, at fixed rates net finance costs. for periods of less than or equal to three months), and €3,372 million in gross indebtedness principally at fixed rates Counterparty risk management (85%) (see Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents). In addition, in line with its policies for managing currency and The high proportion of fixed-rate borrowings is due to the interest rate risks as described above, the Group also enters into weight of fixed-rate bond issues in gross indebtedness. hedging agreements with leading financial institutions. Accordingly, counterparty risk can be deemed not material. At B) Exposure to Interest rate risk: sensitivity analysis December 31, 2017, the Group’s main counterparties for managing As 85% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates in 2017, any currency and interest rate risk are Barclays, BNP Paribas, CA CIB, increase or decrease in interest rates would have had a negligible Citibank, Commerzbank, HSBC, ING, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, impact on the Group’s net finance costs. Natixis, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander, and Société Générale. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 229 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 24 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined contribution plans The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds, of a currency and term Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid consistent with the forecast outflows of the post-employment by employees and Group companies to the organizations benefit obligation. responsible for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations are limited to the payment of such contributions which are For funded plans, only the estimated funding deficit is covered expensed as incurred. The Group’s obligation under these by a provision. plans is recorded in “Accounts and notes payable”. Defined Current and past service costs corresponding to an increase contribution plans are operated in most European countries in the obligation are recorded within “Operating expenses” (France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and of the period. Central Europe, Nordic countries, Italy and Spain), in the United States and in the Asia-Pacific area. Gains or losses on the curtailment, settlement or transfer of defined benefit pension plans are recognized in “Other Defined benefit pension plans operating income” or “Other operating expense.” Defined benefit pension plans consist of either: The impact of discounting defined benefit obligations as well  unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the as the expected return on plan assets is recorded net in “Other Group and the related obligation is covered by a provision financial expense” or “Other financial income.” corresponding to the present value of future benefit Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes payments. Estimates are based on regularly reviewed in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. internal and external assumptions. These unfunded plans differences between projected actuarial assumptions and correspond mainly to retirement termination payments and actual data) on the amount of the benefit obligation or the healthcare assistance plans; value of plan assets. They are recognized in full in “Income and  funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by expense recognized in equity” in the year in which they arise external funds. Group contributions to these external funds (with the related tax effect). are made in accordance with the specific regulations in force in each country. Obligations under these plans are determined by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement and each of these units is valued separately in order to obtain the amount of the Group’s final obligation. Breakdown of provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits comprise obligations under funded defined benefit plans (particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada) and obligations primarily relating to retirement termination payments (particularly in France, Germany, Sweden and India). Provision for pensions and other post-employment benefits by main countries Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position (in millions of euros) 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 United Kingdom 3,633 3,490 (2,787) (2,886) 846 604 Canada 674 716 (484) (479) 190 237 France 237 263 (22) (20) 215 243 Germany 101 99 (57) (56) 44 43 Sweden 34 31 (9) (10) 25 21 India 45 59 (27) (48) 18 11 Other 145 154 (109) (117) 36 37 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 4,869 4,812 (3,495) (3,616) 1,374 1,196 230 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Movements in provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits during the last two fiscal years were as follows: Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros Note 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 4,498 4,869 (3,282) (3,495) 1,216 1,374 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 209 201 (113) (98) 96 103 Service cost 7 59 69 59 69 Interest cost 9 150 132 (113) (98) 37 34 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 772 54 (496) (189) 276 (135) Change in actuarial gains and losses 772 54 772 54 Impact of changes in financial assumptions 858 204 858 204 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions (11) (114) (11) (114) Experience adjustments (75) (36) (75) (36) 4 Return on plan assets (1) (496) (189) (496) (189) Other (610) (312) 396 166 (214) (146) Contributions paid by employees 7 7 (7) (7) Benefits paid to employees (152) (158) 124 147 (28) (11) Contributions paid (89) (94) (89) (94) Translation adjustments (469) (188) 369 144 (100) (44) Other movements 4 27 (1) (24) 3 3 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 4,869 4,812 (3,495) (3,616) 1,374 1,196 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. Analysis of the change in provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits A) United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, post-employment benefits primarily The plans are subject to the supervision of the UK Pension consist of defined contribution pension plans with some Regulator; the funding schedules for these plans are determined employees accruing pensionable service within a defined benefit by an independent actuary as part of actuarial valuations usually pension plan. In addition certain former and current employees carried out every three years. Capgemini UK Plc., the employer, accrue deferred benefits in defined benefit pension plans. The gives firm commitments to the trustees regarding the funding of plans are administered within trusts which are legally separate any deficits identified, over an agreed period. from the employer and are governed by a trustee Board The responsibility to fund these plans lies with the employer. The comprising independent trustees and representatives of the defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to the increase employer. in liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy The defined benefit pension plans provide pensions and lump of members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, sums to members on retirement and to their dependents on more generally, a downturn in financial markets. death. Members who leave service before retirement are The average maturity of pension plans in the United Kingdom is entitled to a deferred pension. The main plan is closed to the 22 years. accrual of benefits for all current employees since March 31, 2015. In accordance with local regulations, the non-renewal of certain client contracts in full or in part could require Capgemini UK Plc. Employees covered by defined benefit pension plans break down to bring forward the funding of any deficits in respect of the as follows: employees concerned.  617 current employees accruing pensionable service (700 at December 31, 2016);  7,583 former and current employees not accruing pensionable service (7,690 at December 31, 2016);  2,972 retirees (2,868 at December 31, 2016). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 231 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 3,330 3,633 (2,633) (2,787) 697 846 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 121 106 (88) (72) 33 34 Service cost 10 12 10 12 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers Interest cost 111 94 (88) (72) 23 22 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 765 (18) (481) (174) 284 (192) Change in actuarial gains and losses 765 (18) 765 (18) Impact of changes in financial assumptions 830 151 830 151 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions (139) (139) Experience adjustments (65) (30) (65) (30) Return on plan assets (1) (481) (174) (481) (174) Other (583) (231) 415 147 (168) (84) Contributions paid by employees 1 1 (1) (1) Benefits paid to employees (72) (105) 72 105 Contributions paid (58) (58) (58) (58) Translation adjustments (512) (127) 402 101 (110) (26) PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 3,633 3,490 (2,787) (2,886) 846 604 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. a) Main actuarial assumptions Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate in % At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2017 Discount rate 2.6-2.8 2.4 Salary inflation rate 2.3-3.1 2.3-3.1 Inflation rate 3.1 3.1 Mortality tables used are those commonly used in the United Kingdom. b) Plan assets in millions of euros At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2017 Shares 1,377 49% 1,516 52% Bonds and hedging assets 1,336 48% 1,322 46% Other 74 3% 48 2% TOTAL 2,787 100% 2,886 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, the majority of which in developed markets. Bonds and hedging assets consist of bonds invested in liquid markets. A portion of these investments seeks to partially hedge interest rate risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists of UK government bonds (GILT), owned directly or borrowed via sale and repurchase agreements. 232 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2017 in millions of euros Rate increase Rate decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (345) 399 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 264 (256) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate (57) 61 d) Contributions Future contributions Contributions to defined benefit pension funds in the United Kingdom in respect of 2018 are estimated at €58 million, including the funding of pension plan deficits over the period defined with the trustees as part of the regular actuarial valuations. B) Canada In Canada, defined post-employment benefits consist of defined In accordance with local regulations, the non-renewal of certain benefit pension plans and other pension and similar plans. The client contracts in full or in part could require the Canadian plan assets are held in trust separately from the employer’s entities to bring forward the funding of any deficits in respect of assets. Nonetheless, the responsibility to fund the plans lies with the employees concerned. the employer. The plans expose the Group to the increase in 4 In Canada, employees covered by defined benefit pension plans liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy of break down as follows: members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more generally, a downturn in financial markets.  927 current employees accruing pensionable service (1,000 at December 31, 2016); The average maturity of pension plans in Canada is 20 years.  88 former and current employees not accruing pensionable The plans are subject to regular actuarial valuations performed service (80 at December 31, 2016); at least every three years.  348 retirees (303 at December 31, 2016). Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 624 674 (448) (484) 176 190 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 50 49 (19) (18) 31 31 Service cost 25 25 25 25 Interest cost 25 24 (19) (18) 6 6 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity (6) 55 (9) (9) (15) 46 Change in actuarial gains and losses (6) 55 (6) 55 Impact of changes in financial assumptions 14 57 14 57 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions (14) (2) (14) (2) Experience adjustments (6) (6) (1) Return on plan assets (9) (9) (9) (9) Other 6 (62) (8) 32 (2) (30) Contributions paid by employees 4 4 (4) (4) Benefits paid to employees (45) (26) 43 23 (2) (3) Contributions paid (14) (15) (14) (15) Translation adjustments 42 (40) (30) 28 12 (12) Other movements 5 (3) 2 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 674 716 (484) (479) 190 237 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 233 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements a) Main actuarial assumptions Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate in % At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2017 Discount rate 3.9 3.4 Salary inflation rate 2.8 2.3 Inflation rate 2.0 2.0 In 2017, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in Canada. b) Plan assets in millions of euros At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2017 Shares 280 58% 271 57% Bonds and hedging assets 199 41% 198 41% Other 5 1% 10 2% TOTAL 484 100% 479 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, the majority of which in developed markets. Bonds primarily comprise Canadian government bonds. A portion of these investments seeks to partially hedge interest rate risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists of Canadian government bonds, owned directly or borrowed via sale and repurchase agreements. c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2017 in millions of euros Rate increase Rate decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (66) 74 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 47 (42) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate 3 d) Future contributions Contributions to the Canadian defined benefit pension funds in respect of 2018 are estimated at €16 million, including the funding of pension plan deficits defined as part of the regular actuarial valuations. 234 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 25 Non current and current provisions A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the Financial Position at the year-end if, and only if, (i) the Group obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted when the past event; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources impact of the time value of money is material. Movements in current and non-current provisions break down as follows: in millions of euros 2016 2017 At January 1 118 130 Charge 46 55 Reversals (utilization of provisions) (14) (46) Reversals (surplus provisions) (16) (14) Other (4) (12) AT DECEMBER 31 130 113 4 At December 31, 2017, current provisions (€88 million) and non-current provisions (€25 million) mainly concern risks relating to projects and contracts of €96 million (€110 million at December 31, 2016) and risks relating to tax and labor disputes of €17 million (€20 million at December 31, 2016). Note 26 Other non current and current liabilities At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2016 2017 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 28 34 Derivative instruments 23 89 18 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 147 201 Non-current tax liabilities 16 43 Other 87 96 OTHER CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 22 367 392 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist for €117 million of put options granted to Caixa Participacões and EMC in 2012 and 2013 on their investments in Capgemini Brasil S.A. (formerly CPM Braxis) and earn-outs granted at the time of certain acquisitions. At December 31, 2016, derivative instruments primarily consisted of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps valued at €35 million. These contracts were unwound early in fiscal 2017. Note 27 Accounts and notes payable At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2016 2017 Accounts payable 1,105 1,124 Accrued taxes other than income tax 392 409 Personnel costs 1,311 1,291 Other 10 13 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 22 2,818 2,837 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 235 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 28 Number of employees Average number of employees by geographic area 2016 2017 Employees % Employees % North America 16,846 9 17,377 9 France 23,690 13 24,489 13 United Kingdom and Ireland 9,075 5 8,561 4 Benelux 8,200 4 7,970 4 Southern Europe 7,713 4 8,349 4 Nordic countries 4,041 2 4,173 2 Germany and Central Europe 11,897 7 13,245 7 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 103,972 56 112,445 57 Not allocated 159 146 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 185,593 100 196,755 100 Number of employees at December 31 by geographic area 2016 2017 Employees % Employees % North America 16,895 9 17,209 9 France 24,226 13 25,299 13 United Kingdom and Ireland 9,025 5 8,217 4 Benelux 8,037 4 8,011 4 Southern Europe 8,074 4 8,629 4 Nordic countries 4,067 2 4,247 2 Germany and Central Europe 12,464 6 13,970 7 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 110,135 57 113,968 57 Not allocated 154 148 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 193,077 100 199,698 100 Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments Off-balance sheet commitments relating In addition, certain clients enjoy: to Group operating activities  limited financial guarantees issued by the Group and totaling €1,719 million at December 31, 2017 (€1,601 million at A) Commitments given on client contracts December 31, 2016); The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees  bank guarantees borne by the Group and totaling €170 million for a number of major contracts. The clients concerned at December 31, 2017 (€197 million at December 31, 2016). represented approximately 8% of Group revenue in 2017. 236 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements B) Commitments given on non-cancellable leases Commitments given on non-cancellable leases break down by maturity as follows: Vehicles and other Computer non-cancellable in millions of euros equipment Offices leases Total Y+1 6 182 54 242 Y+2 4 142 37 183 Y+3 2 96 20 118 Y+4 2 77 6 85 Y+5 65 65 Y+6 and beyond 114 114 AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 14 676 117 807 At December 31, 2016 16 635 124 775 Lease payments recognized in the Income Statement in 2017 totaled €339 million (€362 million in 2016). C) Other commitments given  the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated 4 Other commitments given total €30 million at December 31, net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating 2017 (€37 million at December 31, 2016) and mainly comprise margin (1)) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 firm purchase commitments relating to goods or services in the and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). United Kingdom and France. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Group complied with these financial ratios. D) Other commitments received The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting Other commitments received total €118 million at December 31, Capgemini SE’s ability to carry out certain operations. These 2017 (€130 million at December 31, 2016) and primarily comprise: covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include  commitments received on client contracts. The Group restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, received a limited financial guarantee of €50 million from a asset sales, mergers and similar transactions. Capgemini SE also client on the signature of a contract in 2010; committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to maintain pari passu status.  commitments received following the purchase of shares held by certain minority shareholders of Capgemini Brasil S.A. for C) Borrowings secured by assets an amount of €59 million. Some borrowings are secured by assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, Off-balance sheet commitments relating 2017, these related to finance leases in the amount of to Group financing €87 million and other borrowings in the amount of €3 million. A) Bonds Contingent liabilities Capgemini SE has committed to standard obligations in respect of the 2015 bond issues and the 2016 bond issue detailed in During 2017 and in previous fiscal years, certain Group Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents, and companies underwent tax audits leading in some cases to tax particularly to maintain pari passu status with all other reassessments. A number of proposed adjustments have been marketable bonds that may be issued by the Company. challenged and litigation and pre-litigation proceedings were in progress at the period end. In general, no provisions have been set aside for these disputes in the consolidated financial B) Syndicated credit facility obtained by Capgemini SE statements in so far as Capgemini can justify its positions and and not drawn to date considers the likelihood of winning the disputes to be high. This Capgemini SE has agreed to comply with the following financial is particularly the case, in France, for research tax credits for the ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of the credit facility period 2008 to 2013, in respect of which the tax authorities have disclosed in Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents: rejected the portion concerning private clients in certain  the consolidated net debt (1) to consolidated equity ratio must companies registered for the research tax credit. be less than 1 at all times; (1) The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin and net debt) are defined in Note 3 Alternative performance measures, and broken down in Note 21 Net debt/Net cash and cash equivalents. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 237 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 30 Related-party transactions Associates Moreover, it is worth noting that Caixa Participacões, a minority Associates are equity-accounted companies over which the shareholder, is also one of Capgemini Brasil S.A.’s main clients, accounting for approximately 24% of its revenues. Group exercises significant influence. At December 31, 2017, O2C Pro LLC is the only company equity-accounted by the Group Finally, MM Consulting, whose Chairman and Chief Executive since the acquisition of a 49% stake. Transactions with this equity Officer is Yann Delabrière (a director of Capgemini SE), signed a associate in 2017 were performed at arm’s length and were of one-year agreement with Capgemini Consulting to provide this immaterial volume. entity with assistance in the Digital Manufacturing market, by contributing its knowledge of the automobile sector. Fees of Other related-parties €157,500 were invoiced to the consulting entity for work performed in 2017 under the terms of the agreement which In 2017, no material transactions were carried out with: entered into effect in October 2016.  shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share capital of Capgemini SE; Group management compensation  members of management, including directors; The table below provides a breakdown of the 2016 and  entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of key 2017 compensation of members of management bodies at each management personnel, or over which he/she has significant year-end (22 members in 2017 and 26 in 2016) and directors influence or holds significant voting rights. (compensation, attendance fees and fees). in thousands of euros 2016 2017 (1) Short-term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes 24,166 21,943 o/w attendance fees paid to salaried directors 80 196 (2) (3) o/w attendance fees paid to non-salaried directors 719 1,004 Short-term benefits: employer payroll taxes 4,573 5,144 Post-employment benefits (4) 1,695 1,258 (5) Share-based payment 9,781 8,722 (1) Including gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit-sharings, attendance fees,fees and benefits in kind. (2) Note that Paul Hermelin has waived receipt of his attendance fees since 2011. (3) 15 directors in 2016 and 16 in 2017. (4) Primarily the annualized expense in respect of retirement termination payments pursuant to contract and/or a collective bargaining agreement. (5) Deferred recognition of the annualized expense relating to the grant of performance shares. Note 31 Subsequent events At the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors On February 5, 2018, the Group announced the acquisition of will recommend a dividend payout to Capgemini SE shareholders LiquidHub, a digital customer engagement firm. The transaction of €1.70 per share in respect of 2017. A dividend of €1.55 per is due to close in the next couple of months. share was paid in respect of fiscal year 2016. 238 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 32 List of the main consolidated companies by country Capgemini SE is the parent company of what is generally known as “the Capgemini Group” comprising 137 companies. The main consolidated companies at December 31, 2017 are listed below. Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2017 % interest Method (1) ARGENTINA Capgemini Argentina S.A. 100.00% FC AUSTRALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Limited 100.00% FC AUSTRIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100.00% FC BELGIUM Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100.00% FC BRAZIL Capgemini Business Services Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda. 100.00% FC Capgemini Brasil S.A. 78.61% FC CPM Braxis Tecnologia, Ltda. 78.61% FC CANADA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Solutions Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Inergi LP 100.00% FC New Horizon System Solutions LP 100.00% FC 4 Société en Commandite Capgemini Québec 100.00% FC CHINA Capgemini (China) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC DENMARK Capgemini Danmark A/S 100.00% FC FINLAND Capgemini Finland Oy 100.00% FC Sogeti Finland Oy 100.00% FC Idean Enterprises Oy 100.00% FC FRANCE Capgemini SE Parent company Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Latin America S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie S.A.S. 100.00% FC SCI Paris Étoile 100.00% FC Silgem S.A.S. 50.00% FC Itelios S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti Corporate Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti S.A.S. 100.00% FC GERMANY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Idean Enterprises GmbH 100.00% FC GUATEMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100.00% FC INDIA Capgemini Technology Services India Limited 99.77% FC (1) FC = Full consolidation, EM = Equity method. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 239 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2017 % interest Method (1) IRELAND Capgemini Ireland Limited 100.00% FC ITALY Capgemini BS S.r.l. 100.00% FC Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100.00% FC JAPAN Capgemini Japan K.K. 100.00% FC LUXEMBOURG Capgemini Reinsurance International S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100.00% FC MEXICO Capgemini México S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% FC MOROCCO Capgemini Technology Services Maroc SA 100.00% FC NETHERLANDS Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini N.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Dunit B.V. 100.00% FC Sogeti Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC NORWAY Capgemini Norge AS 100.00% FC POLAND Capgemini Polska Sp. z.o.o. 100.00% FC PORTUGAL Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informática S.A. 100.00% FC SINGAPORE Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% FC SPAIN Capgemini España S.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie Ibérica S.L. 100.00% FC Sogeti España S.L. 100.00% FC SWEDEN Capgemini AB 100.00% FC Capgemini Sverige AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige AB 100.00% FC SWITZERLAND Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC UNITED KINGDOM Capgemini Financial Services UK Limited 100.00% FC Capgemini UK plc 100.00% FC CGS Holdings Limited 100.00% FC IGATE Computer Systems (UK) Limited 100.00% FC IGATE Information Services (UK) Limited 100.00% FC Sogeti UK Limited 100.00% FC Lyons Consulting Group Limited 100.00% FC UNITED STATES Capgemini America, Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini North America, Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technologies LLC 100.00% FC CHCS Services, Inc. 100.00% FC Restaurant Application Development International LLC 100.00% FC Idean Enterprises, Inc. 100.00% FC O2C Pro LLC 49.00% EM Lyons Consulting Group LLC 100.00% FC (1) FC = Full consolidation, EM = Equity method. 240 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 33 Audit fees Statutory audit fees for fiscal year 2017 breakdown as follows: KPMG PwC in millions of euros (excl. VAT) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Certification of the accounts 3.2 3.3 3.0 3.1 ■ Capgemini SE 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 ■ Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 2.7 2.8 2.5 2.6 Non-audit services (1) 1.8 1.8 1.3 1.5 TOTAL 5.0 5.1 4.3 4.6 (1) The majority of these fees concern assignments performed at the request of our clients pursuant to ISA 34-02 and concern the audit of applications and/or processes outsourced to the Group. 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 241 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This Statutory Auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the Statutory Auditors or verification of the information concerning the Group presented in the Management Report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31, 2017 To the Annual General Meeting of Capgemini SE, Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Capgemini SE for the year ended December 31, 2017. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for Opinion Audit Framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2017 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. Recognition of revenue and costs related to long-term service contracts Risks identified Capgemini is present in the professional IT services market and notably provides long-term services. As described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, the method used to recognize revenue and costs related to long-term contracts depends on the nature of the services rendered, as follows:  revenue from long-term fixed-price contracts is recognized as and when the services are rendered using the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion is determined for each project by correlating the total costs incurred at the end of the reporting period to the total estimated project costs. Costs are recognized as incurred; and  revenue from outsourcing contracts is recognized over the term of the contract based on the total services rendered. Costs related to outsourcing contracts are expensed in the period in which they were incurred. The costs incurred in the initial phase of the contract (transition and/or transformation costs) may be deferred when they are specific to a given contract, relate to a future activity and/or will generate future economic benefits, and are recoverable. These costs are subsequently classified in work-in-progress. Provisions for loss on completion are recognized in liabilities when the amount of the costs to be incurred exceeds the revenue not yet recognized on the contract. The amount of revenue and the costs to be recognized for the period, and of any provisions for loss on completion at the end of the reporting period, depends on the Group’s ability to:  identify all separable items in the long-term multi-service contracts and determine their accounting treatment;  determine the accounting treatment for transition and transformation costs linked to long term contracts implementation;  measure the costs incurred or the total services rendered;  estimate the costs to be incurred up until the end of the contract. 242 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements In light of the judgments and estimates made by management to determine how revenue and costs should be recognized, we deemed the recognition of revenue and costs related to long-term service contracts to be a key matter in our audit. Our audit approach We gained an understanding of the process related to recognizing various revenue flows. Our approach took into account the information systems used in recognizing revenue and related costs by testing, with the assistance of our IT specialists, the effectiveness of the automatic controls for systems impacting revenue recognition. Our work notably involved:  assessing internal control procedures, identifying the most relevant controls for our audit and testing their design and operational efficiency;  reviewing, based on a sample of contracts, the method used to recognize revenue and costs, comparing the accounting data against the operational monitoring of projects and assessing the reasonableness of the estimated used, particularly as regards measuring costs to be incurred;  carrying out analytical audit procedures, and notably analyzing material changes in revenue and margin from one period to another;  assessing the appropriateness of the information provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Measurement of Goodwill Risks identified As part of its business development, the Group makes targeted acquisitions and recognizes goodwill as an asset in the consolidated financial statements. 4 Goodwill corresponds to the difference between the purchase price and the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is allocated to the various cash generating units (CGU) based on the value in use of each CGU. At least once a year, Management ensures that the net carrying amount of goodwill recognized as an asset, amounting to €6,830 million at December 31, 2017, is not greater than the recoverable amount. Indeed, an adverse change in the business activities to which goodwill has been allocated, due to internal or external factors such as the financial and economic environment in markets where Capgemini operates, may have a significant adverse effect on the recoverable amount of goodwill and require the recognition of impairment. In such a case, it is necessary to reassess the relevance of the assumptions used to determine the recoverable amounts and the reasonableness and consistency of the criteria used in the calculation. The impairment testing methods and details of the assumptions made are described in Note 15 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. The recoverable amount is determined based on value in use, which is calculated based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the asset group comprising each cash generating unit. We believe that the measurement of goodwill is a key audit matter, due to the significant amount of goodwill reported in the financial statements and its sensitivity to the assumptions made by Management. Our audit approach Our work entailed:  assessing the appropriateness of the method used to identify cash generating units (CGU);  gaining an understanding of and assessing the impairment testing process implemented by Management;  verifying the appropriateness of the model used to calculate value in use;  analysing the consistency of cash flow forecasts with Management’s latest estimates presented to the Board of Directors as part of the budget process;  comparing the cash flow forecasts for financial years 2018 to 2020 with the business plans used for prior year impairment testing;  comparing 2017 earnings forecasts used for prior year impairment testing with actual results;  interviewing the financial and operational staff responsible for the geographic areas representing cash generating units to analyse the main assumptions used in the business plans and cross-check the assumptions with the explanations obtained;  assessing the methods used to calculate the discount rate applied to the estimated cash flows expected, as well as the long-term growth rate used to project the latest prior year expected cash flows to infinity; comparing these rates with market data and external sources and recalculating the rates based on our own data sources;  assessing sensitivity testing of value in use to a change in the main assumptions used by Management;  assessing the appropriateness of the financial information provided in Note 15 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Our firms’ valuation specialists were involved in this work. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 243 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Recoverability of deferred tax assets recognized on tax loss carry-forwards Risks identified As of December 31, 2017, the following items were recorded in the consolidated financial statements: €1,283 million in respect of deferred tax assets, including €763 million related to deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards, of which €554 million in the United States, and €172 million in deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets are only recognized when it is probable that the Company will have future taxable profits sufficient to recover them. Unrecognized deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards amounted to €228 million in the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. As stated in the Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Group’s ability to recognize deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carryforwards is assessed by management at the end of each reporting period, taking into account forecasts of future taxable profits. The probability of recovering deferred tax assets is primarily assessed based on a ten-year business plan, taking into account the probability of generating future taxable profits as well as an assessment by the Group and local Finance Departments of the Company’s ability to meet the goals set out in its business plan in light of the risks identified at the end of the reporting period in the jurisdiction concerned. We deemed the recognition of deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carryforwards to be a key matter in our audit due to their sensitivity to the assumptions used by management when it comes to recognizing these assets and to the materiality of their amounts. Our audit approach Our work consisted in assessing the Group’s ability to recognize deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards, primarily in view of:  existing deferred tax liabilities in the same tax jurisdiction that may be used to offset existing tax loss carryforwards prior to their expiry date; and  future taxable profits for each tax jurisdiction that may be used to absorb previous tax losses. We verified the appropriateness of the model adopted by management to identify the existing tax loss carryforwards to be used, whether through deferred tax liabilities or future taxable profits. To assess future taxable profits, we measured the reliability of the preparation process for the ten-year business plan, which the Group used as a basis to recognize its deferred tax assets, by:  analysing the consistency of cash flow forecasts with Management’s latest estimates presented to the Board of Directors as part of the budget process;  comparing forecasted profit and loss from prior periods with that of actual profit and loss for the periods concerned;  checking that the business plan data and long-term growth rates used in impairment testing accurately reflected those used in the measurement of deferred taxes;  conducting a critical review of the assumptions used by management to prepare profit and loss forecasts for the period beyond the three-year business plan approved by the Board of Directors. The review primarily focused on the assumptions’ consistency with the long-term growth rates used and the information gathered during our meetings with members of management. Based on current market interpretations, we also considered the potential impact of the US tax reform on the measurement of the US deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our firms’ tax specialists were involved in this work. Tax Audit Risks identified The Group is present in a large number of tax jurisdictions. The tax authorities in the countries in which the Group operates regularly ask questions relating to the Group’s position on subjects relating to its ordinary business. Tax audits may lead to re-assessments and disputes with the tax authorities. Estimates of risk relating to tax disputes are reviewed regularly for each subsidiary and by the Group’s Tax Department, with the assistance of external counsel for the most significant and complex disputes. As stated in Note 29 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, these reassessments have not been accrued in the financial statements, as the Group has justified its position and believes that it is probable that it will win the disputes. This is the case, for instance in France, for the research tax credit for financial years 2008 to 2013. For some companies that have received approval for the research tax credit, the part relating to private customers has been rejected by the tax authorities. We believe that tax risk is a key audit matter due to the Group’s exposure to tax issues related to its presence worldwide, to the research tax credit for financial years 2008 to 2013 in connection with the specific characteristics of its business sector, and the level of judgment required by Management in estimating risk and the amounts recognized. Our audit approach Through discussions with Management, we have gained an understanding of the procedures implemented by the Group to identify uncertain tax positions and, where appropriate, provision for tax risk. In addition, we have assessed the judgments made by Management to measure the probability of tax payable and the amount of potential exposures, and the reasonableness of the estimates made for providing tax risk. 244 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements We focused in particular on the effect of changes in local tax regulations and ongoing disputes with local tax authorities. To assess whether tax disputes have been correctly accounted for, with the assistance of our tax experts we:  conducted interviews with the Group’s Tax Department and with local Tax Departments to assess the current status of investigations and reassessment notices received from the tax authorities, and monitor the status of ongoing claims, disputes and pre-litigation proceedings;  consulted the decisions and recent correspondence between the Group’s companies and local tax authorities, along with the correspondence between the companies concerned and their legal counsel, when required;  performed a critical review of Management’s estimates and positions and the opinions of external advisors;  analyzed the responses from the Company’s external advisors to our requests for information;  verified that the latest developments have been taken into account in estimating the risks and provisions recognized in the balance sheet. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Risks identified As stated in the Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Group contributes to several post-employment defined benefit plans. The main pension plans in the United Kingdom, Canada and France represent an actuarial value of cumulative benefit obligations of €4,469 million out of a total of €4,812 million at December 31, 2017. Given that these benefit obligations are hedged, particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada, by dedicated assets with a fair value of €3,616 million, the net benefit obligation totaled €1,196 million at December 31, 2017. Calculating pension plan assets and liabilities as well as actuarial costs for the period requires the judgment of management to 4 determine which assumptions should be used, such as discount and inflation rates, salary inflation, staff turnover and life expectancy, etc. Any changes in these key assumptions can have a material impact on how the recognized net benefit obligation is determined and on the Group’s results. Accordingly, management solicits external actuaries to assist in determining these assumptions. In light of the amount the benefit obligation represents and the dedicated assets used to hedge it, as well as the judgment of management in determining actuarial assumptions and their resulting sensitivity, the obligations resulting from the defined benefit plans were deemed to be a key matter in our audit. Our audit approach We were informed of the procedures implemented by the Group for measuring post-employment net benefit obligations resulting from defined benefit plans. With the support of our actuaries, our work involved:  assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions regarding discount and inflation rates in light of current market conditions;  assessing assumptions as regards salary inflation and demographic data in order to measure their consistency with the specific nature of each plan and, where applicable, the relevant national and sector references;  confirming, based on sampling techniques, that individual data and the actuarial and statistical assumptions used by external actuaries to calculate the benefit obligation have been correctly transcribed;  verifying the accuracy of the calculations prepared by external actuaries;  assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions used to measure the dedicated assets. Verification of the Information Pertaining to the Group Presented in the Management Report As required by law we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information pertaining to the Group presented in the Management Report of the Board of Directors. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE by the Annual General Meeting held on April 25, 2002 for KPMG Audit and on May 24, 1996 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. As at December 31, 2017, KPMG Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit were in the 16th year and 22nd year of total uninterrupted engagement. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 245 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The consolidated financial statements were approved the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Objectives and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:  identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;  obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control;  evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the consolidated financial statements;  assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the Statutory Auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein;  evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;  obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The Statutory Auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these consolidated financial statements. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 26, 2018 Paris La Défense, February 26, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner 246 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.3 Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements 4.3 Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements 4.3.1 Income statement The Company reported operating income for the year ended  expenses of €382 million, mainly comprising foreign exchange December 31, 2017 of €393 million (including €300 million in losses on the pooling of currency risk at Group level royalties received from subsidiaries) compared with €304 million (€246 million), charges to provisions for equity interests last year (including €264 million in royalties). (€41 million), charges to provisions for foreign exchange losses (€22 million), as well as interest on bond issues and a currency Operating profit is €255 million, compared with €162 million swap (€72 million). in 2016. This €1,605 million increase in net finance income year-on-year Net finance income totaled €2,472 million (compared with was mainly due to the increase in net reversals of provisions for €867 million in 2016) and reflects the difference between: equity interests.  income of €2,854 million, mainly comprising reversals of Net non-recurring income is €5 million compared with a net provisions for equity interests (€2,389 million), particularly in non-recurring expense of €71 million in 2016. the United States, Netherlands, Italy and Spain, foreign exchange gains on the pooling of currency risk at Group level After an income tax expense of €13 million (compared with 4 (€323 million), dividends received from subsidiaries (€83 million) €8 million in 2016), notably reflecting the income tax expense of and income from loans granted to subsidiaries (€30 million); the tax consolidation group, the Company reported a net profit of €2,719 million. 4.3.2 Balance sheet Net investments rose from €15,719 million last year to Borrowings totaled €4,583 million at December 31, 2017, down €17,460 million at December 31, 2017. This €1,741 million €631 million compared with December 31, 2016. This decrease increase is mainly attributable to: was mainly due to:  net reversals of provisions for equity interests of  the €674 million decrease in bank overdrafts on the accounts €2,389 million; included in the Group’s cash pooling arrangement (Cash  a €527 million decrease in amounts receivable from controlled pooling international), for which the Company acts as the entities, mainly corresponding to a decrease in loan centralizing agent, offset in full by an opposite position of the outstandings with a US subsidiary; same amount in the Company’s cash and cash equivalents;  a €123 million decrease in other long-term investments  the €42 million increase in outstanding inter-company loans. corresponding to the net impact of treasury share In addition to the above, the following information is required transactions during the year. by law: Shareholders’ equity is €13,846 million, up €2,137 million on last External accounts payable of Capgemini SE total €593 thousand, year. This increase essentially reflects the difference between: €581 thousand of which are not yet due. Group accounts payable  2017 net profit (€2,719 million); total €8.3 million, none of which are due.  the €322 million share capital increase for cash reserved for Inter-company accounts receivable total €31,924 thousand, employees (ESOP 2017); including €550 thousand past due (including €395 thousand with China due to foreign exchange controls). Past due accounts  the €630 million share capital reduction by cancellation of receivable represent 0.1% of revenues. 6,680,523 Capgemini SE shares purchased under the share buyback program authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 18, 2016 and May 10, 2017;  and the May 24, 2017 dividend payment of €1.55 per share on the 168,828,050 shares making up the Company’s share capital at May 24, 2017 (after neutralization of the 321,530 treasury shares held by the Company), representing a total payment of €262 million. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 247 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.3 Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements 4.3.3 Appropriation of earnings During its meeting of February 14, 2018, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the following appropriation of net profit for the year: Net profit for the year €2,718,722,306.93 Allocation to the legal reserve €0.00 i.e. a balance of €2,718,722,306.93 Retained earnings of previous years €3,054,662,946.18 i.e. Distributable earnings at December 31, 2017 of €5,773,385,253.11 This amount will be allocated to: ■ payment of a dividend of €1.70 per share (1) €286,422,361.40 ■ retained earnings for the balance €5,486,962,891.71 Giving a total of: €5,773,385,253.11 (1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2017 and could therefore change if this number varies between January 1, 2018 and the ex-dividend date. This dividend of €1.70 on each of the 168,483,742 shares bearing The ex-dividend date will be June 4, 2018 and the dividend will dividend rights on January 1, 2018, will be eligible for the 40% be payable from June 6, 2018. If, at the time of payment of the tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code dividend, the number of treasury shares held by the Company (Code général des impôts) for private individuals tax resident in has changed compared to that held on December 31, 2017, the France who opt for taxation at the progressive income tax scale. fraction of the dividend relating to this variation will either Where this option is not made, the dividend will fall within the increase or reduce retained earnings. application scope of the flat-rate income tax advance payment mechanism introduced by the 2018 Finance Act and will no longer be eligible for this 40% rebate. Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled that the following amounts were paid over the past three fiscal years: Total amount distributed (1) Distributed Dividend per share (in euros) income (2) (in euros) (in euros) Fiscal year 2016 261,229,107.40 261,683,477.50 1.55 Fiscal year 2015 231,221,780.55 228,749,429.70 1.35 Fiscal year 2014 195,149,725.20 198,381,067.20 1.20 (1) Theoretical values calculated based on the number of shares bearing dividend rights on December 31 each year. (2) Amounts effectively paid after adjusting the number of shares bearing dividend rights for any change in the number of treasury shares, the issuance of new shares and/or the cancellation of existing shares between January 1 and the ex-dividend date. These amounts were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code (Code général des impôts) for each fiscal year. 248 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.3 Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements 4.3.4 Share capital and ownership structure At December 31, 2017, the share capital amounted to  Société Générale, which disclosed it held 5.79% of the €1,347,869,936 (compared with €1,372,514,120 at December 31, Company’s share capital and voting rights at December 27, 2016), divided into 168,483,742 fully paid-up shares with a par 2017 in the last legal threshold crossing disclosure received value of €8 each. in 2017, comprising 945,886 shares and voting rights held directly and 8,805,937 shares and voting rights deemed held Share capital transactions during 2017 were as follows: by “equivalence” (1);  cancellation of 2,414,685 treasury shares purchased under the  BlackRock Inc., a US company acting on behalf of clients and multi-year share buyback program, decided by the Board of managed funds, which disclosed it held 5.10% of the Directors on February 15, 2017; Company’s share capital and voting rights at December 19,  reduction in the number of shares on the concurrent 2017 on behalf of said clients and managed funds in the last completion on December 18, 2017 of a share capital increase legal threshold crossing disclosure received in 2017. under the 4th international share ownership plan (ESOP 2017) As far as the Company is aware, no other shareholder holds involving the issue of 3,600,000 shares and the cancellation of directly or indirectly, alone or in concert, over 5% of the share 4,265,838 treasury shares purchased under the share buyback capital or voting rights. agreement aimed at neutralizing the dilution related to the ESOP 2017 and the multi-year share buyback program. Finally, shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent 0.19% of the Company’s share capital at December 31, Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code 2017. (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders that, based on notifications received, two shareholders held more than 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights 4 at the year-end: (1) Following the repeal of the so-called “trading” exception due to the enactment into French law of the revised Transparency Directive 2013/50/EU by Order no. 2015-1576 of December 3, 2015, service providers must include in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments deemed to have an economic effect similar to the ownership of shares, irrespective of whether they are settled in shares or cash (e.g. forward purchases with physical settlement). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 249 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4.1 Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016 and 2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 Depreciation, in thousands of euros Net Gross amortization Net Assets Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 4,927 40,971 (36,084) 4,887 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 14,474,129 17,625,668 (761,139) 16,864,529 (1) Receivable from controlled entities 1,119,169 592,369 592,369 Other financial fixed assets (1) 126,111 3,338 3,338 Non-current assets 15,724,559 18,262,569 (797,223) 17,465,347 Bought-in goods 4 4 Accounts and notes receivable (1) 71 (71) (1) Other receivables 126,344 119,072 119,072 Receivable from related and associated companies (1) 197,420 140,679 140,679 Marketable securities 1,069,205 861,309 (5) 861,304 Cash and cash equivalents 1,349,284 897,427 897,427 Current assets 2,742,253 2,018,563 (77) 2,018,486 Prepaid expenses (1) 3,598 2,833 2,833 Deferred charges 12,233 8,910 8,910 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 573 22,043 22,043 Other assets 16,404 33,786 33,786 TOTAL ASSETS 18,483,216 20,314,917 (797,300) 19,517,618 (1) of which due within one year 570,052 290,738 290,738 250 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements in thousands of euros 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Share capital (fully paid-up) 1,372,514 1,347,870 Additional paid-in capital 6,295,195 6,011,037 Legal reserve 137,745 137,745 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 2,377,424 3,054,663 Profit for the year 950,196 2,718,722 Tax-driven provisions 15,948 15,948 Shareholders’ equity 11,708,595 13,845,558 Provisions for contingencies and losses 573 22,043 4 Bond issues 3,250,000 3,250,000 (2) Bank loans and borrowings 1,377,376 704,164 Payable to controlled entities (2) 586,598 628,702 (2) Borrowings 5,213,974 4,582,866 Accounts and notes payable (2) 4,218 3,343 (2) Tax and social security liabilities 2,692 4,632 Payable to related and associated companies (2) 1,547,642 890,594 Other payables (2) 1,261 1,570 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 4,261 167,013 Other liabilities 1,560,074 1,067,152 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 18,483,216 19,517,618 (2) of which due within one year 3,230,514 2,532,150 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 251 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 in thousands of euros 2016 2017 Royalties 264,234 299,627 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 2,447 Other income 37,275 93,189 Total operating income 303,956 392,816 Other purchases and external charges 59,404 37,075 Taxes, duties and other levies 10,401 4,606 Depreciation and amortization 8,754 4,604 Charges to provisions 24,991 Other expenses 38,044 91,769 Total operating expenses 141,593 138,055 Operating profit 162,363 254,761 (1) Investment income 68,926 83,370 Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non-current assets (1) 55,278 29,924 (1) Other interest income 70,597 12,439 Reversals of provisions 759,312 2,404,151 Foreign exchange gains 242,603 323,463 Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 402 568 Total financial income 1,197,117 2,853,915 Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 3,490 63,048 Interest and similar expenses (2) 124,184 72,117 Foreign exchange losses 202,461 246,035 Expenses on disposals of marketable securities 388 Total financial expenses 330,135 381,588 Net finance income (expense) 866,982 2,472,327 Recurring profit before tax 1,029,346 2,727,087 Non-recurring income from operations 0 2,224 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 2,761 2,544 Total non-recurring income 2,761 4,767 Non-recurring expenses on operations 69,937 111 Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions 3,539 Total non-recurring expenses 73,476 111 Net non-recurring income (expense) (70,715) 4,656 Income tax expense (8,434) (13,021) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 950,196 2,718,722 (1) of which income concerning related companies 125,627 116,273 (2) of which interest concerning related companies 17,225 7,591 252 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4.3 Notes to the financial statements I Accounting policies objectives of the share buyback program are recorded in listed shares. The annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 are prepared and presented in accordance with Regulations no. 2014-03, no. 2015-06 and no. 2016-07 issued by Marketable securities the French Accounting Standards Authority (Autorité des normes Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the comptables, ANC). They are also prepared in accordance with the lower of cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of principles of prudence and accruals, and assuming that the listed securities is based on the average share price in December. Company is able to continue as a going concern. The realizable value of unlisted securities is based on their net asset value. At the year-end, accrued interest receivable or Change in accounting method interest received in advance on certificates of deposit and commercial paper is recognized in accrued income or prepaid ANC Regulation no. 2015-05 of July 2, 2015 on forward financial income, respectively. instruments and hedging transactions entered into effect on January 1, 2017. It represents a change in accounting method. Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also This text amends ANC Regulation no. 2014-03 on the French included in marketable securities. Chart of Accounts by adding provisions on financial instruments. Centralized foreign currency hedging transactions are now Foreign currency transactions recognized in accordance with hedge accounting rules. Unhedged Receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents transactions are recognized in isolated open positions. Any denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at unrealized losses are provided. In addition the impact of hedging the year-end exchange rate or at the hedging rate. Any 4 on inter-company loans and receivables is spread over the hedge differences resulting from the translation of foreign currency term. receivables and payables at these rates are included in the balance sheet under “Unrealized foreign exchange gains/losses”. Items in the financial statements are generally measured using A provision for foreign exchange losses is set aside to cover any the historical cost method. unrealized losses. The Company’s main accounting policies are described below: Receivables and payables Intangible assets Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted provision for impairment set aside when their net realizable ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use value falls below their net carrying amount. Unbilled payables which has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future are recognized excluding VAT. results, are capitalized and amortized over a maximum period of three years. At the year-end, the value of computer software and Financial instruments user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company. Currency and interest rate positions are taken using financial instruments presenting minimum counterparty risk listed on Financial fixed assets organized markets or over-the-counter. Gains and losses on The gross value of equity interests and other long-term financial instruments used in hedging transactions are investments carried in the balance sheet comprises their recognized to match the gains and losses arising on the hedged acquisition cost, including any transaction fees. A provision for items. Forward financial instruments, and options on own shares, impairment is set aside when the value in use falls below the are initially recognized in the balance sheet at acquisition cost acquisition cost. The value in use is calculated based on either and subsequently remeasured to fair value. Where there is the present value of discounted future cash flows adjusted for indication of impairment, a provision for financial risk is set aside net debt and deferred tax, where applicable, the Company’s in accordance with the principle of prudence. share in net assets, or in certain cases, with reference to the market value of comparable transactions. Tax consolidation The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by the Treasury shares Group have elected to file a consolidated tax return pursuant to Treasury shares held by Capgemini SE as part of the liquidity Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings agreement are recorded on the balance sheet within long-term realized by the Group primarily on account of losses incurred by investments at the lower of cost and net realizable value. consolidated entities are treated as a gain for the Company in Realizable value is the average market price for Capgemini SE the period in which they arise. shares in December. Other treasury shares held for other REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 253 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements II Notes to the Capgemini SE Balance Sheet and Income Statement 1. Non-current assets Gross value Gross value in thousands of euros (January 1) Increase Decrease (December 31) Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 39,729 1,241 40,971 Sub-total 39,729 1,241 40,971 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 Sub-total 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 17,583,656 42,013 17,625,668 Receivable from controlled entities 1,119,169 518,290 (1,045,090) 592,369 Other financial fixed assets 126,111 598,422 (721,195) 3,338 Sub-total 18,828,935 1,158,725 (1,766,285) 18,221,375 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 18,868,889 1,159,966 (1,766,285) 18,262,569 Equity interests  the repayment of loans granted to subsidiaries in the United Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. States (€984,284 thousand), Europe (€21,129 thousand) and The main change during the year reflects a share capital increase the Asia-Pacific region (€13,921 thousand). in the Asia-Pacific region of €38,863 thousand. Other financial fixed assets Receivable from controlled entities This account mainly comprises treasury shares held under the Amounts receivable from controlled entities mainly consist of liquidity agreement. This agreement relates to the share buyback loans granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in North program approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of America (€418,185 thousand), Latin America (€73,387 million), May 10, 2017. Accordingly, a total of 904,664 shares were Europe (€51,918 thousand) and the Asia-Pacific region acquired and 1,025,733 shares were sold between January 1, (€31,209 thousand). 2017 and December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, Capgemini SE held 28,931 treasury shares (150,000 at The main changes in this heading reflect: December 31, 2016), valued at €2,827 thousand.  loans granted to subsidiaries in the United States In 2017, the Company continued to purchase treasury shares in (€424,989 thousand), Europe (€45,241 thousand), Latin the amount of 5,530,159 shares (€541,980 thousand, including America (€26,181 thousand) and the Asia-Pacific region transaction fees). During the year, 1,158,600 shares were (€14,209 thousand); presented to beneficiaries of performance shares and 6,680,523 shares were canceled. 2. Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non-current assets Depreciation, Depreciation, amortization and amortization and provisions provisions in thousands of euros (January 1) Charge Reversal (December 31) Intangible assets Amortization of trademarks, patents and similar rights 34,803 1,281 36,084 Financial fixed assets Provisions for equity interests 3,109,527 41,000 (2,389,388) 761,139 TOTAL DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS 3,144,329 42,281 (2,389,388) 797,223 Provision reversals of €2,389,388 thousand concern US, Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Swiss and French subsidiaries. The €41,000 thousand charge to provisions concerns a French subsidiary holding investments in Latin America. 254 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 3. Marketable securities Marketable securities break down as follows at December 31, 2017: Carrying in thousands of euros Net asset value Nominal value amount Listed securities Investment funds (FCP & SICAV) 641,727 641,721 641,721 Treasury shares 51,903 51,903 51,903 Unlisted securities Term deposits 73,350 73,350 73,350 Other marketable securities Capitalization contracts 94,329 94,329 94,329 TOTAL 861,309 861,303 861,303 Other marketable securities comprise three capitalization fund contracts subscribed in July 2010, August 2010 and November 2014 with leading insurance companies in Europe for €80,000 thousand. The residual balance represents capitalized interest at December 31, 2017. 4 4. Maturity of receivables at year-end More than in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less one year Non-current assets Receivable from controlled entities 592,369 81,407 510,962 Other financial fixed assets 3,338 2,838 500 Current assets Income tax receivable 117,814 63,739 54,075 VAT receivable 1,258 1,258 Receivable from related companies 140,679 140,679 Prepaid expenses 2,833 818 2,015 TOTAL 858,291 290,738 567,552 Prepaid expenses mainly comprise prepaid interest on the 2015 and 2016 bond issues. 5. Deferred charges Amount at Amortization & Amount at in thousands of euros January 1 Increase decrease December 31 Loan issuance fees 12,233 (3,323) 8,910 TOTAL 12,233 (3,323) 8,910 Loan issuance fees include fees on the syndicated credit facility, as well as fees on the three 2015 bond issues and on the 2016 bond issue. They are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the debt. In 2014, Capgemini SE refinanced its multi-currency credit facility with a group of 18 banks for an amount of €750 million. In July 2016, a one-year extension request was accepted by all banks, extending the maturity of this credit facility to July 27, 2021. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 255 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 6. Share capital and additional paid-in capital Additional in thousands of euros Number of shares Share capital paid-in capital At December 31, 2016 (par value of €8) 171,564,265 1,372,514 6,295,195 + Share capital increase for cash reserved for employees 3,600,000 28,800 293,004 Share capital reduction by cancellation of shares (6,680,523) (53,444) (576,229) Share issue costs, net of tax (933) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 (PAR VALUE OF €8) 168,483,742 1,347,870 6,011,037 Share capital increase reserved for employees, share Using the powers delegated to him, the Chairman and Chief issue costs Executive decided concomitantly with the share capital increase, Pursuant to the 17th and 18th resolutions adopted by the to deduct all related share issue costs from additional paid-in Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, the Group set capital. up an employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2017) in the second half of 2017. Nearly 187,300 Group employees in Share capital reduction by cancellation of shares 21 countries, representing approximately 97% of the Group purchased headcount, were invited to subscribe for Capgemini SE shares. During the year, the Board of Directors, using the delegation of Under the plan, a minimum length of service of three months was authority granted for a period of 18 months by the 11th ordinary required at November 19, 2017, acquired consecutively or not resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of since January 1, 2016 to qualify as a candidate for subscription. May 10, 2017, decided to reduce the share capital by This leveraged plan offered employees the possibility of €53,444 thousand by canceling 6,680,523 Capgemini SE shares subscribing at a discounted preferential rate and, via a bank which purchased under the share buyback program authorized by the secured and supplemented the investment so that the total Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 18, 2016 and May 10, amount invested represented ten times the personal contribution 2017. The difference between the purchase cost of these of the employee, potentially generating a greater capital gain 6,680,523 shares and their par value of €576,229 thousand was than would have been the case had it been calculated based deducted from additional paid-in capital. solely on the employee’s personal contribution. In return, the employee waives a portion of any increase in the price of shares 7. Share subscription plans subscribed on his behalf, as well as dividends and other financial The Group no longer grants share subscription options since the rights that could be paid on these shares throughout the entire plan authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was term of the plan. In addition, the shares will be unavailable for a performed in June 2008. period of five years (except for cases of early release covered by plan rules in accordance with applicable legislation). 8. Performance share plans Under the delegation of authority granted by the Board of The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012, May 23, Directors, the subscription price was set at €89.39 by the 2013, May 6, 2015, May 18, 2016 and then May 10, 2017, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on November 15, 2017. authorized the Board of Directors to grant shares to a certain This price corresponds to the daily average Capgemini SE share number of Group employees, on one or several occasions and price, weighted for volumes, over the twenty stock market within a maximum period of 18 months, subject to performance trading days preceding the Chairman and Chief Executive and/or presence conditions. On December 12, 2012, Officer’s decision, less a 12.5% discount. February 20, 2013, July 30, 2014, July 29, 2015, February 17, On December 18, 2017, the Group issued 3,600,000 new shares 2016, July 26, 2016, July 26, 2017 and October 5, 2017, the reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing an Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the increase in shareholders’ equity of €320 million net of issue costs list of beneficiaries of these eight plans. (€1.0 million, net of tax). 256 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements The main features of these plans are set out in the tables below: 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.50% 1.50% Total number of shares granted 1,003,500 (1) 1,209,100 (1) Date of Board of Directors’ decision December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and second At the end of the first and calendar years following the grant second years following the date grant date Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as from the 2 years and 1 week as from the grant date (France) or 4 years and grant date (France) or 4 years ½ month as from the grant date and 1 week as from the grant (other countries) date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 4 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 25.80% 38.70% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% -0.98% 0.59% -1.28% 4 ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 14.35 -28.67 16.18 -32.14 Of which corporate officers 16.18 18.12 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 499,500 663,900 o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 4,800 Number of shares vested during the year 499,500 (2) 659,100 (2) Number of shares at December 31, 2017 0 0 Weighted average number of shares 110,650 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 33.15 36.53 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 257 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,590,639 shares 1,721,759 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ 1% 1% decision Total number of shares granted 1,290,500 (1) 1,068,550 (1) Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 30, 2014 July 29, 2015 Performance assessment dates Three years for the internal performance condition and two years for the external performance Three years for the two condition performance conditions Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date 2 years and 7 months as from (France) or 4 years as from the grant the grant date (France) or date (other countries) 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 3 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 26.33% 24.54% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% -0.81% 0.10% -0.55% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 26.46 -48.26 61.73 -82.18 Of which corporate officers 29.32 56.66 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 776,250 1,042,950 o/w to corporate officers 40,000 (1) Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 78,750 87,352 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (presence only) 697,500 (2) 955,598 (4) Weighted average number of shares 736,875 999,274 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 53.35 87.60 258 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 2016 International Plans Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,721,815 shares 1,721,815 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% Total number of shares granted 180,500 (5) 1,663,500 (1) Date of Board of Directors’ decision February 17, 2016 July 26, 2016 Performance assessment dates Presence condition only Three years for the two performance conditions Vesting period 3 years and 1 week as from the 2 years as from the grant date grant date (France) or 4 years as (France) or 4 years as from the grant from the grant date (other date (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years 2 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility n/a 26.35% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.15% -0.03% 0.2% -0.17% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60% 4 Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 55.45 -57.59 54.02 -77.1 Of which corporate officers 52.68 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 173,900 1,652,600 o/w to corporate officers 42,000 (1) Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 29,850 77,550 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 144,050 (6) 1,575,050 (7) Weighted average number of shares 158,975 1,613,825 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 71.61 83.78 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 259 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 2017 International Plans Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,691,496 shares 1,691,496 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% Total number of shares granted 63,597 (8) 1,522,500 (3) Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 26, 2016 October 5, 2017 Performance assessment dates Presence condition only Three years for the two performance conditions Vesting period 3 years and 1 week as from the grant 3 years as from the grant date date (other countries) (France) or 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date n/a 2 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility n/a 25.65% ■ Risk-free interest rate -0.25% / -0.04% -0.17%/ +0.90% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) 89.05 86.98 -93.25 ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 62.02 -93.25 Of which corporate officers n/a 66.38 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 63,597 1,522,500 o/w to corporate officers 35,000 (1) Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 17,300 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2017 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 63,597 (8) 1,505,200 (9) Weighted average number of shares 26,499 378,463 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 94.20 100.25 (1) Grant subject to performance conditions only. (2) In respect of the “foreign” plan only. (3) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 19,150 shares subject to presence conditions only. (4) Of which 337,316 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 618,282 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan; these amounts include a 4% discount on the external performance condition as the performance of the Capgemini SE share compared with the basket of comparable securities and the CAC 40 index is between 109 and 110% of the average performance of the basket. (5) Grant subject to presence conditions only for beneficiaries employed by IGATE, acquired on July 1, 2015. (6) Of which 7,500 shares in respect of the French plan and 136,550 shares in respect of the foreign plan. (7) Of which 441,350 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,133,700 shares in respect of the foreign plan. (8) Grant subject to presence conditions only for beneficiaries employed by Idean, acquired in February 2017. (9) Of which 456,400 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,048,800 shares in respect of the foreign plan. 260 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements a) Shares vested under the 2012 and 2013 plans  the number of shares ultimately granted: Shares representing 100% of the initial allocation vested to ❚ is equal to 50% of the number of shares initially allocated if beneficiaries not tax resident in France and still present in the the performance of the Capgemini SE share is at least equal Group at the vesting date, following the assessment in 2015 of to 100% of the basket, the performance conditions under the 2012 and 2013 plans. ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if Satisfaction of the presence condition at the vesting date the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is therefore led to the vesting in January 2017 of 499,500 shares higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, under the 2012 plan and the vesting in March 2017 of 659,100 shares under the 2013 plan. ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a pre-defined schedule, where b) Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, the performance of the Capgemini SE share is between 2016 and 2017 plans 100% and 110% of the basket. In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external each security equally weighted: performance condition when granting performance shares, the  2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria / Board of Directors decided as from the 2010 plan to add an CGI Group/ Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant; internal condition to the external condition initially planned.  2014, 2015 and 2016 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / The following internal and external performance conditions CAC 40 index / CGI Group/ Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant. Listing apply: of the CSC security was ceased on April 1, 2017 and it was The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the therefore replaced in the basket by the grant calculation as does the internal performance condition. Stoxx 600 Technology E index; 4  2017 Plan: CSC was replaced by Indra following cessation of External performance condition the security’s listing on April 1, 2017. The rest of the basket The external performance condition is applied in an identical remains unchanged. manner across the 2012 to 2015 plans and in line with the The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions applied to the first two plans, as follows: conditions is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance  no shares are granted if the performance of the Capgemini SE with the Monte Carlo model, together with a discount for share during the period in question is less than 90% of the non-transferability for the shares granted in France. performance of the basket of securities over the same period; Internal performance condition  the number of shares ultimately granted: The internal performance condition is based on the generation ❚ is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if of organic free cash flow (OFCF) over a three-year period the performance of the Capgemini SE share is at least equal encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and to 90% of the basket, 2013 plans, fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan, fiscal ❚ is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if years 2015 to 2017 for the 2015 plan, fiscal years 2016 to 2018 the performance of the Capgemini SE share is equal to for the 2016 plan and fiscal years 2017 to 2019 for the 100% of the basket, 2017 plan. Accordingly: ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if  no shares will be granted in respect of the internal the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is performance condition if the cumulative increase in organic higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, free cash flow over the reference period is less than ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and €750 million for the 2012 and 2013 plans, €850 million for the between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a 2014 plan, €1,750 million for the 2015 plan, €2,400 million for pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the the 2016 plan and €2,900 million for the 2017 plan; Capgemini SE share is between 90% and 100% of the basket  100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if organic in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the free cash flow is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 second case. and 2013 plans, €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan, €2 billion for Under these conditions, if the performance of the Capgemini SE the 2015 plan, €2.7 billion for the 2016 plan and €3.2 billion share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only for the 2017 plan. 60% of the initial allocation will be granted in respect of the The fair value of shares subject to internal performance external performance condition (i.e. 30% of the initial allocation). conditions is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where necessary in line with effective realization of this The terms of the external performance condition were tightened condition. A discount for non-transferability is also applied for for the 2016 and 2017 plans and accordingly: the shares granted in France.  no shares are granted if the performance of the Capgemini SE share during the period in question is less than the performance of the basket of securities over the same period; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 261 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 9. Change in shareholders’ equity Appropiation of Other in thousands of euros 01/01/2017 profit for 2016 movements 12/31/2017 Share capital 1,372,514 (24,644) 1,347,870 Additional paid-in capital 6,295,195 (284,158) 6,011,037 Legal reserve 137,745 137,745 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 2,366,150 688,513 3,054,663 Dividends paid 261,683 (261,683) Profit for the year 950,196 (950,196) 2,718,722 2,718,722 Tax-driven provisions 15,948 15,948 TOTAL 11,697,321 0 2,148,237 13,845,558 The appropriation of the net profit for 2016 led to the  the increase in additional paid-in capital of €293,004 thousand distribution on May 24, 2017 of a dividend of €1.55 on each of pursuant to the aforementioned transaction, net of post-tax the 168,828,050 shares ranking for dividends, for a total of share issue costs of €933 thousand; €261,683 thousand. The amount not paid out on the  the share capital reduction by cancellation of 321,530 shares held by the Company on May 24, 2017 of 6,680,523 Capgemini SE shares purchased under the share €498 thousand was appropriated to retained earnings. buyback program authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Other movements mainly concern: Meeting of May 10, 2017 in the amount of €53,444 thousand;  the share capital increase of €28,800 thousand following the  the decrease in additional paid-in capital of issue of 3.6 million new shares reserved for employees €576,229 thousand pursuant to this cancellation; (ESOP 2017);  2017 net profit for the year of €2,718,722 thousand. 10. Provisions for contingencies and losses Reversal in thousands of euros At January 1 Charge (utilized) At December 31 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ for foreign exchange losses 11,847 22,043 11,847 22,043 TOTAL 11,847 22,043 11,847 22,043 The first-time application of ANC Regulation no. 2015-05 on forward financial instruments and hedging transactions resulted in the recognition at January 1, 2017 of a provision for foreign exchange losses of €11,274 thousand. This provision was reversed and replaced at December 31, 2017 by a provision for €17,781 thousand. 11. Bond issues in thousands of euros December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 2015-2018 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 2015-2020 Bond issue 1,250,000 1,250,000 2015-2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 1,000,000 2016-2021 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 TOTAL 3,250,000 3,250,000 262 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements a) 2016 bond issue 12. Bank loans and borrowings On November 3, 2016, Capgemini SE placed a €500 million bond Bank loans and borrowings total €704,164 thousand and issue comprising 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each comprise (i) the balances on certain euro and foreign currency and with a settlement/delivery date of November 9, 2016. bank accounts used in connection with the Group’s worldwide The bonds mature on November 9, 2021 and pay an annual cash pooling arrangements in the amount of €661,402 thousand, coupon of 0.50% (issue price 99.769%). The bond issue is callable offset in the amount of €674,106 thousand by opposite balances before this date by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions presented in cash and cash equivalents of the Company and (ii) set out in the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the accrued interest on bond issues of €24,459 thousand (iii) liability minimum redemption price. derivatives of €17,781 thousand and (iv) bank overdrafts of €309 thousand. The bond issue is also subject to standard early redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. Syndicated credit facility negotiated by Capgemini SE The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the On July 30, 2014, the Group signed with a syndicate of 18 banks prospectus approved by the AMF on November 7, 2016 under a €750 million multi-currency credit facility, maturing on July 30, reference number no. 16-518. 2019, with two one-year extension options, exercisable (subject to the approval of the banks) at the end of the first and b) July 1, 2015 bond issues second years, respectively, extending the maturity of the new On June 24, 2015, Capgemini SE performed a “triple tranche” facility by a maximum of two additional years. Following the bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with exercise of the second one-year extension option, the maturity a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015: of this credit facility was extended to July 27, 2021.  2015 Bond issue (July 2018): The initial margin on this credit facility was 0.45% (excluding the 4 fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion of The nominal amount of this tranche is €500 million, comprising the facility drawn). This margin may be adjusted upwards or 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds downwards according to the credit rating of Capgemini SE. The mature on July 2, 2018 and pay a floating coupon of facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% 3 month Euribor +85 pb, revised quarterly (issue price 100%); of the margin. The margin currently applicable is 0.45% and the  2015 Bond issue (July 2020): fee on undrawn amounts is 0.1575%. The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,250 million, An upgrade or downgrade in Capgemini SE’s credit rating would comprising 12,500 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The bonds mature on July 1, 2020 and pay an annual coupon Capgemini SE has agreed to comply with the following financial of 1.75% (issue price 99.853%); ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of this credit facility:  2015 Bond issue (July 2023):  the consolidated net debt to consolidated equity ratio must The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,000 million, be less than 1 at all times; comprising 10,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds mature on July 1, 2023 and pay an annual coupon  the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated of 2.50% (issue price 99.857%). net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 The July 2020 and July 2023 tranches are callable by and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in the issue ended). prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting Capgemini SE’s ability to carry out certain operations. These These three bond issues are also subject to standard early covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, The terms and conditions of these three tranches were set out in asset sales, mergers and similar transactions. Capgemini SE also the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 29, 2015 under committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to reference number no. 15-318. maintain pari passu status. At December 31, 2017, this credit facility had not yet been drawn. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 263 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 13. Maturity of payables at the year end More than in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less one year Bond issues ■ 2015-2018 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 ■ 2015-2020 Bond issue 1,250,000 1,250,000 ■ 2015-2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 1,000,000 ■ 2016-2021 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 Sub-total 3,250,000 500,000 2,750,000 Bank loans and borrowings ■ Bank overdrafts 310 310 ■ Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) 661,402 661,402 ■ Accrued interest 24,671 24,671 ■ Cash instruments 17,781 11,872 5,909 Sub-total 704,164 698,255 5,909 Group loans and borrowings ■ Loans 386,111 353,111 33,000 ■ Group investments 242,591 242,591 ■ Other payables 890,594 728,648 161,946 Sub-total 1,519,296 1,324,350 194,946 Accounts and notes payable 3,343 3,343 Tax and social security liabilities 4,632 4,632 Other payables 1,570 1,570 TOTAL 5,483,006 2,532,151 2,950,855 Other Group payables mainly consist of subsidiary current account balances under the Group’s worldwide cash pooling arrangement of €674,106 thousand and subsidiary current accounts for tax consolidation purposes of €208,156 thousand. 14. Accrued income and charges Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Borrowings ■ Accrued interest 24,671 Other liabilities ■ Accounts and notes payable 2,750 ■ Tax and social security liabilities 1,419 TOTAL 28,839 Accrued interest payable mainly comprises interest on bond issues of €24,459 thousand. Accrued income reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Cash and cash equivalents ■ Accrued interest receivable 151 TOTAL 151 264 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 15. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables and on cash instruments Reported in Reported in Provision for foreign in thousands of euros assets liabilities exchange losses On cash instruments 17,781 166,942 17,781 On other receivables/payables 4,261 70 4,261 TOTAL 22,043 167,013 22,043 The application of ANC Regulation no. 2015-05 on forward derivatives and unrealized foreign exchange liabilities total financial instruments and hedging transactions resulted in the €166,942 thousand and liability derivatives and unrealized recognition at December 31, 2017 of the value of asset and foreign exchange assets total €17,781 thousand. Derivatives liability derivative instruments and unrealized foreign exchange assets are recorded in the balance sheet in cash and cash differences on the corresponding cash instruments. Asset equivalents in the amount of €166,942 thousand. 16. Net finance income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Provisions for financial items Charge (63,048) 4 Reversal 2,404,151 Sub-total 2,341,103 Dividends received 83,370 Sub-total 83,370 Other financial income and expense Net income from short-term investments 1,910 Other investment income (capitalization contracts) 1,743 Revenue from loans, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements 34,129 Net foreign exchange gains (losses) 77,428 Interest on borrowings, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements (8,896) Interest on bond issues (52,803) Interest on the cross currency swap (5,367) Net expenses on investment funds (FCP & SICAV) (388) Other 97 Sub-total 47,854 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) 2,472,327 Provision reversals of €2,404,151 thousand mainly comprise reversals of provisions for equity interests in subsidiaries in the amount of €2,392,878 thousand (US for €1,946,000 thousand and European for €430,544 thousand), and a reversal of the provision for financial risks and treasury shares in the amount of €3,490 thousand. The dividends of €83,370 thousand correspond to dividends received during the period by the Company from its subsidiaries. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 265 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 17. Net non-recurring income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Net proceeds on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity agreement 2,544 Default interest received 2,224 Sub-total 4,767 Other (111) Sub-total (111) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) 4,656 18. Income tax expense In France, Capgemini SE is the parent company of a French tax consolidation group comprising 18 companies. In 2017, Capgemini SE recognized a total tax expense of €13,021 thousand, including notably an expense of €31,812 thousand in respect of the tax consolidation. In the absence of tax consolidation, Capgemini SE would have recognized a theoretical income tax expense of €39,260 thousand. Tax losses carried forward by Capgemini SE totaled €525,518 thousand as of December 31, 2017. Breakdown of the income tax expense 2017 in thousands of euros Net profit before tax Income tax expense ■ Recurring profit before tax 2,727,087 (869,293) ■ Net non-recurring income (expense) 4,656 (1,484) ■ Accounting profit for the year before tax 2,731,743 (870,778) ■ Tax differences (2,484,417) 791,939 ■ Offset of tax losses carried forward (124,163) 39,579 ■ Tax consolidation of subsidiaries 26,239 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (13,021) Impact of tax-driven valuations in thousands of euros Amount Profit for the year 2,718,722 Income tax expense (net) 13,021 Profit for the year before tax 2,731,743 Change in tax-driven provisions: ■ Accelerated depreciation Other tax-driven valuations PROFIT EXCLUDING TAX-DRIVEN VALUATIONS (BEFORE TAX) 2,731,743 266 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements Change in deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax on temporary differences (in thousands of euros) Prior year amount Current year amount Non-deductible provisions Organic sales tax 43 70 Provisions for contingencies and losses Provision for foreign exchange losses 573 22,043 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 4,261 167,013 Unrealized foreign exchange losses (573) (22,043) Remeasurement differences on receivables and payables and fair value measurement of derivatives 96,742 (474) TOTAL 101,047 166,608 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 34,790 57,363 Deferred tax assets ■ Tax losses carried forward 649,681 525,518 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% 4 DEFERRED TAX 223,685 180,936 III Other information 19. Off-balance sheet commitments a) Commitments given in favor of subsidiaries Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Capgemini SE to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2017 break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount ■ Financial items 97,001 ■ Operating items 1,356,404 ■ Tax and other items 19,300 TOTAL 1,472,705 Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries Capgemini SE granted a financial guarantee in connection with the in respect of financial items provide them with access to local agreement signed on May 25, 2004 with France Telecom to transfer cash facilities in the form of credit lines. Total draw-downs on the management of part of the latter’s telecommunications these credit lines at December 31, 2017 amounted to network for a term of eight years, renewed on January 1, 2012 for a €21,562 thousand. term of six years. b) Other commitments c) Financial instruments The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees Currency hedges/Derivative instruments for a number of major contracts. The clients concerned At December 31, 2017, the values of external currency derivative represented approximately 8% of Group revenue in 2017. instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency Capgemini SE, together with all of its subsidiaries and any entities denominated internal financing arrangements (loans granted by which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are insured for the Company to its subsidiaries), primarily break down as follows: the financial implications of any civil or professional liability claims  euro/US dollar currency swaps with a net positive value of that may be filed against them as a result of their activities. The €7,151 thousand for a nominal amount of US$508 million insurance is part of a worldwide program comprising a number of (€424 million); policies taken out with leading insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this insurance program (including maximum  a euro/Mexican pesos currency swap with a positive value of coverage) are regularly reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes €376 thousand for a nominal amount of MXN144 million in revenues, business activities and risk profiles. (€6 million); REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 267 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements  a euro/Swedish krona currency swap with a positive value of  a euro/pound sterling currency swap with a negative value of €277 thousand for a nominal amount of SEK350 million €611 thousand for a nominal amount of GBP29 million (€36 million); (€33 million).  a euro/Swiss franc currency swap with a positive value of At December 31, 2017, external currency derivatives hedging €75 thousand for a nominal amount of CHF21 million brand royalties invoiced to subsidiaries had a positive value of (€18 million); €56 thousand and mainly concerned the US Dollar, pound  a euro/Singapore dollar currency swap with a positive value of sterling, Mexican peso and Australian dollar. €62 thousand for a nominal amount of SGD15 million (€9 million); 20. Related companies in thousands of euros Total Related companies Balance sheet items ■ Equity interests 17,625,668 17,625,668 ■ Receivable from controlled entities 592,369 592,369 ■ Payable to controlled entities 628,702 628,702 ■ Related and associated companies receivable 140,679 140,679 payable 890,594 890,594 Income Statement items ■ Investment income 83,370 83,370 ■ Income on Group loans 29,924 29,924 ■ Other interest and similar income 12,439 2,979 ■ Interest and similar expenses 72,117 7,591 21. Consolidating company 23. Remuneration of members of the Board Capgemini SE is the consolidating company for the Capgemini of Directors Group. Attendance fees paid to directors in 2017 totaled €966,250 (or €627,774 after deduction of 30% withholding tax for 22. Subsequent events beneficiaries not tax resident in France and the 21% flat-rate At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors income tax advance payment and 15.5% social security will recommend a dividend payment of €1.70 per share in contributions for beneficiaries tax resident in France). respect of 2017. 24. Audit fees in thousands of euros KPMG PWC Statutory audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements 463 475 Non-audit services (1) 162 320 TOTAL 625 795 (1) These services mainly concern procedures on human ressources, environmental and social information and acquisition due diligence assignments. 268 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4.4 Subsidiaries and investments Other Book value shareof shares holders’ equity (including net income Number Loans & Guafor the % of shares advances rantees 2017 Diviin millions of euros Capital year) interest owned Gross Net granted given Revenue dends Subsidiaries Capgemini North America Inc. 1 2,324 100.00% 982,000 9,132 9,132 417 CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 598 1 100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd 8 100.00% 1,083 23 23 Capgemini Oldco Ltd 12 25 100.00% 1,033,938,858 801 801 Capgemini AB (Suède) 3 277 100.00% 25,861 387 387 8 26 Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 302 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 1,467 19 Capgemini Business services BV 19 (12) 100.00% 42,227 41 41 Capgemini Deutschland Holding 4 GmbH 129 13 95.59% 3 629 629 31 Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 8 100.00% 64,999 60 46 23 Capgemini Suisse AG 15 100.00% 500 73 73 18 72 103 Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o (Pologne) 4 40 100.00% 129,160 25 25 238 13 Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 1 100.00% 1 2 2 8 Capgemini Czech Republic s r o 1 3 99.00% 21,255 8 8 2 8 Capgemini France S.A.S. 89 813 100.00% 5,713,954 1,324 1,324 1 31 Capgemini Technology Services Maroc 3 9 99.99% 329,996 3 3 44 3 Sogeti S.A.S. 261 466 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 15 Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 18 23 100.00% 3,575,000 543 461 10 17 290 Capgemini España S.L. (Sociedad Unipersonal) 42 (12) 85.73% 363,217 319 251 5 247 Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica, SA 8 5 100.00% 1,698,842 44 29 29 Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 1 11 99.80% 12,900,034 1 1 28 Capgemini Argentina S.A. 1 1.16% 126,369 13 Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 181 (29) 100.00% 278,083,711 309 309 28 4 Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd 134 (109) 100.00% 1,575,512 182 182 15 206 Capgemini Technology Services India Limited 8 1,366 11.99% 7,090,662 25 25 1,481 Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 14 100.00% 8,000,000 164 24 15 22 S.C.I. Paris Étoile 5 99.99% 9,999 48 31 3 2 Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 3 3 99.90% 1,004,628 52 52 4 Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 3 (1) 100.00% 210,000 3 3 11 Capgemini Latin America 468 (375) 100.00% 46,824,750 477 53 Capgemini Reinsurance International 20 100.00% 10,000 5 5 8 Other French compagnies nm nm nm nm nm nm nm nm Investments As of December 31, 2017, other investments held by Capgemini SE are not material. na: not applicable. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 269 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This Statutory Auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the Statutory Auditors or verification of the Management Report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31, 2017 To the Annual General Meeting of Capgemini SE, Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Capgemini SE for the year ended December 31, 2017. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for Opinion Audit Framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2017 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. Emphasis of Matter We draw attention to the following matter described in Note Accounting policies – Change in accounting method to the financial statements which describes the change in account method related to the first application of ANC Regulation no. 2015-05 of July 2, 2017 on forward financial instruments and heging transactions. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matter In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matter relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, was of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed this risk. This matter was addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. Measurement of investments in subsidiaries in Capgemini SE Risks identified At December 31, 2017, equity investments reported in the balance sheet amount to €16,865 million. Equity investments are recognized at their acquisition-date cost and may be written down based on their value in use. As stated in the Note Accounting policies – Financial Assets to the financial statements, a depreciation is accounted for should the value in use of the equity investments is lower than its carrying amount. The value in use of equity investments is estimated by Management, either using discounted future cash flows adjusted of net debt and deferred taxes, or using the proportionate share of consolidated net equity, or in some cases, based on the market value of comparable transactions. The measurement of the value in use requires judgment by Management in terms of the inputs chosen, which may correspond to historical or forward-looking information. Management ensures at year end that the carrying amount of the equity investments is not higher than their value in use. An adverse change in the activities related to these investments, due to internal or external factors related to the financial and economic environment in the markets where Capgemini operates, may significantly affect the value in use of the equity investments and require the recognition of an impairment. Such change would require reassessing the relevance of the assumptions used to determine value in use and the reasonableness and consistency of the calculation criteria. We believe that measurement of the value of equity investments is a key audit matter given the significant amount of equity investments reported in the financial statements and their sensitivity to assumptions made by Management. 270 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements Our audit approach Our work included:  gaining an understanding of and assessing the impairment testing process implemented by Management;  when value in use of equity investments is assessed using the discounted cash flow method: ❚ verifying that the model used to calculate value in use is appropriate, ❚ analysing the consistency of cash flow forecasts with the latest estimates by Management presented to the Board of Directors during the budget process, ❚ comparing cash flow forecasts for financial years 2018 to 2020 with the business plans used for prior year impairment testing, ❚ comparing the 2017 earnings forecasts used for prior year impairment testing with actual results, ❚ interviewing financial and operational managers to analyse the main assumptions used in the business plans and cross-check the assumptions with the explanations obtained, ❚ assessing the methods used to calculate the discount rate applied to estimated future cash flows and the latest long-term growth rate used to project cash flows to infinity, for the latest financial year estimates; comparing these rates with market data or external sources and recalculating the rates based on our own data sources, ❚ comparing financial debt with underlying data used to prepare the Company’s consolidated financial statements;  when value in use of equity investments is measured based on the proportionate share of consolidated net equity or based on the market value of comparable transactions: ❚ assessing the appropriateness of the valuation method used, 4 ❚ assessing the documentation used to measure value in use;  assessing the appropriateness of the financial information provided in the Notes to the annual financial statements. Our firms’ valuation specialists were involved in this work. Verification of the Management Report and of the Other Documents Provided to shareholders We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the Management Report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents provided shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from controlling and controlled companies. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the Management Report. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE by the Annual General Meeting held on April 25, 2002 for KPMG Audit and on May 24, 1996 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. As at December 31, 2017, KPMG Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit were in the 16th year and 22nd year of total uninterrupted engagement. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 271 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting principles and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Objectives and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:  identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;  obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control;  evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements;  assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the Statutory Auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein;  evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 26, 2018 Paris La Défense, February 26, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner 272 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements 4.4.6 Statutory Auditors’ special report on related party agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on related party agreements and commitments issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE, we hereby report to you on related party agreements and commitments. It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the information provided to us, on the main terms and conditions of, as well as the reasons provided for, the agreements and commitments that have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, without commenting on their relevance or substance or identifying any undisclosed agreements or commitments. Under the provisions of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether the agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Where applicable, it is also our responsibility to provide shareholders with the information required by Article R.225-31 of the French 4 Commercial Code in relation to the performance during the year of agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying that the information given to us is consistent with the underlying documents. Agreements and commitments to be submitted for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting Agreements and commitments authorised during the year In accordance with Article L.225-40 of the French Commercial Code, we were informed of the following agreements and commitments authorised by the Board of Directors.  Severance pay for Chief Operating Officers Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat Type and purpose of agreement The agreement sets out the severance pay entitlement of Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat in the event of their departure from their position as Chief Operating Officer. Terms and conditions The severance pay will depend on the percentage of fulfilment of the financial performance objectives applicable to the Chief Operating Officer in question for the V1 variable portion of his remuneration calculated for each of the three complete financial years preceding the termination of his duties as Chief Operating Officer, based on a weighting of 40% for the financial year immediately preceding the termination and 30% for each of the remaining two years. Since the V1 part of the variable remuneration is subject to performance criteria, the severance pay will be conditional upon the fulfilment of these same criteria. No severance pay would be paid if the Chief Operating Officer leaves of his own accord, if he changes roles within the Group, if he is able to take retirement at very short notice or if he leaves as a result of serious or gross misconduct. In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors set an upper limit on the aggregate amount that may be paid out to the Chief Operating Officer with respect to (i) the final calculated amount of severance pay, (ii) the compensation paid under the collective bargaining agreement in the event of termination of the employment contract, and (iii) any compensation that may be paid under a non-competition agreement. This amount is limited to twice the theoretical annual compensation (fixed plus variable) applicable on the date of termination of service. Reasons justifying the interest of the agreement for the Company The appointment of two Chief Operating Officers is part of the transition within the management of Capgemini. On December 6, 2017, the Board of Directors decided that it was in the Company’s interest to protect both the newly appointed Chief Operating Officers through a severance pay scheme and the Group through a non-competition agreement during this transition period. Conditions precedent Pursuant to Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, these appointments are to be submitted for approval to the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2018, subject to two conditions precedent, namely (i) the adoption of the compensation policy for the Chief Operating Officers by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018, and (ii) the re-appointment of Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat as Chief Operating Officers by the Board of Directors at the meeting to be held following the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018.  Non-competition obligations concerning Chief Operating Officers Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat Type of agreement The agreement provides for a non-competition obligation applicable to Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat, in exchange for which they may be entitled to a compensation payment. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 273 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2017 financial statements Terms and conditions Subject to compliance with the non-competition obligation for a period of 12 months as from the date of termination of their employment contract further to the termination of their corporate office, the two Chief Operating Officers may be entitled to a compensation payment equal to half of their maximum theoretical gross compensation (fixed plus variable) applicable on the date of termination of their corporate office. The Board of Directors reserves the right to decide to release the Chief Operating Officers from the non-competition obligation and thus to waive payment of the non-competition compensation payment. In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors set an upper limit on the aggregate amount that may be paid out to the Chief Operating Officer with respect to (i) the final calculated amount of severance pay, (ii) the compensation paid under the collective bargaining agreement in the event of termination of the employment contract, and (iii) any compensation that may be paid under a non-competition agreement. This amount is limited to twice the theoretical annual compensation (fixed plus variable) applicable on the date of termination of service. Reasons justifying the interest of the agreement for the Company The appointment of two Chief Operating Officers is part of the transition within the management of Capgemini. On December 6, 2017, the Board of Directors decided that it was in the Company’s interest to protect both the newly appointed Chief Operating Officers through a severance pay scheme and the Group through a non-competition agreement during this transition period. Conditions precedent Pursuant to Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, these appointments are to be submitted for approval to the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2018, subject to two conditions precedent, namely (i) the adoption of the compensation policy for the Chief Operating Officers by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018, and (ii) the re-appointment of Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat as Chief Operating Officers by the Board of Directors at the meeting to be held following the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018. Agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting Agreements and commitments approved in previous years which remained in force during the year In accordance with Article R.225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we were informed that the following agreements and commitments, approved by the General Meeting in previous years, remained in force during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Supplementary collective pension plan of Paul Hermelin, Chief Executive Officer Type of agreement A supplementary collective defined benefit pension plan was set up by the Company for certain senior executives regarded as having made a significant and lasting contribution to the development of the Capgemini Group. Paul Hermelin was listed as a beneficiary of this plan by decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2007. Purpose and terms and conditions On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors authorised the establishment of a supplementary collective defined benefit pension plan for certain senior executives, enabling them to receive, at retirement, a maximum supplementary pension of 40% of their benchmark remuneration. The total pension collected by the beneficiary may not exceed 50% of this benchmark remuneration, which is itself limited to 60 times the maximum annual salary limit defined by French Social Security. On July 29, 2015, the Board of Directors decided to freeze Paul Hermelin’s rights under this supplementary pension plan with effect from October 31, 2015, without consideration, thus leading to a change in the rules in the Company’s favour. On December 6, 2017, the Board of Directors noted that the agreement had been submitted for review. Paul Hermelin received no compensation under this agreement in 2017. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris La Défense, February 26, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Department of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner 274 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.5 Other Financial and accounting information 4.5 Other Financial and accounting information 4.5.1 Five-Year Financial Summary (in thousand of euros) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 I-SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital 1 282 543 1 308 744 1 377 452 1 372 514 1 347 870 Number of common shares outstanding 160 317 818 163 592 949 172 181 500 171 564 265 168 483 742 Maximum number of future shares to be created : ■ through exercise of equity warrants 5 910 064 6 412 285 3 980 902 4 809 100 4 940 995 ■ through conversion fo convertible bonds 5 961 483 5 958 587 5 958 587 II-OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE CURRENT YEAR Operating revenue 241 145 248 316 311 679 303 956 392 816 Operating revenue and financial revenue 700 839 1 480 875 2 165 823 1 501 074 3 246 731 Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 38 404 284 241 224 791 236 553 395 244 4 Income tax (11 344) 33 555 29 532 8 434 13 021 Net income / (losses) 164 839 1 161 201 1 156 947 950 196 2 718 722 Distributed income 176 350 196 312 232 445 265 925 286 422 (*) III-EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Earnings after taxes, but before amortization and provisions 0,31 1,53 1,13 1,33 2,27 Net earnings 1,03 7,10 6,72 5,54 16,14 Dividend per share 1,03 1,20 1,35 1,55 1,70 IV-EMPLOYEE DATA Average number of employee during the year Total payroll Capgemini SE does not have any employees Total benefits (*) Subject to approval by the Combined shareholders' Meeting of May 23, 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 275 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 276 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 5 Capgemini and its shareholders 5.1 Capgemini share capital 278 5.3 Current share ownership 286 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements Shareholders holding more than 5% of the share and delegations of authority) 278 capital and voting rights at December 31, 2017 287 5.1.2 Financial authorizations 279 Threshold crossing disclosures received in 2017 287 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding 281 Shareholders’ agreements 287 5.1.4 Employee shareholders 281 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise 5.4 Share buyback program 288 of all securities granting 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares 288 access to the Company’s share capital 282 5.4.2 Description of the share buy-back program to be authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting 5.2 Capgemini and the stock market 283 on May 23, 2018 288 Capgemini share ownership structure at the end of December 2017 283 2018 provisional financial calendar 283 Dividend payment policy 285 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 277 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Capgemini share capital 5.1 Capgemini share capital 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements and delegations of authority) Amount of capital At December 31, 2017, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,347,869,936, divided into 168,483,742 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion. Changes in the Company’s share capital over the past five years Additional paid-in Number of Share capital capital shares (in euros) (in euros) AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 160,317,818 1,282,542,544 5,772,277,199 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 5,000,000 40,000,000 190,000,000 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (864,294) ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 530,539 4,244,312 (4,244,312) Allocation to legal reserve (1,458,070) Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,255,408) (18,043,264) (103,919,200) AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 163,592,949 1,308,743,592 5,851,791,323 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued by private placement 6,700,000 53,600,000 452,250,000 ■ Shares issued after the vesting of free shares 6 48 0 ■ Shares issued following the exercise of BSAAR warrants 1,888,545 15,108,360 49,102,170 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (5,922,837) Allocation to legal reserve (6,833,742) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 172,181,500 1,377,452,000 6,340,386,914 Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (617,235) (4,937,880) (45,191,920) AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 171,564,265 1,372,514,120 6,295,194,994 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 3,600,000 28,800,000 293,004,000 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (933,063) Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (6,680,523) (53,444,184) (576,228,867) AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 168,483,742 1,347,869,936 6,011,037,063 278 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Capgemini share capital 5.1.2 Financial authorizations Authorizations granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors to increase share capital The following table summarizes (pursuant, to Article L.225-37-4 3° of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and those that have expired since the last Shareholders’ Meeting. Authorization Maximum date and amount (1) (2) resolution Purpose of the authorization (in euros) number Expiry date Used during 2017 a) Purchase by the Company of its own 10% of share 05/10/2017 11/10/2018 5,530,159 shares were purchased shares under a share buyback capital (11th ) under the share buyback program program(3) (excluding the liquidity contract) at an average price of €97.69 As part of the liquidity contract: a) 904,664 shares purchased at an average market price of €91.96 b) 1,025,733 shares sold at an average market price of €91.70 c) The balance on 12/31/2017 is 28,931 shares and about €20 million b) Cancellation of treasury shares 10% of share 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 6,680,523 shares with a value of capital per (11th ) €629,673,051 were cancelled by 12-month period decisions of the Board of Directors on 02/15/2017 and on 12/06/2017 5 c) Share capital increase by capitalizing €1.5 billion 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization additional paid-in capital, reserves, (par value) (12th ) was not used in 2017 profit or other eligible amounts d) Share capital increase by issuing €550 million 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization shares and/or securities granting (par value) (13th ) was not used in 2017 access to the share capital, or granting €7.5 billion a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with retention of PSR (pre-emptive subscription rights) e) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization shares and/or securities granting (par value) (14th ) was not used in 2017 access to the share capital, or granting €2.5 billion a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with cancellation of PSR, by public offering f) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization shares and/or securities granting (par value) (15th ) was not used in 2017 access to the share capital, or granting €2.5 billion a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with cancellation of PSR, by private placement g) Setting the issue price of shares in €137 million 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization the context of a share capital increase (par value) (16th) was not used in 2017 with cancellation of PSR €2.5 billion (issue amount) 10% of share capital h) Increase of the number of shares to Within the limit of 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization be issued in case of a capital increase the ceiling (17th) was not used in 2017 in the context of resolutions (d) to (f) applicable to the (Greenshoe) with and without PSR initial increase REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 279 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Capgemini share capital Maximum Authorization date amount (1) (2) and resolution Purpose of the authorization (in euros) number Expiry date Used during 2017 i) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million (par 05/18/2016 07/18/2018 This authorization shares and/or securities granting value) (18th) was not used in 2017 access to the share capital in €2.5 billion (issue consideration for contributions amount) in kind 10% of share capital j) Share capital increase by issuing €48 million (par 05/10/2017 11/10/2018 3,446,537 shares were issued pursuant shares and/or securities granting value) (2) (17th) to this 17th resolution within the access to the share capital with context of the 2017 employee savings cancellation of PSR, reserved for plan, representing a par value amount members of Group savings plans of €27,572,296 k) Share capital increase by issuing €24 million (par 05/10/2017 11/10/2018 153,463 shares were issued pursuant shares and/or securities granting value) (2) (18th) to this 18th resolution within the access to the share capital with context of the 2017 employee savings cancellation of PSR, reserved for plan, representing a par value amount employees of certain non-French of €1,227,704 subsidiaries l) Grant of performance shares 1% of share 05/10/2017 11/10/2018 1,586,097 performance shares capital (16th) (€12,688,776 million par value) were granted to 1,332 beneficiaries by decisions of the Board of Directors on 07/26/2017 and on 10/05/2017 (1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €550 million and a maximum issue amount of €7.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to j) and k) are aggregated at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. (3) Shares purchased in the course of 2017 but prior to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 were acquired pursuant to the 10th resolution of the Shareholder's Meeting of May 18, 2016. Use of authorizations during 2017 October 5, 2017 to award 1,522,500 performance shares to 1,297 beneficiaries (managers and corporate officers of French Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Ordinary and foreign subsidiaries, members of the Executive Committee Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 in the including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer). eleventh resolution, 5,530,159 shares have been purchased under the share buyback program (excluding the liquidity Finally, the Board of Directors by decision on July 26, 2017, made contract) at an average price of €97.69. As part of the liquidity use of the seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions adopted by contract 904,664 shares were purchased at an average price of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, to €91.96 and 1,025,733 shares were sold at an average market increase the capital of the Company in favor of employees by price of €91.70. The balance of the liquidity contract on issuing 3,600,000 new shares within the fourth employee savings December 31, 2017 is 28,931 shares and about €20 million. plan. The increase of capital, representing a par value amount of €28,800,000, was completed on December 18, 2017. In addition, pursuant to the powers conferred on it by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the eleventh resolution, the Board of Directors in its meeting of Renewal of the authorizations to increase share February 15, 2017 cancelled 2,414,685 shares with a value of capital at the 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting €195,291,999.69, and in its meeting of December 6, 2017 The outstanding authorizations described above will all be cancelled 4,265,838 shares with a value of €434,051,051.63. submitted for renewal at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary 2018. Shareholders’ General Meeting of May 10, 2017, in its sixteenth For further details, please refer to chapter 6 of this Registration resolution, the Board of Directors decided on July 26, 2017, to Document. award 63,597 restricted shares to 35 beneficiaries, and on 280 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Capgemini share capital 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding There are no other securities granting access to the share capital outstanding at December 31, 2017. 5.1.4 Employee shareholders Share subscription or purchase plans  a number of shares equal to half the number indicated in the grant notification multiplied by the percentage achievement Capgemini no longer grants stock options. The last stock option of the chosen external performance target: performance of plan expired in June 2013. the Capgemini share compared with the average performance measured over an identical three year period of a basket of Performance shares grant securities and indexes containing (i) shares of eight listed Performance shares grant in 2017 companies operating in the same sector as the Group in a The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly authorized the Board of Directors in its sixteenth resolution to established (Accenture/Indra/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI grant performance shares to employees and corporate officers Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and (ii) the CAC 40 index. No of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, shares vest in respect of the external performance condition if during a period of 18 months commencing May 10, 2017. The the relative performance of the Capgemini share is less than number of shares granted (existing and to be issued) was not to 100% of the average performance of the basket. exceed 1% of the share capital at the date of the Board of The vesting period was set by the Board of Directors at three Directors’ decision to grant such shares (this maximum number years for beneficiaries tax-resident in France and four years for of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a beneficiaries non-tax-resident in France. In addition, a two years maximum of 10% of “N”, these performance shares may be minimum holding period for vested shares following the vesting granted to the executive corporate officers of the Company, it period was set for beneficiaries tax-resident in France. being specified that the portion of shares that must be held by Furthermore, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is them until the end of their term of office is set by the Board of required to hold the shares vested until the end of his term of Directors. By exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares may be granted to employees of the Company and office in the amount of 50% of shares vested if the number of shares held by him at the grant date, valued at the grant price, is 5 its French and non-French subsidiaries, excluding members of equal to less than two years’ theoretical salary, and in the the General Management Team (the “Executive Committee”), amount of 33% otherwise. without performance conditions. Out of the total amount of 1,522,500 shares, a total of Pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors’ Meeting 19,150 shares (1.26% of the total grant) have been granted of October 6, 2017 decided the issue of 1,522,500 performance without performance conditions and no members of the Group shares to 1,276 managers and employees of the Group, Executive Committee benefited from such grant. 20 members of the Executive Committee (excluding Mr. Paul In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Hermelin) and Mr. Paul Hermelin. Code, performance share grants will be undertaken at the same Since the performance share grant of 2012, the internal calendar periods from now on and will be decided by either the performance condition of all performance share plans is based Board of Directors’ Meeting held at the end of July or at the on organic free cash flow over a three-year period, reflecting the following meeting generally held at the beginning of October. Board of Directors’ desire to prioritize long-term goals in the context of these grants. Share grants without performance conditions in 2017 The external performance condition is based on the comparative Pursuant to this sixteenth resolution authorized by the performance of the Capgemini share against average Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, the Board performance of a basket of companies or comparable indexes of Directors’ Meeting of July 26, 2017 decided the issue of over a minimum of three years (in line with the duration covered 63,597 restricted shares to 35 managers and employees of the by the internal performance condition). company Idean bought in February 2017. This grant was made as part of retention agreement defined in the Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, the total number of shares that will vest to Overall, the authorization to grant a maximum of 15% of shares beneficiaries at the end of the vesting period will be equal to: without performance conditions has only been used at 35% up  a number of shares equal to half the number indicated in the to 5.21%. Neither the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nor grant notification multiplied by the percentage achievement the Group Executive Committee members were beneficiaries of of the chosen internal performance target: published and this grant. audited organic free cash flow for the three years from 2017 to 2019 compared with a minimum objective of €2,900 million; the maximum number of shares will vest for organic free cash flow generation of more than €3,200 million; and REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 281 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Capgemini share capital Vesting of performance shares in 2017 tax-resident in France of 499,500 shares in January 2017 and of Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary 659,100 shares in March 2017. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the Board of Directors The final percentage of shares that has vested out of the initial granted on December 12, 2012, 1,003,500 shares subject to grant of 1,003,500 shares is 87,9% (882,500 shares) and out of performance and presence conditions on January 1, 2017 and the initial grant of 1,209,100 shares this percentage is 83,9% granted on February 20, 2013, 1,209,100 shares subject to (1,014,700 shares) performance and presence conditions on March 1, 2017. The performance shares were granted on December 12, 2012, International employee shareholding system subject to a vesting period of two years and half a month for The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 26, 2011, May 7, beneficiaries tax-resident in France and four years and half a 2014 and May 10, 2017 authorized the Board of Directors to month for beneficiaries not tax resident in France. The grant issue a maximum of 6 million shares by way of a share capital therefore vested for non French tax residents on January 1, increase reserved for employees and corporate officers of the 2017. The performance shares were granted on February 20, Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries who are 2013, subject to a vesting period of two years and one week for members of the Capgemini Group Company Savings Plan. beneficiaries tax-resident in France and four years and one week for beneficiaries not tax resident in France. The grant therefore The international employee shareholding transaction performed vested for non French tax residents on March 1, 2017. in 2012 was subscribed in the amount of 6 million shares directly and indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by These two performance shares grants were subject to internal Group employees from 19 countries. It is recalled that and external performance conditions. These conditions were subscribers to the second employee share ownership plan detailed in the resolution presented to the Combined “ESOP 2012”, which expired on September 27, 2017, had the Shareholders’ Meeting which authorized accordingly the Board option of recovering their investment (and in numerous cases of Directors to grant performance shares. reinvesting in the 2017 plan), staying invested in Capgemini The internal performance condition for this share grant shares or leaving their investment in the Group Savings Plan concerned organic free cash flow generated over the three-year (France only). period, 2012, 2013 and 2014. The international employee shareholding transaction performed The external performance condition was assessed based on the in 2014 was fully subscribed in the amount of 5 million shares, performance of the Capgemini share compared with a basket of authorized by the Board of Directors, directly and indirectly via comparable companies in our business sector in at least an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by Group employees five different countries. These companies were as follows in both from 20 countries. plans: Accenture, Atos, CSC, CGI Group, Cognizant, Infosys, Sopra, The international employee shareholding transaction performed Tieto and Steria. For these grants, no shares vest in respect of in 2017 was fully subscribed in the amount of 3.6 million shares, the external performance condition if the relative performance authorized by the Board of Directors, directly and indirectly via of the Capgemini share is less than 90% of the average an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by Group employees performance of the basket over a two-year period, while 30% of from 21 countries. shares vest if this performance is equal to that of the basket and 50% of shares vest if this performance is 110% or more of that of Overall and pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102 of the the basket. French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors informs you that employees and corporate officers of the Company (and The internal and external performance conditions for these plans related companies) together held 5.3% of the Company’s share were satisfied in full, enabling the vesting to beneficiaries non capital at December 31, 2017. 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise of all securities granting access to the Company’s share capital As of December 31, 2017, the potential dilution in respect of performance and free share grants plans was 2.8%. 282 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.2 Capgemini and the stock market 5.2 Capgemini and the stock market At December 31, 2017, Capgemini SE’s share capital comprised and the Dow Jones STOXX and Dow Jones Euro STOXX 168,483,742 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). Capgemini SE European indexes. Between January 1 and December 31, 2017, shares are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market Capgemini recorded a 23.38% increase in its share price, to end (compartment A) and are eligible for the SRD deferred the year at €98.89. Capgemini has a stock market capitalization settlement system of the Paris Stock Exchange. Capgemini of €16.7 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with shares are included in the CAC 40 and the Euronext 100 indexes €13.8 billion at December 31, 2016. Capgemini share ownership structure at the end of December 2017 0.4% Treasury shares 11.2% Individual 63.2% shareholders 83.6% International Institutional 4.8% shareholders Board members 20.4% and French Group employees 5 2018 provisional financial calendar This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes 2018 first-quarter revenues: April 26, 2018 only and may subsequently be amended. 2018 first-half results: July 26, 2018 2018 third-quarter revenues: October 24, 2018 2018 annual results: February 14, 2019 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 283 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.2 Capgemini and the stock market Share performance – from December 31, 2015 to February 28, 2018 (in euros) 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 31/12/15 31/03/16 30/06/16 30/09/16 31/12/16 31/03/17 30/06/17 30/09/17 31/12/17 CAPGEMINI: +20.3% CAC 40: +14.7% STOXX Europe 600: +3.8% Monthly trading volumes on NYSE EURONEXT PARIS – from January 2016 to February 2018 (in million of shares) 25 20 15 10 5 0 16 6 -1 -1 6 16 17 7 -1 -1 7 17 18 yril ly ryril ly ryar ap ju be ar ap ju be ar nu to nu to nu ja oc ja oc ja 284 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.2 Capgemini and the stock market Share price and trading volumes The following table represents trading in the Company’s shares on NYSE Euronext Paris over the past 24 months: Trading volume Share price (in euros) Number of shares Number of Average Value Month trading Days High Average Low Total (Daily) (in millions of euros) March 2016 21 84.70 78.98 74.85 15,139,358 720,922 1,195.7 April 2016 21 83.63 80.84 77.96 12,768,662 608,032 1,032.2 May 2016 22 86.06 82.16 78.68 10,500,146 477,279 862.7 June 2016 22 89.01 82.83 73.45 17,625,297 801,150 1,459.9 July 2016 21 86.73 79.65 72.38 13,842,367 659,160 1,102.5 August 2016 23 89.40 85.78 82.95 8,218,761 357,337 705.0 September 2016 22 89.52 87.09 84.19 10,081,839 458,265 878.1 October 16 21 89.80 81.45 75.00 19,325,817 920,277 1,574.2 November 2016 22 77.56 74.40 71.10 19,053,091 866,050 1,417.5 December 2016 21 80.81 76.87 71.45 14,368,098 684,195 1,104.4 January 2017 22 81.74 78.26 74.05 13,574,487 617,022 1,062.3 February 2017 20 83.38 79.43 75.71 12,080,322 604,016 959.6 March 2017 23 86.76 83.75 80.21 12,457,476 541,629 1,043.3 April 2017 18 93.79 88.79 84.84 12,910,025 717,224 1,146.3 May 2017 22 97.33 93.90 91.16 12,551,655 570,530 1,178.6 June 2017 22 95.09 92.29 89.32 12,369,298 562,241 1,141.5 July 2017 21 97.49 92.55 89.14 10,341,860 492,470 957.1 5 August 2017 23 94.23 91.85 88.13 10,131,716 440,509 930.6 September 2017 21 102.30 98.02 91.79 11,891,868 566,279 1,165.7 October 2017 22 105.10 100.94 99.07 10,225,714 464,805 1,032.2 November 2017 22 105.80 100.91 96.60 11,481,053 521,866 1,158.6 December 2017 19 99.63 97.71 94.95 10,379,774 546,304 1,014.2 January 2018 22 108.80 105.15 97.72 10,252,502 466,023 1,078.0 February 2018 20 108.85 102.34 97.38 12,369,694 618,485 1,265.9 Source: Euronext. Dividend payment policy The Group has a historic dividend distribution policy that ensures a A dividend payment of €1.70 per share is proposed for fiscal balance between the investments required for its development year 2017, up 10% compared to the dividend for fiscal year 2016. and the distribution of profits to shareholders. The payout ratio is Based on 168,483,742 shares outstanding at December 31, 2017, approximately 35%. This ratio is defined as: dividend per share/net the total Capgemini dividend distribution in respect of fiscal profit (Group share) per share, based on the number of shares year 2017 would be €286 million. The effective dividend outstanding at December 31. In case exceptional items have been distribution will depend on the number of treasury shares held at recognized, in particular non-cash items, net profit (Group share) the ex-dividend date and any shares issued or cancelled prior to may be restated for these items before applying the payout ratio. this date. Dividends payout Dividend distribution in millions Number of shares Dividend per Ex-dividend Year ended December 31 of euros % of net profit (at December 31) share (in euro) date 2012 162 44% 161,700,362 1.00 June 3, 2013 2013 176 40% 160,317,818 1.10 May 16, 2014 2014 196 34% 163,592,949 1.20 May 18, 2015 2015 232 36% 172,181,500 1.35 May 30, 2016 2016 266 36% 171,564,265 1.55 May 22, 2017 * 2017 286 35% 168,483,742 1.70 June 4, 2018 (*) Recommended dividend submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 285 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.3 Current share ownership 5.3 Current share ownership At December 31, 2017, the share capital amounted to  reduction in the number of shares on the concurrent €1,347,869,936 (compared with €1,372,514,120 at completion on December 18, 2017 of a share capital increase December 31, 2016), divided into 168,483,742 fully paid-up under the 4th international share ownership plan (ESOP 2017) shares with a par value of €8 each. involving the issue of 3,600,000 shares and the cancellation of 4,265,838 treasury shares bought back under the share Share capital transactions during 2017 were as follows: buyback agreement aimed at neutralizing the dilution related  cancellation of 2,414,685 treasury shares decided by the to the ESOP 2017 and the multi-year share buyback program. Board of Directors on February 15, 2017; The following table presents the ownership structure at December 31, 2017. No share carry double voting rights. Breakdown of share ownership in the past three years At December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2017 Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting shares capital rights shares capital rights shares capital rights Board members and Group employees 13,490,294 7.8 7.8 9,356,859 5.5 5.5 8,032,616 4.8 4.8 Serge Kampf (1) 3,670,000 2.1 2.1 Paul Hermelin 247,048 0.1 0.1 297,048 0.2 0.2 282,048 0.2 0.2 Employee shareholders 9,573,246 5.6 5.6 9,059,811 5.3 5.3 7,750,568 4.6 4.6 Treasury shares 906,107 0.5 0.5 3,029,357 1.8 1.8 599,324 0.4 0.4 Own shares Public 157,785,099 91.7 91.7 159,178,049 92.8 92.8 159,851,802 94.8 94.8 Individual shareholders (2) (bearer + registered) 9,799,109 5.7 5.7 15,367,915 8.9 8.9 18,835,216 11.2 11.2 Institutional shareholders 147,985,990 85.9 85.9 143,810,134 83.8 83.8 141,016,586 83.6 83.6 TOTAL 172,181,500 100 100 171,564,265 100 100 168,483,742 100 100 1) Serge Kampf passed away on March 15, 2016 and his stake is no longer recognized as held by a corporate officer from this date. 2) May include shares held by employees outside the employee share ownership plan. Each share carries entitlement to one vote irrespective of whether the share is held in registered or bearer form. It is also stated that at December 31, 2017, Capgemini SE held 599,324 treasury shares (including 28,931 shares resulting from execution of the liquidity contract as at December 31, 2017) and, in addition, that the Company does not hold any “own shares”. Based on a study of identifiable bearer shares carried out at December 15, 2017, the Company has 38,988 identifiable holders of bearer shares holding more than 50 shares. In addition, 17,615 shareholders held shares in registered form at December 31, 2017. Finally, shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent 0.19% of the Company’s share capital at December 31, 2017. 286 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.3 Current share ownership Shareholders holding more than 5%  on February 16, 2017, it disclosed it had reduced its interest below the 5% threshold and held 4.77% of Capgemini SE’s of the share capital and voting rights share capital and voting rights following the sale of shares and at December 31, 2017 a decrease in the number of shares held as collateral;  on December 28, 2017, it disclosed it had increased its Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code interest above the 5% threshold and held 5.10% of (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders Capgemini SE’s share capital and voting rights following the that, based on notifications received, two shareholders held purchase of shares and an increase in the number of shares more than 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights held as collateral. at the year-end: Société Générale disclosed the following threshold crossings:  Société Générale, which disclosed it held 5.79% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights at December 19,  on September 27, 2017, it disclosed it had reduced its interest 2017 in the last legal threshold crossing disclosure received below the 5% threshold and held 3.27% of Capgemini SE’s in 2017, comprising 945,886 shares and voting rights held share capital and voting rights following a decrease in the directly and 8,805,937 shares and voting rights deemed held number of financial contracts with physical settlement by “equivalence”; involving the Company’s shares held by Société Générale;  BlackRock Inc., a US company acting on behalf of clients and  on December 19, 2017, it disclosed it had increased its managed funds, which disclosed it held 5.10% of the interest above the 5% threshold and held 5.79% of Company’s share capital and voting rights at December 28, Capgemini SE’s share capital and voting rights following an 2017 on behalf of said clients and managed funds in the last increase in the number of financial contracts with physical legal threshold crossing disclosure received in 2017; settlement involving the Company’s shares held by Société Générale. As far as the Company is aware, no other shareholder holds directly or indirectly, alone or in concert, over 5% of the share Finally, the Company received the following notifications in capital or voting rights. accordance with the provisions of the bylaws:  Société Générale reported various threshold crossings pursuant to the bylaws in 2017, the ultimate disclosure on Threshold crossing disclosures received May 30, 2017 being it had reduced its interest below the threshold of 6% of Capgemini SE’s share capital and voting 5 in 2017 rights; In 2017, the Company was notified that the following legal  DNCA Investments disclosed it had reduced its interest below thresholds had been crossed: the threshold of 2% of Capgemini SE’s share capital and voting rights on January 3, 2017; The US company, BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of clients and managed funds, disclosed the following threshold crossings:  GIC Private Ltd disclosed it had increased its interest above the threshold of 3% of Capgemini SE’s share capital and  on January 3, 2017, it disclosed it had raised its interest above voting rights on January 16, 2017; the 5% threshold and held 5.004% of Capgemini SE’s share  Lyxor Asset Management disclosed it had increased its capital and voting rights following an increase in the number interest above the threshold of 1% of Capgemini SE’s share of shares held as collateral; capital and voting rights on March 24, 2017.  on January 5, 2017, it disclosed it had reduced its interest It is recalled that Article 10 of Capgemini SE’s bylaws was below the 5% threshold and held 4.92% of Capgemini SE’s amended by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, share capital and voting rights following the sale of shares and 2017 and that a shareholder is now required to disclose the a decrease in the number of shares held as collateral; crossing, through an increase or a decrease, of each threshold of  on January 6, 2017, it disclosed it had increased its interest 1% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights, from the above the 5% threshold and held 5.07% of Capgemini SE’s lower threshold of 5% to the threshold triggering a mandatory share capital and voting rights following the purchase of public offer in accordance with prevailing regulations. The shares and an increase in the number of shares held as obligation to disclose the crossing of thresholds below 5% was collateral; removed. Interests of between 1% and 5% (exclusive) of the  on January 10, 2017, it disclosed it had reduced its interest share capital or voting rights may now be acquired without any below the 5% threshold and held 4.86% of Capgemini SE’s disclosure obligations. share capital and voting rights following the sale of shares and a decrease in the number of shares held as collateral;  on January 11, 2017, it disclosed it had raised its interest Shareholders’ agreements above the 5% threshold and held 5.15% of Capgemini SE’s share capital and voting rights following an increase in the There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force. number of shares held as collateral; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 287 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 renewed In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares the authorization granted to the Company to buy back its shares. in 2017. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held This authorization was used in 2017 in connection with the 570,393 of its own shares at December 31, 2017, following the liquidity contract (entered into with Kepler Cheuvreux) and more various transactions described below: generally as part of the continued purchase by the Company of  purchase of 5,530,159 shares representing 3.28% of the share its own shares. capital as at December 31, 2017, at an average price of €97.69 The liquidity contract seeks to improve the liquidity of the per share; Capgemini SE share and to allow regular quotations. In 2017, a  transfer of 1,158,600 shares to employees under the free total of 904,664 shares were purchased on behalf of share grant plan; Capgemini SE, at an average price of €91.96 per share, representing 0.54% of the share capital at December 31, 2017.  cancellation of 6,680,523 shares. During the same period, 1,025,733 Capgemini SE shares were Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax sold at an average price of €91.70 per share, representing 0.61% totaled €1,724,799 in 2017. of the share capital at December 31, 2017. At year-end, the At December 31, 2017, excluding the liquidity contract, all of liquidity account balance comprised 28,931 treasury shares the 570,393 treasury shares representing 0.34% of the (0.02% of the share capital) and approximately €20 million. Company’s share capital were allocated to the objective of grant or sale to employees and/or corporate officers. Lastly, no treasury shares were reallocated between the various objectives in 2017. 5.4.2 Description of the share buy-back program to be authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2018 Pursuant to articles 241-1 et seq. of the Autorité des marchés Breakdown by objective of held shares financiers (AMF – the French Financial Market Authority) general The 632,893 own shares held as at March 1, 2018 are allocated as regulations, the purpose of this program description is to follows: describe the objectives and the terms of the share buy-back program subject to the authorization of the Shareholders’  62,500 shares to the objective of managing the secondary Meeting on May 23, 2018. market or maintaining the liquidity of the Capgemini share by way of a liquidity contract signed with Kepler Cheuvreux on October 3, 2016; Legal framework – date of the Shareholders' Meeting called to authorize the share buy-back  570,393 shares to the objective of allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate officers. program This share buy-back program is taking place within the legal Objectives of the share buy-back program framework of articles L.225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, and within the scope of the European and allocation of shares purchased Regulation No. 2273/2003 of December 22, 2003 taken by way Capgemini’s intention is to make use of the possibility to acquire of application of the 2003/6/CE directive of January 28, 2003, its own shares, with the following objectives: referred to as “Market Abuse” directive or any other European  the allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate regulation that may be substituted for it. officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by law), in The May 23, 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting will be offered to particular with a view to the allocation of free shares pursuant authorize the implementation of this share buy-back program. to the provisions of Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, the allocation or sale of shares to Pursuant to the provisions of article 241-2 II of the AMF general employees under the French statutory profit-sharing scheme regulations, any change in the information contained in this or the implementation of any Company or Group savings plan program description listed in § 3, 4 and 5 of section I of (or similar plan) on the terms provided by law, in particular article 241-2 will be, as soon as practicable, made available to the Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du general public, in accordance with the provisions of article 221-3 travail), and generally, honoring all obligations relating to of the AMF general regulations, notably by making it available on share option programs or other share allocations to the Company’s website: www.capgemini.com. employees or corporate officers of the Company or a related company; or 288 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.4 Share buyback program  the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to representing 0.37% of its share capital as at March 1, 2018 securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, the maximum number of shares which may be purchased conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other amounts to 16,248,810 shares, representing 9.63% of the means; or share capital as at March 1, 2018, unless the Company sells  the cancellation of some or all of the shares purchased; or or cancels own shares currently held.  the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise)  Maximum purchase price: €150 per share (or the equivalent at in connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or the same date in any other currency). It should be noted that asset-for-share exchanges; or (i) this price could be adjusted in the event of a change in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing  the management of the secondary market or maintenance of reserves, a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse stock the liquidity of the Capgemini share by an investment services split, a distribution of reserves or any other assets, a share provider under a liquidity contract that complies with the capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting share ethical code recognized by the Autorité des marchés financiers capital and (ii) the total amount of purchases may not exceed (AMF the French financial markets authority). €2,520 million. This program is also intended to enable the implementation of any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF and more Implementation and duration of the share generally the carrying out of any transaction that complies with buy-back program prevailing regulations.  Implementation of the program: Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be performed at any time other than Proportion of share capital, number of shares during the period of a public offer for the Company’s shares, and purchase price subject to the limits authorized by prevailing laws and  Maximum percentage of the share capital and maximum regulations, on one or more occasions and by any means, and number of shares of Capgemini that may be purchased: particularly on regulated markets, via a multilateral trading Purchases of the Company’s own shares may be made such facility or systematic internalizer or over the counter, that, at the date of each purchase, the total number of including by block purchases or sales, by public offer for cash shares acquired by the Company since the beginning of the or shares or using options or other forward financial buyback program (including the shares subject to the current instruments traded on regulated markets, via a multilateral purchase) does not exceed 10% of the shares comprising the trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the counter, 5 Company’s share capital at that date (1) (including either directly or through an investment services provider, or transactions impacting the share capital and performed after in any other manner (with no limit on the portion of the share the May 23, 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting), it being stipulated buyback program carried out by each of these means). that (i) the number of shares purchased with a view to their  Share buy-back program duration and schedule: retention or presentation in a merger, demerger or eighteen months as from the date of adoption of the 14th asset-for-share exchange transaction may not exceed 5% of resolution by the May 23, 2018 Combined Shareholders’ the Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the shares are Meeting, i.e., up to November 23, 2019. Pursuant to repurchased to improve liquidity on the terms set out in the article 225-209 of the French Commercial Code, the AMF general regulations, the number of shares taken into aggregate number of shares which may be cancelled in any account in calculating the above 10% limit will be the given period of twenty-four months shall not exceed 10% of number of shares purchased minus the number of shares the Company’s share capital (adjusted for any transactions resold during the authorization period. For illustrative performed after the May 23, 2018, Combined Shareholders’ purposes, as at March 1, 2018, considering that the Company Meeting) holds 632,893 of its own shares as at March 1, 2018, (1) i.e., for illustrative purposes, on the basis of the total number of shares issued and outstanding as at March 1, 2018, 16,881,703 shares. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 289 5 CAPGEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 290 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board Shareholders’ Meeting 292 of Directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” 6.2 Resolutions presented at the employee shareholding plan 329 Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 309 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports 333 6.3 Summary of the financial resolutions 328 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 291 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting This report presents the proposed resolutions submitted to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting by the Board of Directors. It consists of this introduction, the overview statements preceding the resolutions and a summary table of financial authorizations submitted for approval. The objective of this report is to draw your attention to the important points in the draft resolutions, in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations and with best corporate governance practice recommended for companies listed in Paris. It does not purport to be comprehensive and does not replace a careful reading of the draft resolutions prior to voting. Shareholders are also invited to refer to the guidelines on the “Draft resolutions presented to shareholders of listed companies for vote”, produced by the French business association, MEDEF, in conjunction with ANSA and AFEP and available in French on its website www.medef.com for further information on the issues surrounding draft resolutions and the related legal framework application to French companies. An overview of the financial position, activities and results of the Company and its Group during the last fiscal year and other information required by prevailing law and regulations are also presented in the Management Report on fiscal year 2017 included in the 2017 Registration Document (available on www.capgemini.com), to which you are invited to refer. 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 1ST AND 2ND RESOLUTIONS APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW In these two resolutions, we ask you to approve the Company  the Company financial statements of Capgemini SE showing financial statements and the consolidated financial statements a net profit of €2,718,722,306.93; of Capgemini for the year ended December 31, 2017 as follows:  the consolidated financial statements of Capgemini showing net profit for the Group of €820 million. FIRST RESOLUTION Approval of the 2017 Company financial statements The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum ended December 31, 2017, showing net profit for the year of and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after €2,718,722,306.93, as presented, and the transactions recorded having read the Board of Directors’ and the Statutory Auditors’ therein and summarized in these reports. reports, approves the Company financial statements for the year SECOND RESOLUTION Approval of the 2017 consolidated financial statements The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum year ended December 31, 2017, showing net profit for the Group and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after of €820 million, as presented, and the transactions recorded having read the Board of Directors’ and the Statutory Auditors’ therein and summarized in these reports. reports, approves the consolidated financial statements for the 292 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 3RD RESOLUTION APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS AND SETTING OF THE DIVIDEND OVERVIEW The third resolution relates to the appropriation of earnings for For individual beneficiaries who are French tax residents, the the year ended 2017 and the setting of the dividend. dividend is fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code (Code général des impôts) It is proposed that the dividend be set at €1.70 per share, where an express, global and irrevocable election is made for representing a total distribution of €286,422,361.40 based on taxation under the progressive scale of personal income tax. the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, Where such an election is not made, the dividend is subject to 2017. the standard flat tax (prélèvement forfaitaire unique) introduced In line with the Group’s historic dividend distribution policy that by the 2018 Finance Bill and is no longer eligible for this 40% ensures a balance between the investments required for its tax rebate. long-term development and the redistribution of profits to Taking account of the recommendations of certain investors, shareholders, the payout ratio for the year ended December 31, and so as not to encourage security lending/borrowing 2017, excluding exceptional items, would be 35%. transactions around the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Residual distributable profits for the year, i.e. Board of Directors proposes an ex-dividend date of June 4, €5,486,962,891.71, shall be added to retained earnings. 2018 and a dividend payment date starting from June 6, 2018. THIRD RESOLUTION Appropriation of earnings and setting of the dividend The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum the recommendations of the Board of Directors to appropriate and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, approves the net profit for the year ended December 31, 2017 as follows: ■ net profit for the year €2,718,722,306.93 ■ no funding of the legal reserve as already fully funded i.e. a balance of: €2,718,722,306.93 ■ retained earnings of previous years: €3,054,662,946.18 6 i.e. distributable earnings: €5,773,385,253.11 ■ allocated to: payment of a dividend of €1.70 per share: €286,422,361.40 (1) retained earnings for the balance: €5,486,962,891.71 giving a total of: €5,773,385,253.11 (1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2017 and could therefore change if this number varies between January 1, 2018 and the ex-dividend date. It should be noted that the dividend, set at €1.70 for each of the dividend, the number of treasury shares held by the Company shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2018, will be fully has changed compared to the number held on December 31, eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of 2017, the fraction of the dividend relating to this change will the French Tax Code (Code général des impôts) where an express, either increase or reduce retained earnings. global and irrevocable election is made for taxation under the Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled progressive scale of personal income tax. that the following amounts were paid over the past three fiscal The ex-dividend date will be June 4, 2018 and the dividend will years: be payable from June 6, 2018. If, at the time of payment of the Total amount (1) Distributed income (2) Dividend per share (in euros) (in euros) (in euros) Fiscal year 2016 261,229,104.40 261,683,477.50 1.55 Fiscal year 2015 231,221,780.55 228,749,429.70 1.35 Fiscal year 2014 195,149,725.20 198,381,067.20 1.20 (1) Theoretical values calculated based on the number of shares bearing dividend rights on December 31 each year. (2) Amounts effectively paid after adjusting the number of shares bearing dividend rights for any change in the number of treasury shares, the issuance of new shares and/or the cancellation of existing shares between January 1 and the ex-dividend date. These amounts were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code (Code général des impôts) for each fiscal year. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 293 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 4TH RESOLUTION APPROVAL OF THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION AND ALL TYPES OF BENEFIT IN KIND PAID OR GRANTED IN RESPECT OF FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO MR. PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OVERVIEW Pursuant to Article L.225-100 II of the French Commercial Code On the Compensation Committee’s recommendation, the and provisions introduced by the law on transparency, the fight Board of Directors, at its meeting of February 14, 2018, has against corruption and the modernization of the economy (the approved the fixed, variable and exceptional components of so-called Sapin II law), shareholders are now called to express total compensation and all types of benefit in kind, paid or their opinion on the fixed, variable and exceptional granted to Mr. Paul Hermelin in respect of fiscal year 2017. components of total compensation and all types of benefit in The table below summarizes all the components of Mr. Paul kind paid or granted in respect of the previous fiscal year to Hermelin’s compensation, submitted to shareholder vote executive corporate officers. pursuant to the 4th resolution, as presented in the Board of It is recalled that the principles and criteria for determining, Directors’ report on corporate governance and also included in allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional Section 2.4.2 of the 2017 Registration Document, components of total compensation and all types of benefit in paragraph “Compensation components due or awarded in kind granted to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief respect of 2017 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in respect of his duties, were approved by Executive Officer”. shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 (5th resolution). Compensation components due or awarded in respect of 2017 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and subject to shareholder mandatory vote Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2017 was approved by the Board of compensation (paid in 2017) Directors on February 15, 2017 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged on 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Paul Hermelin’s role who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and the evolution and internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.1% per annum. This theoretical compensation falls within the median of CAC 40 executives. 294 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation Annual €991,668 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 14, 2018, the Board, based on the audited and variable (paid in 2018) approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the compensation amount of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2017, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results as compared to an ambition decided by the Board: 1) % attainment of the revenue: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2017 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the objectives set by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 15, 2017. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 99.38%, 93.11%, 98.77% and 103.6% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 98.22%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that for 2017: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 75%, the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 125%, the V1 component will be capped and equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 4%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 98.22% in 2017 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 92.89%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*92.89% = €449,588. V2 component: The evaluation and the associated proposal have been prepared on the basis of the work done by the Compensation Committee which reviewed the various qualitative objectives grouped into three categories: “Digital and Cloud strategic roadmap” for 40%, “the HR and delivery strategy” for 30% and “the growth of the North American market” for 30%. For the first category (Digital and Cloud strategic acceleration-40%), the Board set three 6 qualitative indicators with an overall 25% weight around i) ensuring the communication of a clear strategic roadmap, an aligned and effective acquisition strategy and targets supporting the roadmap and an associated go to market structure. The overall assessment made by the Board on these three elements were supported by a clear presentation made during the Group “Rencontres” last October in Geneva, five new acquisitions realized or managed in 2017 and a defined road map for the go to market. It was partly balanced by the fact that the go-to-market implementation will only be effective July 1, and that a new major acquisition was announced only in 2018. This led them to evaluate the overall achievement at 96% for this part, the first two being exceeded, while the last one being in progress. For the quantitative measure weighting 15%, the growth of Digital& Cloud offerings was due to be strong in 2017 with a similar trend in the 2018 budget. With a 24% communicated growth in these domains, the Board considered that this quantitative objective has been well exceeded. In regard to the achieved quantified indicators and to the qualitative evaluation, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been achieved at 115%. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 295 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation For the second category (HR and delivery strategy -30%), the Board based its recommendations on the following quantitative objectives for 15% i) an above 20% growth year on year of the female representation in the Group Executive Committee and Strategic Business Units/key Business Units Management Committees which has been more than doubled at 47% ii) a 10% internal VP mobility vs 14% achieved and iii) a 15% growth of the senior offshore leadership presence in Management Committee, which has been met. He has also based its recommendations on the two following qualitative objectives for 15% i) a progressive refreshment of Group leadership supported by an external renowned assessment firm, and ii) adaptation/anticipation to regulatory changes. For these two qualitative elements, the Board in addition to the new governance, noticed the nominations of several leaders to the Executive Committee and a significant renewal in the VP population as well as the creation of a global mobility function associated with a risk mitigation strategy around mobility. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been overachieved at 113%. For the third category (growth of the North American market -30%), the Board took into consideration two quantitative indicators each with a 10% weight i) the revenue growth at least equal to market growth in the second semester year on year which has been exceeded with an organic growth of 8.3% achieved in the second semester and ii) the increase by 5 points of the Digital& Cloud offerings in the portfolio which has been nearly achieved with a +4.7points improvement. From a qualitative standpoint, the indicator was around the reinforcement of the North America organization and governance, which following several appointments and based on a strong second semester has been evaluated by the Board as achieved for the qualitative part. The Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 107%. The Board approved a weighted performance of 112% as per the table below: Target Proposal Objective type Computed Qualitative Computed Qualitative Digital and Cloud 15% 25% 22% 24% acceleration HR and delivery 15% 15% 19% 15% strategy (diversity, mobility and talent management) North America growth 20% 10% 22% 10% Total 50% 50% 63% 49% Target 100% Proposed 112% leading to a V2 calculation of €484,000*112%=€542,080 Accordingly, a variable compensation of €991,668 was approved by the Board for 2017, i.e. 68.3% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 102.4% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2017 is therefore €2,443,688 i.e. 101% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: 2017 Variable compensation calculation for Mr. Paul Hermelin V1: quantitative part based on budgeted financial targets Indicators Weight % of Weighted achievement Total Revenue 30% 99.38% 29.82% Operational Margin % 30% 93.11% 27.93% Net results before tax 20% 98.77% 19.75% Organic Free cash Flow 20% 103.6% 20.72% Total weighted R/B before flex 98.22% Total weighted after 75/125 flex (4*weighted R/B-3) 92.89% Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 449,588 296 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation V2: qualitative part based on 2017 objectives Categories Weight Overall weight Digital and Cloud acceleration 40% HR and delivery strategy 30% 112.0% North America growth 30% Variable V2 on target 484,000 Computed V2 542,080 TOTAL 2017 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 991,668 As a % of the total variable on target 102.4% As a % of fixed compensation 68.3% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid after the submission of the compensation policy to the shareholders. Deferred N/A There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year N/A There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional N/A No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation Stock options, Performance 35,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. performance shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance shares or any €2,323,342 condition and an internal performance condition. The internal performance condition accounts for other form (accounting 50% of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2017 to of long-term value on 2019. The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €2.9 billion. Above this threshold, shares compensation grant date) vest progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow 6 of €3.2 billion or more. The external performance conditions accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of the Capgemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of 8 comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/Indra/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Capgemini share is less than 100% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 50% of the initial grant vests. The external condition has been strengthened since 2016, as the effective vesting of shares starts from a minimum achievement of 100% of the basket of comparable companies, while it historically started at 90%. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer may not exceed 0.001% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. Sixteenth resolution Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on October 5, 2017 Stock options No stock options or other items were granted. = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect fees waiver attendance fees as a director of Capgemini SE. in respect of 2017 (as he has done for the last eight years). Valuation €0 No benefits in kind. of benefits in kind REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 297 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting FOURTH RESOLUTION Approval of fixed, variable and exceptional components of having read the Board of Directors’ report, approves, as total compensation and all types of benefit in kind paid or presented, the fixed, variable and exceptional components of granted in respect of fiscal year 2017 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, total compensation and all types of benefit in kind paid or Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. granted in respect of fiscal year 2017 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after PRESENTATION OF THE 5TH AND 6TH RESOLUTIONS APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION POLICY APPLICABLE TO THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS OVERVIEW Shareholders are asked to approve the compensation policy the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief applicable to corporate executive officers pursuant to the Operating Officers as well as the compensation policy provisions of Article L.225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, applicable to such officers for 2018, were approved by the introduced by the so-called Sapin II law on transparency, the Board of Directors on February 14, 2018 on the fight against corruption and the modernization of the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. They are economy. detailed in the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance presented in Section 2.4.1 of the 2017 Registration The principles and criteria for determining, allocating and Document. awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total compensation and all types of benefit in kind granted to FIFTH RESOLUTION Approval of the principles and criteria for determining, granting the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional compensation and all types of benefit in kind granted to the components of total compensation and all types of benefit in Chairman and Chief Executive Officer by virtue of his office as kind granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and detailed in the said report, and (ii) their application as part of the their application as part of the renewal of his duties as Chairman renewal of his duties as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of and Chief Executive Officer. the Board by the Board of Directors’ meeting to be held following this Shareholders’ Meeting, subject to approval of the The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with 10th resolution relating to the renewal of Mr. Hermelin’s term of quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings office as director. and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, approves (i) the principles and criteria for determining, allocating and SIXTH RESOLUTION Approval of the principles and criteria for determining, the principles and criteria for determining, allocating and allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional granting the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total components of total compensation and all types of benefit in compensation and all types of benefit in kind granted to the kind granted to the Chief Operating Officers and their Chief Operating Officers by virtue of their office as detailed in application as part of the renewal of their duties as Chief the said report, and (ii) their application as part of the renewal of Operating Officers. their duties as Chief Operating Officers by the Board of Directors’ meeting to be held following this Shareholders’ The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with Meeting. quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, approves (i) 298 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 7TH AND 8TH RESOLUTIONS APPROVAL OF REGULATED COMMITMENTS GIVEN IN FAVOR OF MR. THIERRY DELAPORTE AND MR. AIMAN EZZAT, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS OVERVIEW The 7th and 8th resolutions submit for approval of the The employment contracts of the Chief Operating Officers do shareholders regulated commitments falling within the not contain a termination benefits clause, other than the provisions of Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code provisions provided for in the collective bargaining agreement. and given in favor of Messrs. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman These contracts will be suspended during their terms of office Ezzat, Chief Operating Officers, subject to the provisions of as corporate officer in accordance with the recommendations Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code as of the AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code applicable to Chief mentioned in the Statutory Auditors’ special report. Operating Officers. In anticipation of the appointment of Messrs. Thierry Delaporte It is recalled that the rules of the performance share plans and Aiman Ezzat as Chief Operating Officers with effect from benefiting Messrs. Delaporte and Ezzat do not provide for the January 1, 2018 and on the Compensation Committee’s retention of rights to performance shares not yet delivered in proposal, the Board of Directors, at its meeting of December 6, the event of early departure, except on retirement, death or 2017, authorized in their favor the principle of a severance invalidity. indemnity in the event of termination of their corporate office The Board ensured strict performance conditions were as Chief Operating Officer as well as a non-compete attached to the termination benefits in the event of cessation undertaking, described below. of the corporate office. The appointment of the two Chief Operating Officers forms Finally, the Board of Directors, in accordance with the part of measures to prepare Capgemini’s management recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, has capped at transition. The Board of Directors considered it was in the twice the theoretical annual compensation (fixed and variable) Company’s interest during this transition period to protect both applicable at the date of cessation of duties the aggregate the newly appointed Chief Operating Officers, by introducing a amount of (i) termination benefits effectively paid, (ii) termination benefit mechanism, and the Group, through a severance payments for termination of the employment non-compete clause. contract and (iii) any compensation paid, if any, on application of a non-compete commitment. Compensation pursuant to Termination beneﬁts on Compensation resulting 2 year cap the collective bargaining cessation of the corporate from application of a on theoretical annual 6 agreement in respect of oﬃce based on non-compete clause on compensation the employment contract performance over the last cessation of the corporate (ﬁxed + variable) three years oﬃce payable, except in the event applicable at the date of of gross or willful misconduct, based on + (payable, unless departure at the individual’s initiative, + Equal to 50% of theoretical gross compensation (ﬁxed + ≤ cessation of duties seniority as an employee due to a change in function variable) applicable on the prior to appointment as an within the Group, date of cessation of the executive corporate oﬃcer) retirement or gross or duties of Chief Operating willful misconduct) Oﬃcer (i.e. ≤ 1 year) Severance indemnity due in the event Operating Officer in regard to his V1 variable component of cessation of corporate office (linked to performance criteria and the Group’s consolidated financial results) during each of the last three completed fiscal In case of termination of their corporate office as Chief years preceding the termination of his duties as Chief Operating Officer, Messrs. Delaporte and Ezzat would receive a Operating Officer, it being specified that the last year will severance indemnity. count for 40%, while the two previous fiscal years will count for The aggregate amount (i) of the severance indemnity 30% each. As the grant and the amount of the V1 variable part effectively paid, (ii) of any indemnity likely to be paid in is subject to performance indicators and the Group’s connection with the termination of an employment agreement, consolidated results, the severance indemnity is as a result and (iii) of any indemnity likely to be paid in consideration for subject to the satisfaction of these same performance the non-compete undertaking, may not exceed a maximum conditions. amount equal to twice the applicable gross theoretical No severance indemnity shall be due if the Chief Operating compensation (fixed plus variable) as at the date of termination Officer leaves the Company on his own initiative, changes of said duties. functions within the Group, is entitled to assert in a near future The granting and the amount of the severance indemnity his rights to retirement, or in the event of gross negligence or depend on the percentage attainment of the weighted serious misconduct. performance of the financial indicators applicable to the Chief REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 299 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Non-compete undertaking Messrs. Delaporte and Ezzat would be subject to a Pursuant to Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, non-compete undertaking for a period of twelve months as the commitments given by the Board of Directors to from the termination of their employment contracts following Messrs. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat are presented for termination of their duties as Chief Operating Officer in return approval to the Shareholders’ Meeting subject to the adoption for an indemnity equal to half of the applicable gross of the Chief Operating Officer compensation policy set out in theoretical compensation (fixed plus variable) where all the the 6th resolution and the renewal of the corporate office of objectives have been reached as at the date of termination of Messrs. Delaporte and Ezzat duties as Chief Operating Officers the duties of Chief Operating Officer. by the Board of Directors’ meeting to be held following this Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors will be entitled, at its own discretion, to lift this non-compete obligation on departure of the Chief Operating Officers and therefore in such case, not to implement this non-compete indemnity. SEVENTH RESOLUTION Approval of the regulated commitments subject to the Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, the provisions of Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial commitments referred to in said article given by the Company in Code given in favor of Mr. Thierry Delaporte, Chief favor of Mr. Thierry Delaporte and relating to indemnities that Operating Officer, relating to severance indemnities due in may be paid to him in the event of termination of his corporate the event of termination of his corporate office and a office and as part of a non-compete undertaking. non-compete undertaking This resolution is approved subject to approval of the The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with 6th resolution relating to the compensation policy for the Chief quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings Operating Officers, and the renewal of Mr. Thierry Delaporte’s and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the duties as Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors’ Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and meeting to be held following this Shareholders’ Meeting. commitments, approves, in accordance with the provisions of EIGHTH RESOLUTION Approval of the regulated commitments subject to the Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, the provisions of Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial commitments referred to in said article given by the Company in Code given in favor of Mr. Aiman Ezzat, Chief Operating favor of Mr. Aiman Ezzat and relating to indemnities that may be Officer, relating to severance indemnities due in the event of paid to him in the event of termination of his corporate office termination of his corporate office and a non-compete and as part of a non-compete undertaking. undertaking This resolution is approved subject to approval of the The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with 6th resolution relating to the compensation policy for the Chief quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings Operating Officers, and the renewal of Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s duties and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the as Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors’ meeting to Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and be held following this Shareholders’ Meeting. commitments, approves, in accordance with the provisions of 300 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 9TH RESOLUTION REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS – SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS OVERVIEW In this resolution, we ask you to take due note that: As a reminder, the Board of Directors decided on July 29, 2015 to freeze the rights of Mr. Paul Hermelin pursuant to the  no new related-party agreements were authorized during supplementary pension plan, with effect as of October 30, the year ended December 31, 2017; and 2015. This was a favorable development for the Company with  the regulated commitments submitted to shareholders vote regard to the commitment it made to Mr. Hermelin. This plan under the 7th and 8th resolutions were authorized in fiscal was closed to potential new beneficiaries with effect on the year 2017 in favor of the Chief Operating Officers, subject to same date. the approval by shareholders of the compensation policy for the Chief Operating Officers and the renewal of their duties During 2017, Mr. Paul Hermelin did not receive any by the Board of Directors’ meeting to be held following this compensation pursuant to this agreement. Shareholders’ Meeting. Pursuant to Article L.225-40-1 of the French Commercial Code, As indicated in the Statutory Auditors’ special report, the the Board of Directors performed an annual review of this registration of Mr. Hermelin as beneficiary of a supplementary agreement. pension scheme, which was previously approved by shareholders at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 10, 2007, is the only agreement authorized in previous years with continuing effect during 2017. NINTH RESOLUTION Regulated agreements and commitments – Special report of the Statutory Auditors The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum Commercial Code, approves the said special report and takes due and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after note that no new related-party agreements or commitments, having read the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated which had not previously been approved by the shareholders, agreements governed by Article L.225-38 et seq. of the French were authorized during the year ended December 31, 2017. 6 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 301 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 10TH, 11TH, 12TH AND 13TH RESOLUTIONS RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS’ TERM OF OFFICE – APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR OVERVIEW The Board of Directors of Capgemini SE, meeting on March 13, and diversify profiles with a reduced number of directors 2018 under the chairmanship of Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and reinforcing cohesion and collective and efficient decision-making. Chief Executive Officer, and on the report of Mr. Pierre Pringuet, The Board therefore decided to propose the renewal of the Chairman of the Ethics and Governance Committee and Lead terms of office of Ms. Laurence Dors, Chairman of the Independent Director, deliberated on the evolution of the Compensation Committee and of Mr. Xavier Musca, Chairman of composition of the Board of Directors given the expiry of the the Audit and Risk Committee, both Independent Directors, for a terms of office of seven directors at the coming Shareholders’ period of four years. Meeting of May 23, 2018. The Board of Directors further proposed the appointment of In line with the announcements made in October 2017, the Board Mr. Frédéric Oudéa as a member of the Board of Directors for a of Directors decided to propose the renewal of the term of office period of four years. Chief Executive Officer of Société Générale, of Mr. Paul Hermelin as director for a period of four years and Mr. Oudéa will bring to the Board his experience in managing a intends to confirm him in his duties of Chairman of the Board and leading banking group with an ambitious international Chief Executive Officer if the Shareholders’ Meeting renews his development plan and highly innovative in Digital. The Board has term of office as director. indicated that Mr. Oudéa would be considered independent This renewal of office is part of the preparation of the pursuant to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the management succession engaged with the support of the Board Company refers. of Directors since the end of 2016. Mr. Hermelin had indicated in The Board of Directors warmly thanked Ms. Caroline May 2017 his wish to continue exercising the duties of Chairman Watteeuw-Carlisle, Mr. Yann Delabrière, Mr. Phil Laskawy and Mr. and Chief Executive Officer for a period representing Bruno Roger whose contributions to the work of the Board and approximately half a term of office; he has informed the Board of its Committees during their respective terms of office Directors of his intention to step down as Chief Executive Officer accompanied the different phases of the Group’s development. while remaining Chairman of the Board. It is recalled that, as part of this transition, two Chief Operating Officers were appointed Assuming the adoption of these resolutions by the on October 11, 2017 upon his proposal. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018, the composition of the Board of Directors will decrease from 16 to 13 directors, with The Board also wished to combine efforts in recent years to 80% of Independent Directors (1) and 45% of female directors (2) renew the Board’s composition, increase the number of women and a reduced average age of 59 years old. (1) The directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (2) The two directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with Article L.225-27 of the French Commercial Code. 302 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PAUL HERMELIN Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Paul Hermelin is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École Nationale d’Administration. He spent the first fifteen years of his professional life in the French government, primarily in the Ministry of Finance. He held a number of positions in the Budget Office and on various ministry staffs, including that of Finance Minister Jacques Delors. He was chief of staff to the Minister of Industry and Foreign Trade, from 1991 to 1993. Date of birth: Mr. Paul Hermelin joined the Capgemini Group in May 1993, where he was first in charge of coordinating central April 30, 1952 functions. In May 1996, he was appointed member of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer of Nationality: Capgemini France. In May 2000, following the merger of Capgemini and Ernst & Young Consulting, he became French Chief Operating Officer of the Group and director. On January 1, 2002, he became Chief Executive Officer of the Business address: Capgemini Group, followed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 24, 2012. He has been a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 24, 2002. Capgemini SE 11, rue de Tilsitt Principal office: 75017 Paris Mr. Paul Hermelin has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE since May 2012. First appointment: OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 2000 Expiry Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Chairman of: of term of office:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2012)  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. (since March 2016) 2018 Director of:  CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S. (since (Ordinary November 2005) Shareholders’  AXA* (until April 2017) Meeting held to Chairman of:  SOGETI FRANCE 2005 S.A.S. (since November 2005) approve the 2017  CAPGEMINI 2015 S.A.S. (since December 2010) financial statements)  THE BRIDGE SAS Number of shares Other offices in Capgemini Group: Manager of: held at Dec. 31, 2017: Chairman of the Board of Directors of:  SCI PARIS ETOILE (since March 2016) 282,048 Chief Executive Officer of:  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (USA) (since April 2002)  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, Inc. (USA) (since  CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (USA) (since November 2005) December 2000) Director of: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of:  CGS HOLDINGS LTD (UK) (since June 1999) 6  CAPGEMINI N.V. (Netherlands) (until  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INDIA Ltd November 2012) (since August 2017) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Capgemini Group: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: Chairman of:  CAPGEMINI GOUVIEUX S.A.S. (until April 2014)  CAPGEMINI 2010 S.A.S. (until September 2015) Director of:  CAMELIA PARTICIPATIONS SAS (until January 2013)  CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL SERVICES Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: INTERNATIONAL, INC. (USA) (until March 2016)  CAPGEMINI HOLDING INC. (USA) (until  IGATE CORPORATION (USA) (until May 2016) December 2013)  SOGETI SA / NV (Belgium) (until December 2013) Chairman of the Board of Directors of:  CPM BRAXIS SA (Brazil) (until May 2013)  CAPGEMINI US LLC (USA) (until July 2016)  CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA Pty Ltd (until May 2014) Chief Executive Officer of:  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. (until March 2016) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 303 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting LAURENCE DORS Independent Director Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit & Risk Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Laurence Dors is a graduate of Ecole Normale Supérieure and Ecole Nationale d’Administration. A former senior civil servant in the French Finance Ministry and former member of the Prime Minister’s staff (1995-1997) and the Ministry of the Economy’s staff (1994-1995), Ms. Laurence Dors has spent much of her professional Date of birth: career in international and executive management positions in major international groups (Lagardère, EADS, March 16, 1956 Dassault Systems, Renault). She is the cofounder and a Senior Partner of the consulting firm Theano Advisors Nationality: (formerly Anthenor Partners). A specialist in governance issues and an Independent Director, she sits on the French Board of Directors of IFA (French Institute of Directors). Business address: Theano Advisors Ms. Laurence Dors has been a member of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole SA since May 19, 2009. She 57, rue Pierre Charron chairs the Compensation Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Appointments and Governance Committee. She also sits on the Board of Directors of Egis, a non-listed engineering company 75008 Paris specializing in consulting and the development of projects offering added value through innovation. She chairs First appointment: the Compensation Committee and is a member of the Engagements Committee. 2010 Expiry Ms. Laurence Dors holds the ranks of Knight of the Legion of Honor and Officer of the National Order of Merit. of term of office: Ms. Laurence Dors has been a member of the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE since May 27, 2010. She has 2018 been Chairman of the Compensation Committee since May 10, 2017 and a member of the Audit & Risk (Ordinary Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) and the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 7, 2014. Shareholders’ Meeting held to Ms. Laurence Dors brings to the Board of Directors her considerable governance experience, her financial and approve the 2017 business consulting expertise and her experience in the management of leading international groups in the financial statements) technology sector. Number of shares Principal office: held at Dec. 31, 2017: Ms. Laurence Dors has been a Senior Partner of Theano Advisors (formerly Anthenor Partners) since July 2012. 1,000 OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Member of:  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2010)  IHEAL (Institute of Latin American Studies)  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA* (since May 2009) Strategic Policy Committee (since June 2012)  EGIS SA (since November 2011)  CEFA (Franco-German Economic Club) Policy Committee (since October 2005)  IFA (French Institute of Directors) (since May 2012) Senior Partner of:  THEANO ADVISORS (since July 2012) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Director of:  INHESJ (French National Institute for Advanced Studies in Security and Justice) (until April 2016) (*) Listed company. 304 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting XAVIER MUSCA Independent Director Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of Institut d’Etudes Politiques in Paris and École Nationale d’Administration, Mr. Xavier Musca began his career at the General Finance Inspectorate in 1985. In 1989, he joined the Treasury Directorate, where he became head of the European Affairs Bureau in 1990. In 1993, he was called to the Prime Minister’s staff, then returned to the Treasury Directorate in 1995. Between 2002 and 2004, he was Principal Private Secretary to Francis Mer, Minister for the Economy, Finance and Industry, then appointed Treasury Director in 2004. He was Date of birth: subsequently appointed Director General of Treasury and Economic Policy in June 2005. In these positions, he February 23, 1960 played a key role in preparing major European and global summits at the start of the financial crisis. He was the Nationality: French negotiator at IMF and World Bank meetings and coordinated the bailout of the European Union banking French sector with his European counterparts. In 2009, he became Deputy Secretary General to the French President in Business address: charge of economic affairs and was responsible for negotiations at the G20 meeting in London on April 2, 2009 Crédit Agricole SA on placing the global financial system on a sounder footing and improving supervision and the fight against tax 50, avenue Jean havens. He was appointed Secretary General to the French President in 2011. Jaurès 92120 Montrouge On June 13, 2012, Mr. Xavier Musca was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA, First appointment: responsible for International retail banking, Asset management and Insurance. He has been Deputy Chief 2014 Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA, as effective second Executive Director of Crédit Agricole SA since Expiry May 2015. of term of office: Mr. Xavier Musca is a Knight of the Legion of Honor, the National Order of Merit and the Order of Agricultural 2018 Merit. (Ordinary Mr. Xavier Musca joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 7, 2014. He has been a member of the Shareholders’ Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date and was appointed Chairman on Meeting held to approve the 2017 December 7, 2016. Mr. Xavier Musca brings to the Board of Directors his management experience with a major financial statements) international group and his financial expertise. He has in-depth knowledge of the financial sector, including both Number of shares retail and BtoB services, which accounts for some 25% of Group revenues. He also provides the Board with his held at Dec. 31, 2017: knowledge of economic globalization issues. 1,000 Principal office: Mr. Xavier Musca has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer of CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA since July 2012. OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Director of: Director – Vice-Chairman of: 6  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2014)  PREDICA (since November 2012) Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group: Director of: Deputy Chief Executive Officer (since July 2012)  CA ASSURANCES (since November 2012) and effective second Executive Director  CACI (since June 2013) (since May 2015) of: Director of:  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA*  CARIPARMA (ITALY) (since October 2016) (Member of the Management Committee – Member of the Executive Committee) Permanent Representation of Crédit Agricole SA on the Board of Directors of: Chairman of:  PACIFICA (since October 2012)  AMUNDI SA* Director (since July 2012, renewed in April 2015) and Chairman (since December 7, 2016)  CA CONSUMER FINANCE (since July 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group: Director – Vice-Chairman of: Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of:  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE EGYPT SAE* (until 2015)  CRÉDIT DU MAROC* (until 2015) Director of: Vice-Chairman of:  BESPAR (until May 2014)  UBAF (until 2015)  BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO (until December 2014) Member of the Executive Committee of:  CACEIS (until 2015)  CARIPARMA (ITALY) (until 2015) (*) Listed company. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 305 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting FRÉDÉRIC OUDÉA BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Born in 1963. Frédéric Oudéa is a graduate of the École Polytechnique and the École Nationale d’Administration. From 1987 to 1995, Frédéric Oudéa held various positions in the French senior civil service (Audit Department of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy and Finance, Budget Ministry, Private Office of the Minister of Budget and Communication). In 1995, he joined Société Générale and in 1996 he was appointed Deputy Head then Date of birth: Head of the bank’s Corporate Banking arm in London. In 1998, he became Head of Global Supervisory and July 3, 1963 Development of the Equities division. In May 2002, he was named Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Société Nationality: Générale Group. He became Chief Financial Officer of the Group in January 2003. In 2008 he was appointed CEO French of the Group, before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2009. Following the regulatory split Business address: Tours Société between the roles of Chairman and chief executive, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer in May 2015. In 2010 Générale, he was named Chairman of the Steering Committee on Regulatory Capital (“SCRC”) at the Institute of 75886 Paris Cedex International Finance (“IIF”), President of the European Banking Federation (“EBF”) since January 2015. 18 Principal office: First appointment: 2018 Mr. Frédéric Oudéa has been Chief Executive Officer of Société Générale since May 2015. Expiry of term of office: OFFICES HELD IN 2017 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 2022 (Ordinary Chief Executive Officer of: Shareholders’ Meeting  SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE * (since May 2015) held to approve OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) the 2021 financial statements) N/A Number of shares held at March 13, 2018: 0 * Listed company. TENTH RESOLUTION Renewal of the term of office as director of Mr. Paul Hermelin. At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Hermelin, which expires at the close of this meeting. This new Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and term of office will therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements four-year period the term of office as director of Mr. Paul for the year ending December 31, 2021. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION Renewal of the term of office as director of Ms. Laurence Dors. At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Dors, which expires at the close of this meeting. This new term Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and of office will therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements four-year period the term of office as director of Ms. Laurence for the year ending December 31, 2021. TWELFTH RESOLUTION Renewal of the term of office as director of Mr. Xavier Musca. At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Musca, which expires at the close of this meeting. This new term Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and of office will therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements four-year period the term of office as director of Mr. Xavier for the year ending December 31, 2021. THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION Appointment of Mr. Frédéric Oudéa as a director. At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the term of office will expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, appoints for the year ending December 31, 2021. Mr. Frédéric Oudéa as a director for a period of four years. This 306 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 14TH RESOLUTION SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM OVERVIEW We ask you to authorize the Board of Directors to buy back Finally, it is noted that during fiscal year 2017, treasury shares shares of the Company for the objectives and in accordance held by the Company were not reallocated to other objectives. with the conditions presented in the draft resolution. Shares buybacks by the Company during fiscal year 2017 were performed either under the multi-year buyback program Use of the authorization granted in 2017 launched in 2016, or within the framework of a specific buyback Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinary authorization related to the ESOP 2017 share ownership plan. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 renewed the authorization Shareholders are reminded that as part of the active granted to the Company to buy back its shares. This authorization management of the share capital, the Board of Directors was used in 2017 in connection with the liquidity contract (entered decided on December 7, 2016 to increase by €500 million the into with Kepler Cheuvreux) and more generally as part of the Company’s multi-year share buyback program, previously continued purchase by the Company of its own shares. approved in February 2016 and initially for €600 million. The The liquidity contract seeks to improve the liquidity of the terms of this multi-year buy-back program fall within the scope Capgemini share and to allow regular quotations. In 2017, a of the authorization granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of total of 904,664 shares were purchased on behalf of May 10, 2017 and any subsequent authorization, such as the Capgemini SE, at an average price of €91.96 per share, one submitted for approval in the 14th resolution. representing 0.54% of the share capital at December 31, 2017. In addition, as part of the active management of the During the same period, 1,025,733 Capgemini SE shares were shareholder dilution related to the employee share ownership sold at an average price of €91.70 per share, representing 0.61% plan (ESOP 2017), the Board of Directors, at its meeting of of the share capital at December 31, 2017. At the year-end, the September 19, 2017, authorized share buybacks, in addition to liquidity account balance comprised 28,931 treasury shares the multi-year share buyback program, for a maximum amount (0.02% of the share capital) and approximately €20 million. of €400 million and within the limit of 3.6 million shares In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares exclusively for the purpose of canceling shares thus acquired. in 2017. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held 570,393 of its own shares at December 31, 2017, following the New authorization requested in 2018 various transactions described below: The new resolution submitted for approval provides for the buy  purchase of 5,530,159 shares representing 3.28% of the back by the Company of its own shares up to the statutory limit share capital at December 31, 2017, at an average price of of 10% of the number of shares comprising the share capital at €97.69 per share; the date of such purchases, and a maximum number of treasury 6  transfer of 1,158,600 shares to employees under the free shares held after such purchases not exceeding 10% of the share grant plan; amount of the Company’s share capital at any time. The maximum purchase price will be set at €150 per share. The  cancellation of 6,680,523 shares. acquisition, disposal and transfer transactions described above Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax may be carried out by any means in accordance with prevailing totaled €1,724,799 in 2017. laws and regulations – including through the use of derivative instruments or by means of a block purchase or transfer of At December 31, 2017, excluding the liquidity contract, the shares – and be carried out at any time, except during public 570,393 treasury shares representing 0.34% of the Company’s offers for the Company’s shares. This authorization is granted share capital were allocated to the grant or sale of shares to for a limited period of 18 months. employees and/or corporate officers. FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization of a share buyback program. employees under the French statutory profit-sharing scheme or the implementation of any Company or Group savings plan The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum (or similar plan) on the terms provided by law, in particular and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du having read the Board of Directors’ report, authorizes the Board travail), and generally, honoring all obligations relating to of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent share option programs or other share allocations to authorized by law and in accordance with Articles L.225-209 et employees or corporate officers of the Company or a related seq. of the French Commercial Code, to purchase or arrange the company; or purchase of the Company’s shares, particularly with a view to:  the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to  the allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by law), in conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other particular with a view to the allocation of free shares pursuant means; or to the provisions of Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, the allocation or sale of shares to  the cancellation of some or all of the shares purchased; or REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 307 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting  the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise) systematic internalizer or over the counter, either directly or in connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or through an investment services provider, or in any other manner asset-for-share exchanges; or (with no limit on the portion of the share buyback program  the management of the secondary market or maintenance of carried out by each of these means). the liquidity of the Capgemini share by an investment services The maximum purchase price of shares purchased pursuant to provider under a liquidity contract that complies with the this resolution will be €150 per share (or the equivalent at the ethical code recognized by the French Financial Markets same date in any other currency). The Shareholders’ Meeting Authority (Autorité des marchés financiers, AMF). delegates to the Board of Directors powers to adjust the This program is also intended to enable the implementation of aforementioned maximum purchase price in the event of a any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF and more change in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by generally the carrying out of any transaction that complies with capitalizing reserves, a free share allocation, a stock split or prevailing regulations. In such cases, the Company will inform its reverse stock split, a distribution of reserves or any other assets, shareholders by means of a press release. a share capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting share capital, to take account of the impact of such transactions Purchases of the Company’s own shares may be made such that, on the value of the shares. at the date of each purchase, the total number of shares acquired by the Company since the beginning of the buyback The total amount allocated to the share buyback program program (including the shares subject to the current purchase) authorized above may not exceed €2,520 million. does not exceed 10% of the shares comprising the Company’s The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board of share capital at that date (including transactions impacting the Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent share capital and performed after this Shareholders’ Meeting), it authorized by law, to decide and implement this authorization being stipulated that (i) the number of shares purchased with a and if necessary to specify the conditions and determine the view to their retention or presentation in a merger, demerger or terms thereof, to implement the share buyback program, and in asset-forshare exchange transaction may not exceed 5% of the particular to place stock market orders, allocate or reallocate Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the shares are purchased shares to desired objectives subject to applicable legal repurchased to improve liquidity on the terms set out in the AMF and regulatory conditions, set any terms and conditions that may general regulations, the number of shares taken into account in be necessary to preserve the rights of holders of securities or calculating the above 10% limit will be the number of shares other rights granting access to the share capital in accordance purchased minus the number of shares resold during the with legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any authorization period. contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be performed at necessary, to make declarations to the French Financial Markets any time other than during the period of a public offer for the Authority or any other competent authority, to accomplish all Company’s shares, subject to the limits authorized by prevailing other formalities and generally do all that is necessary. laws and regulations, on one or more occasions and by any This authorization is granted for a period of eighteen months as means, and particularly on regulated markets, via a multilateral from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the counter, including by block purchases or sales, by public offer for cash or It supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused shares or using options or other forward financial instruments portion, the authorization granted by the 11th resolution adopted traded on regulated markets, via a multilateral trading facility or by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. 308 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF 15TH RESOLUTION CANCELLATION OF TREASURY SHARES OVERVIEW It is recalled that the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Shareholders are asked today to renew for a period of May 18, 2016 authorized the Board of Directors to cancel, up to 26 months the authorization granted to the Board of Directors a maximum of 10% of the share capital, on one or several to cancel shares bought back up to a maximum of 10% of the occasions, at its sole discretion, all or some of the treasury share capital by 24-month period, this share capital amount shares held by the Company or that it comes to hold pursuant being adjusted for any transactions performed after the date of to Article L.225-209 of the French Commercial Code and to the Shareholders’ Meeting. reduce the share capital accordingly. During fiscal year 2017, 6,680,523 treasury shares, excluding the liquidity contract, were cancelled. FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of transactions impacting the share capital subsequent to this twenty-six months, to cancel shares bought back by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Company under the share buyback programs. The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board of The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum Directors, with the power of sub-delegation, to carry out such and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and cancellation(s) and reduction(s) of share capital as may be after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the performed pursuant to this authorization, to deduct from Statutory Auditors’ special report, authorizes the Board of additional paid-in capital or the distributable reserves of its Directors to reduce the share capital, on one or more occasions, choice the difference between the purchase price of the in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, by cancellation of cancelled shares and their par value, to allocate the portion of 6 whatever number of treasury shares it decides up to the limits the legal reserve that becomes available as a result of the capital authorized by law, in accordance with Articles L.225-209 et seq. reduction, to amend the bylaws and to carry out all necessary and L.225-213 of the French Commercial Code. formalities. At the date of each cancellation, the maximum number of shares This authorization is granted for a period of twenty-six months as cancelled by the Company during the twenty-four month period from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. preceding such cancellation, including the shares subject to the The Shareholders’ Meeting takes due note that this authorization current cancellation, may not exceed 10% of the shares supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, comprising the Company’s share capital at that date, this limit the authorization granted by the 11th resolution adopted by the being applied to a share capital amount adjusted to reflect any Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 309 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF 16TH TO 22ND RESOLUTIONS FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS OVERVIEW Financial authorizations requested in 2018 1. Resolutions 16 to 22 are all intended to give the Board of 3. These authorizations are indeed subject to limits covering Directors powers to make certain decisions regarding their validity and issue ceilings. Firstly, each authorization is increasing the Company’s share capital. The aim of these granted for a limited period. In addition, the Board of financial authorizations is to give the Board of Directors Directors may only increase the share capital up to strictly flexibility in its choice of potential issue, and to enable it, at defined ceilings, above which the Board of Directors cannot the appropriate time, to adapt the nature of the financial increase the share capital again without calling a new instruments issued to the Company’s needs and conditions Shareholders’ Meeting. These ceilings are presented in the in French or international financial markets. summary table following this report. They consist mainly of 2. These resolutions may be split into two main categories: a common overall ceiling of €540 million (i.e. nearly 40% of those that would result in share capital increases with the share capital at December 31, 2017) applicable to all retention of pre-emptive subscription rights, and those that share capital increases by issue of shares and/or securities would result in share capital increases with cancellation of granting access to the share capital, and a sub-ceiling of pre-emptive subscription rights. €134 million (i.e. nearly 10% of the share capital at December 31, 2017) common to all share capital increases All share capital increases for cash entitle existing by issue of shares and/or securities granting access to the shareholders to a “pre-emptive subscription right”, which is share capital with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription detachable and may be traded during the subscription rights. period. For a period of at least five trading sessions after the opening of the subscription period, each shareholder has the Furthermore, the 16th to 22nd resolutions may not be used right to subscribe for a quantity of new shares proportionate by the Board of Directors following a public offer for the to his/her existing interest in the share capital. Company’s shares until the end of the offer period (unless specifically authorized by a Shareholders’ Meeting). In some of these resolutions, the Board of Directors requests your authorization to cancel this pre-emptive subscription right. Depending on market conditions and the Use of the authorizations granted previously type of securities issued, it may be necessary to cancel It is reminded that the Board of Directors did not make use of pre-emptive subscription rights in order for the the previous financial authorizations granted by the newly-issued securities to be placed on the best possible Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. terms, particularly when speed is essential to the success of It is recalled that the last share capital increase was performed an issue. The authorizations requested are nevertheless in in 2015 in the context of the IGATE acquisition financing. It was line with market practices. a share capital increase of a par value amount of €54 million, raising equity of €506 million by way of a private placement exclusively with institutional investors. SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a 2. resolves that the maximum par value amount of share capital period of twenty-six months, to increase the share capital by increases performed pursuant to this delegation may not a maximum amount of €1.5 billion by capitalizing additional exceed €1.5 billion or the equivalent in any other currency or paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other amounts. currency unit established by reference to more than one currency, it being stipulated that this ceiling will be The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and increased, where applicable, by the par value amount of majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and Board of Directors’ report and in accordance with regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual Articles L.225-129-2 and L.225-130 of the French Commercial Code: terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority access to the share capital; to decide share capital increases, on one or more occasions, 3. in the event the Board of Directors uses this delegation of in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, by capitalizing authority, delegates to the Board full powers, with the additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, to amounts that may be converted into share capital under the implement this delegation, and in particular to: law and the Company’s bylaws and by issuing new shares or increasing the par value of existing equity instruments or by ❚ determine the amount and nature of sums to be capitalized, a combination of both methods; set the number of new equity instruments to be issued and/or the amount by which the par value of existing equity instruments will be increased and decide the date, which may be retroactive, from which the new equity instruments will rank for dividends or the increase in the par value of existing equity instruments will take effect, 310 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ decide in the event of a free allocation of equity ❚ generally, enter into all agreements, take all measures and instruments that fractional rights will not be negotiable or accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial transferable and that the corresponding equity instruments administration of securities issued by virtue of this will be sold in accordance with the methods determined by delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached the Board of Directors, it being specified that the sale and thereto; allocation of the sales proceeds must be performed within 4. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior the time period set by Article R.225-130 of the French authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation Commercial Code, following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, ❚ set terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of until the end of the offer period; the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting 5. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as access to the share capital (including by means of cash from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; adjustments), 6. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this ❚ duly record completion of each share capital increase and date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, granted by the 12th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a increases in the Company’s share capital made under this period of twenty-six months to issue, with retention of delegation and under those delegations granted by the 18th, pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or 19th, 20th, 21st and 22nd resolutions of this Shareholders’ securities granting access to the Company’s share capital. Meeting is set at €540 million or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit established by reference to more The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum than one currency, and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory ❚ added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of any Auditors’ special report and in accordance with shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and Articles L.225-129 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual particularly Articles L.225-129, L.225-129-2, L.225-132 terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, to L.225-134 and L.228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting Code: access to the share capital, 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing additional sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other amounts and to decide a share capital increase with retention of allocating free shares during the period of validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the 6 pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding fit, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit before and after the transaction; established by reference to more than one currency, with or 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt without a share premium, whether for valuable instruments on the issue of securities representing debt consideration or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/or the share capital of the Company or other companies: (ii) securities governed by Articles L.228-92 paragraph 1, ❚ the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that may be L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.228-94 paragraph 2 of the issued immediately or in the future under this delegation is French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or in set at €9.3 billion or the equivalent in any other currency or the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, currency unit established by reference to more than conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a one currency at the issue date, it being stipulated that the warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the maximum aggregate nominal value of debt instruments that Company or other companies (including companies in which may be issued under this delegation and under those the Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the delegations granted by the 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st and share capital), it being stipulated that the shares may be 22nd resolutions of this Shareholders’ Meeting is set at paid-up in cash, by offset of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, €9.3 billion or the equivalent in any other currency or currency profits or additional paid-in capital; unit established by reference to more than one currency, 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share ❚ these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any capital increases in the event of use by the Board of redemption premium above par, Directors of this delegation: ❚ these limits are independent of the amount of any debt ❚ the maximum par value amount of share capital increases that instrument issues decided or authorized by the Board of may be carried out under this delegation is set at €540 million Directors in accordance with Articles L.228-36-A, L.228-40, or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit L.228-92 paragraph 3, L.228-93 paragraph 6 and L.228-94 established by reference to more than one currency, it being paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code; stipulated that the maximum aggregate par value amount of REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 311 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 4. in the event the Board of Directors uses this delegation: ❚ set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights ❚ resolves that the issue(s) will be reserved in priority for (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the case shareholders, who may subscribe pursuant to their priority may be, including by delivery of Company assets) attached to rights in proportion to the number of shares owned by them shares or securities granting access to share capital, and in at that time, particular set the date, which may be retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for dividend, and all other terms and ❚ takes due note that the Board of Directors will have the conditions for the completion of the share capital increase, option of instituting pro-rated subscription rights, ❚ set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will ❚ takes due note that this delegation of authority involves the have the option of purchasing or exchanging securities on the waiver by shareholders, in favor of holders of securities issued stock market, at any time or during specified periods, whether granting access to the Company’s share capital, of their or not such purchase or exchange is performed with a view to pre-emptive subscription rights to the shares to which these cancellation in accordance with legal provisions, securities will grant entitlement immediately or in the future, ❚ at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against the ❚ takes due note that, in accordance with Article L.225-134 of related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums the French Commercial Code, if subscriptions as of right and necessary to increase the legal reserve, any pro-rated subscriptions do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of Directors may use, in the conditions provided by law ❚ determine and make all adjustments to take account of the and in the order it sees fit, any or all of the options listed impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the below: Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing  allocate at its discretion some or all of the shares or in the reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital (or any other case of securities granting access to the share capital, all amounts), a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse stock or part of securities not subscribed, split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in  offer to the public (on the French market or on a foreign capital or any other assets, a share capital redemption, or any market) some or all of the shares or in the case of other transaction impacting share capital or equity (including securities granting access to the share capital, all or part in the case of a public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a of securities not subscribed, change in control) and set all other terms enabling the  generally limit the share capital increase to the amount of preservation, where applicable, of the rights of holders of subscriptions received, provided, in the case of issues of securities or other rights granting access to the share capital shares or securities where the primary instrument is a (including by means of cash adjustments), share, that the share capital increase reaches at least ❚ duly record completion of each share capital increase and three-quarters of the amount of the share capital make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, increase initially decided after the use, where applicable, ❚ generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure of the above-two options; completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and ❚ resolves that share subscription warrants may also be issued accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial without consideration to holders of existing shares; administration of securities issued by virtue of this delegation 5. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, and for the exercise of the rights attached thereto; with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized 6. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors uses by law, to implement this delegation, and in particular to: the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this ❚ decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access, resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next immediately or in the future, to the share capital of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the law Company or other companies, and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations conferred in this resolution; ❚ determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and the amount of any premium that may be required on issue or, as 7. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior the case may be, the amount of reserves, profits or any other authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation amounts to be incorporated in the share capital, following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; ❚ determine the dates and terms of the issue, the nature, number and characteristics of the shares and/or securities to 8. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as be issued, from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; ❚ for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 9. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated and granted by the 13th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these Meeting of May 18, 2016. securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance with applicable formalities, 312 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a 17th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case period of twenty-six months to issue, by way of a public may be, towards any overall ceiling stipulated by a resolution offer with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, of the same kind that may supersede said resolution during ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the the period of validity of this delegation, Company’s share capital. ❚ added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of any The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, Auditors’ special report and in accordance with the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting Articles L.225-129 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and in access to the share capital, particular Articles L.225-129-2, L.225-135, L.225-136, L.225-148 ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing additional and L.228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial Code: paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other amounts and 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of allocating free shares during the period of validity of this sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the to decide a share capital increase with cancellation of ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, in before and after the transaction; France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees 4. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt fit, by public offer, in euros or in any other currency or instruments on the issue of securities representing debt currency unit established by reference to more than one instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to currency, with or without a share premium, whether for the share capital of the Company or other companies: valuable consideration or without consideration, by issuing ❚ the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that may be (i) shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), issued immediately or in the future under this delegation is and/or (ii) securities governed by Articles L.228-92 set at €3.1 billion or the equivalent in any other currency or paragraph 1, L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.228-94 currency unit established by reference to more than paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code granting access, one currency at the issue date, it being stipulated that this immediately or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by amount will count towards the overall ceiling set in subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation paragraph 3 of the 17th resolution of this Shareholders’ of a warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the Meeting or, as the case may be, towards any overall ceiling Company or other companies (including companies in which stipulated by a resolution of the same kind that may the Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the supersede said resolution during the period of validity of this share capital), it being stipulated that the shares may be delegation, paid-up in cash, by offset of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital. Such securities may be ❚ these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any 6 issued in particular as consideration for securities meeting redemption premium above par, the conditions laid down in Article L.225-148 of the French ❚ these limits are independent of the amount of any debt Commercial Code that may be contributed to the Company in instrument issues decided or authorized by the Board of connection with a public exchange offer initiated by the Directors in accordance with Articles L.228-36-A, L.228-40, Company in France or abroad under local rules (for example L.228-92 paragraph 3, L.228-93 paragraph 6 and L.228-94 in connection with a reverse merger); paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code; 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 5. resolves to cancel shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority rights in respect of the securities covered by this resolution, to decide issues of shares and/or securities granting access whilst however giving the Board of Directors discretion to the Company’s share capital to be carried out further to pursuant to Article L.225-135, paragraph 5 of the French the issue, by companies in which the Company directly or Commercial Code to grant shareholders, for a period and on indirectly owns more than half the share capital, of securities terms to be set by the Board of Directors in compliance with granting access to the Company’s share capital. applicable laws and regulations, and for all or part of any This decision involves the waiver by shareholders, in favor of issue that may be carried out, a priority subscription period holders of securities that may be issued by companies of the that does not give rise to negotiable rights and which must Company’s group, of their pre-emptive subscription rights to be exercised in proportion to the quantity of shares owned the shares or securities granting access to the Company’s by each shareholder and which may be supplemented by an share capital to which these securities grant entitlement; application to subscribe for shares on a pro-rated basis, it being stipulated that securities not thus subscribed will be 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share offered to the public in France or abroad; capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this delegation: 6. resolves that if subscriptions, including where applicable by shareholders, do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of ❚ the maximum par value amount of share capital increases that Directors may limit the issue to the amount of subscriptions may be carried out under this delegation is set at €134 million received, provided, in the case of issues of shares or or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit securities where the primary instrument is a share, that the established by reference to more than one currency, it being share capital increase reaches at least three-quarters of the stipulated that this amount will count towards the overall amount of the issue decided; ceiling for share capital increases set in paragraph 2 of the REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 313 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 7. takes due note that this delegation involves the waiver by connection with a public offer with an exchange component shareholders, in favor of holders of securities issued granting (public exchange offer), draw up a list of securities access to the Company’s share capital, of their pre-emptive contributed to the exchange, set the conditions of the issue, subscription rights to the shares to which these securities the exchange ratio and the amount of any cash portion to will grant entitlement; be paid as an exception to the method for determining the 8. takes due note that, in accordance with Article L.225-136 1° price set in paragraph 8 of this resolution, and determine paragraph 1 of the French Commercial Code: the terms of the issue in connection with a public exchange offer, or an alternative cash or exchange offer, or a single ❚ the issue price of shares issued directly will be at least equal offer to purchase or exchange the securities in question in to the minimum stipulated by applicable regulations at the return for payment in securities and cash, or a principal date of the issue (currently, the weighted average price of public cash offer or public exchange offer accompanied by a the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated subsidiary public exchange offer or public cash offer, or any market during the three trading days preceding the date on other form of public offer in compliance with the laws and which the price is set, less 5%) after making any adjustments regulations applicable to public offers, to that average in the event of differences in dividend ranking dates, ❚ at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against the related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums ❚ the issue price of securities granting access to the share necessary to increase the legal reserve, capital and the number of shares to which conversion, redemption or more generally transformation of each security ❚ determine and make all adjustments to take account of the granting access to the share capital would confer entitlement impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the will be such that the amount received immediately by the Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par Company plus any amount to be received subsequently by the value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing Company will, for each share issued as a consequence of the reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital (or any other issue of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum amounts), a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse subscription price defined in the previous paragraph; stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other assets, a share capital redemption, 9. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, or any other transaction impacting share capital or equity with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized (including in the case of a public offer for the Company’s by law, to implement this delegation, and in particular: shares and/or a change in control) and set all other terms ❚ decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access, enabling the preservation, where applicable, of the rights of immediately or in the future, to the share capital of the holders of securities or other rights granting access to the Company or other companies, share capital (including by means of cash adjustments), ❚ determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and the ❚ duly record completion of each share capital increase and amount of any premium that may be required on issue or, as make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, the case may be, the amount of reserves, profits or any ❚ generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure other amounts to be incorporated in the share capital, completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and ❚ determine the dates and terms of the issue, the nature, accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial number and characteristics of the shares and/or securities administration of securities issued by virtue of this delegation to be issued, and for the exercise of the rights attached thereto; ❚ for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 10. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated or following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, not and their remuneration) and amend, during the life of until the end of the offer period; these securities, the above terms and conditions, in 11. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors uses compliance with applicable formalities, the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this ❚ set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the case Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the law may be, including by delivery of Company assets) attached and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations to shares or securities granting access to share capital, and conferred in this resolution; in particular set the date, which may be retroactive, from 12. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as which the new shares will rank for dividend, and all other from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; terms and conditions for the completion of the share capital increase, 13. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegations ❚ set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will granted by the 14th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ have the option of purchasing or exchanging securities on Meeting of May 18, 2016. the stock market, at any time or during specified periods, whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed with a view to cancellation, in accordance with legal provisions, ❚ in the event of an issue of securities intended as consideration for securities contributed to the Company in 314 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting NINETEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a share capital per year), it being stipulated that this amount period of twenty-six months to issue, by way of a private will count towards the ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the placement with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription 18th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting and towards the rights, ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of the 17th resolution or, as the Company’s share capital. the case may be, towards any ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that may supersede said The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum resolutions during the period of validity of this delegation, and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory ❚ added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of any Auditors’ special report and in accordance with Articles L.225-129 shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and et seq. of the French Commercial Code and in particular regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual Articles L.225-129-2, L.225-135, L.225-136 and L.228-91 et seq. of terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, the French Commercial Code and Article L.411-2 II of the French the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier): access to the share capital, 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other to decide a share capital increase with cancellation of amounts and allocating free shares during the period of pre-emptive subscription rights by way of a private validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted placement governed by Article L.411-2 II of the French based on the ratio between the number of shares issued and Monetary and Financial Code, on one or more occasions, in outstanding before and after the transaction; France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees 4. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt fit, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit instruments on the issue of securities representing debt established by reference to more than one currency, with or instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to without a share premium, whether for valuable the share capital of the Company or other companies: consideration or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares ❚ the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that may be of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/or issued immediately or in the future under this delegation is (ii) securities governed by Articles L.228-92 paragraph 1, set at €3.1 billion or the equivalent in any other currency or L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.228-94 paragraph 2 of the currency unit established by reference to more than French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or in one currency at the issue date, it being stipulated that this the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, amount will count towards the ceiling set in paragraph 4 of conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a the 18th resolution and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the of the 17th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the Company or other companies (including companies in which the Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the case may be, towards any ceilings stipulated by resolutions of 6 the same kind that may supersede said resolutions during the share capital), it being stipulated that the shares may be period of validity of this delegation, paid-up in cash, by offset of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital; ❚ these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any redemption premium above par, 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority ❚ these limits are independent of the amount of any debt to decide issues of shares or securities granting access to the instrument issue decided or authorized by the Board of Company’s share capital to be carried out further to the Directors in accordance with Articles L.228-36-A, L.228-40, issue, by companies in which the Company directly or L.228-92 paragraph 3, L.228-93 paragraph 6 and L.228-94 indirectly owns more than half the share capital, of securities paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code; granting access to the Company’s share capital. 5. resolves to cancel shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription This decision involves the waiver by shareholders, in favor of rights in respect of the securities covered by this delegation; holders of securities that may be issued by companies of the 6. resolves that if subscriptions, including where applicable by Company’s group, of their pre-emptive subscription rights to shareholders, do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of the shares or securities granting access to the Company’s Directors may limit the issue to the amount of subscriptions share capital to which these securities grant entitlement; received, provided, in the case of issues of shares or 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share securities where the primary instrument is a share, that the capital increases in the event of use by the Board of share capital increase reaches at least three-quarters of the Directors of this delegation: amount of the issue decided; ❚ the maximum par value amount of share capital increases 7. takes due note that this delegation involves the waiver by that may be carried out under this delegation is set at shareholders, in favor of holders of securities issued granting €134 million or the equivalent in any other currency or access to the Company’s share capital, of their pre-emptive currency unit established by reference to more than one subscription rights to the shares to which these securities currency (without exceeding the limits set by applicable will grant entitlement; regulations at the time of the issue, i.e. currently 20% of the REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 315 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8. takes due note that, in accordance with Article L.225-136 1° the stock market, at any time or during specified periods, paragraph 1 of the French Commercial Code: whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed with ❚ the issue price of shares issued directly will be at least equal a view to cancellation, in accordance with legal provisions, to the minimum stipulated by applicable regulations at the ❚ at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against the date of the issue (currently, the weighted average price of related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market necessary to increase the legal reserve, during the three trading days preceding the date on which ❚ determine and make all adjustments to take account of the the price is set, less 5%) after making any adjustments to that impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the average in the event of differences in dividend ranking dates, Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par ❚ the issue price of securities granting access to the share value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing capital and the number of shares to which conversion, reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital (or any other redemption or more generally transformation of each amounts), a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse security granting access to the share capital would confer stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, additional entitlement will be such that the amount received paid-in capital or any other assets, a share capital redemption, immediately by the Company plus any amount to be received or any other transaction impacting share capital or equity subsequently by the Company will, for each share issued as a (including in the case of a public offer for the Company’s consequence of the issue of such securities, be at least equal shares and/or a change in control) and set all other terms to the minimum subscription price defined in the previous enabling the preservation, where applicable, of the rights of paragraph; holders of securities or other rights granting access to the 9. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, share capital (including by means of cash adjustments), with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized ❚ duly record completion of each share capital increase and by law, to implement this delegation, and in particular: make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, ❚ decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access, ❚ generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure immediately or in the future, to the Company’s or other completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and company’s share capital, accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial ❚ determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and the administration of securities issued by virtue of this delegation amount of any premium that may be required on issue or, as and for the exercise of the rights attached thereto; the case may be, the amount of reserves, profits or any other 10. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior amounts to be incorporated in the share capital, authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation ❚ determine the dates and terms of the issue, the nature, following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, number and characteristics of the shares and/or securities to until the end of the offer period; be issued, 11. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors uses ❚ for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated and Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the law their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance conferred in this resolution; with applicable formalities, 12. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as ❚ set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the case 13. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this may be, including by delivery of Company assets) attached to date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation shares or securities granting access to share capital to be granted by the 15th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ issued, and in particular set the date, which may be Meeting of May 18, 2016. retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the completion of the share capital increase, ❚ set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will have the option of purchasing or exchanging securities on TWENTIETH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, on the issue of 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of ordinary shares or securities granting access to the sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, in the case Company’s share capital with cancellation of pre-emptive of a share capital increase by way of an issue of equity subscription rights, to set the issue price in accordance with instruments with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription the terms set by the Shareholders’ Meeting, up to a rights pursuant to the 18th and 19th resolutions of this maximum of 10% of the share capital per Shareholders’ Meeting, to set the issue price as follows: twelve-month period. ❚ the issue price of shares will be at least equal to the lower of The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and the average price of the share on the Euronext Paris majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having regulated market, weighted for trading volumes on the last read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ trading day preceding the setting of the issue price and the special report and in accordance with Article L.225-136 1°, average price of the share on the Euronext Paris regulated paragraph 2, of the French Commercial Code: market, weighted for trading volumes on the trading day when the issue price is set, in both cases potentially reduced by a discount of up to 5%, 316 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ the issue price of securities granting access to the share 2. resolves that the par value amount of share capital increases capital and the number of shares to which conversion, that may be performed immediately or in the future redemption or more generally transformation of each pursuant to this authorization is set, in accordance with the security granting access to the share capital would confer law, at 10% of the share capital per 12-month period (it entitlement will be such that the amount received being stipulated that this limit will be assessed at the date of immediately by the Company plus any amount to be received the decision to issue shares and/or securities granting access subsequently by the Company will, for each share issued as a to the share capital); consequence of the issue of such securities, be at least equal 3. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors uses to the minimum subscription price defined in the previous this authorization, it will prepare an additional report, paragraph; certified by the Statutory Auditors, describing the definitive terms of the transaction and providing information enabling an assessment of the effective impact on shareholder positions. TWENTY-FIRST RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a 2. resolves that the par value amount of share capital increases period of twenty-six months, to increase the number of decided pursuant to this resolution shall count towards the shares to be issued in the event of a share capital increase ceiling stipulated in the resolution pursuant to which the (through the issue of ordinary shares and/or of securities initial issue is decided and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 granting access to the share capital) with retention or of the 17th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting and that cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights. the nominal value of debt instruments issued pursuant to this resolution shall count towards the ceiling stipulated in the The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and resolution pursuant to which the initial issue is decided and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 17th resolution of read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards the special report and in accordance with Articles L.225-129-2 and ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that may L.225-135-1 of the French Commercial Code: supersede said resolutions during the period of validity of this 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of delegation; sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority 3. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior to decide to increase the number of shares to be issued in authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation the event of a share capital increase (through the issue of following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, ordinary shares and/or of securities granting access to the until the end of the offer period; share capital immediately or in the future) with retention or cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, at the same 4. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as 6 price as that of the initial issue, within the limits as to time from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; and quantity specified in applicable regulations at the date 5. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this of the issue (currently, within thirty days of the closure of date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation subscriptions and up to a maximum of 15% of the initial granted by the 17th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ issue), in particular with a view to granting a greenshoe Meeting of May 18, 2016. option in accordance with market practices; TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of Company or other companies (including companies in which twenty-six months, to issue ordinary shares and/or the Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, in share capital), as consideration for assets transferred to the consideration for contributions in kind to the Company of Company comprising equity instruments or securities granting shares or securities granting access to share capital, up to a access to share capital, in cases where Article L.225-148 of the maximum of 10% of the share capital. French Commercial Code does not apply; The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, capital increases in the event of use by the Board of having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Directors of this authorization: Auditors’ special report and in accordance with ❚ the maximum par value amount of share capital increases Articles L.225-129, L.225-129-2, L.225-147 and L.228-91 et seq. of that may be carried out under this authorization is set at the French Commercial Code: €134 million or the equivalent in any other currency or 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of currency unit established by reference to more than sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, to perform a one currency (without exceeding the limits set by applicable share capital increase, on one or more occasions, by issuing regulations at the time of the issue, i.e. currently 10% of the (i) shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), share capital), it being stipulated that this amount will count and/or (ii) securities governed by Articles L.228-92 towards the par value ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the paragraph 1, L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.228-94 18th resolution and towards the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code granting access, paragraph 2 of the 17th resolution or, as the case may be, immediately or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by towards the ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation kind that may supersede said resolutions during the period of a warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the of validity of this authorization, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 317 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of any the valuation of contributions or the remuneration of shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and specific benefits, regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual ❚ determine the terms and conditions of shares and/or terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is securities presented in consideration for contributions in necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other rights kind and amend, during the life of these securities, the granting access to the share capital, above terms and conditions, in compliance with applicable ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing formalities, additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other ❚ at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against the amounts and allocating free shares during the period of related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be necessary to increase the legal reserve, adjusted based on the ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding before and after the transaction; ❚ set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will have the option of purchasing or exchanging securities on 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt the stock market, at any time or during specified periods, instruments on the issue of securities representing debt whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to with a view to cancellation, in accordance with legal the share capital of the Company or other companies: provisions, ❚ the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that may ❚ determine and make all adjustments to take account of the be issued immediately or in the future under this impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the authorization is set at €3.1 billion or the equivalent in any Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par other currency or currency unit established by reference to value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing more than one currency at the issue date, it being stipulated reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital (or any other that this amount will count towards the ceiling set in amounts), a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse paragraph 4 of the 18th resolution and the overall ceiling set stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, additional in paragraph 3 of the 17th resolution of this Shareholders’ paid-in capital or any other assets, a share capital Meeting or, as the case may be, towards any ceilings redemption, or any other transaction impacting equity or stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that may share capital (including in the case of a public offer for the supersede said resolutions during the period of validity of Company’s shares and/or a change in control) and set all this authorization, other terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of ❚ these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting redemption premium above par, access to the share capital (including by means of cash ❚ these limits are independent of the amount of any debt adjustments), instrument issues decided or authorized by the Board of ❚ duly record completion of each share capital increase and Directors in accordance with Articles L.228-36-A, L.228-40, make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, L.228-92 paragraph 3, L.228-93 paragraph 6 and L.228-94 ❚ generally, enter into any agreement, take all measures and paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code; accomplish all formalities, in particular to achieve the 4. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, successful completion of the issue, listing and financial with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by administration of securities issued by virtue of this law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in authorization and for the exercise of the rights attached particular: thereto; ❚ decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access 5. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior to the Company’s share capital immediately or in the future authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this in consideration of assets transferred, authorization following a third party public offer for the ❚ draw up a list of the equity instruments and securities Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; granting access to the share capital transferred to the 6. grants this authorization for a period of twenty-six months as Company, approve the valuation of the contributions in from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; kind, set the terms of issues of shares and/or securities 7. takes due note that this authorization supersedes from this presented in consideration for said contributions and the date, in the amount of any unused portion, the authorization amount of any cash portion to be paid, approve the grant of granted by the 18th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ any specific benefits and reduce, if the contributors agree, Meeting of May 18, 2016. 318 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF 23RD RESOLUTION ALLOCATION OF SHARES TO EMPLOYEES OVERVIEW Desirous to continue its motivation policy and involving (ii) A financial performance condition measured by the employees and managers in the development of the Group, the amount of audited and published organic free cash flow for Board of Directors is seeking a new authorization to grant the three-year cumulative period from January 1, 2018 to additional performance shares, existing or to be issued, subject December 31, 2020, excluding Group payments to make up to internal and external performance conditions, during the the shortfall on its defined benefit pension funds. next 18 months, (with, in the case of shares to be issued, the No share would vest in respect of this financial waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights performance condition if the cumulative organic free cash in favor of the beneficiaries of the grants) up to a maximum of flow for the three fiscal years is less than €3,000 million, 1% of the share capital. while the maximum number of shares would vest if this The detailed performance conditions are presented in the draft amount is at least €3,250 million. 23rd resolution presented to you for vote. This proposal takes into account the significant and At the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the continuous depreciation of the dollar against the euro, the Board of Directors’ meeting of March 13, 2018 wished to Group’s reporting currency, since beginning 2017 whereas strengthen the alignment of performance conditions with the North America contributed 31% of the Group’s revenues as Group’s strategic priorities, by proposing the addition of a at December 31, 2017. performance condition linked to diversity and sustainable This financial performance condition would determine 50% development objectives reflecting the Group’s Corporate, of grants to executive corporate officers (Chairman and Social and Environmental Responsibility strategy. Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officers), members of the General Management Team and key Performance conditions applicable executive managers of the Group and 70% of grants to to performance share grants other beneficiaries. (i) A market performance condition assessed based on the (iii) A new performance condition tied to the Group’s 2020 comparative performance of the Capgemini SE share against diversity and sustainable development objectives. The the average performance of a basket of eight comparable diversity objective is based on the uncrease of the companies in the same business sector and from at least percentage of women in the Group’s Vice-Presidents inflow, five countries (Accenture/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI whether by external recruitment or internal promotion, by Group/Indra/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 and 25% over the period 2018-2020 and the sustainable development objective concerns a reduction in greenhouse Euro Stoxx Technology 600 indices (the latter index is new from 2018). gas emissions/person by at least 20% over the period 6 2015-2020, with each objective equally weighted. This external performance condition would determine 35% of grants to executive corporate officers (Chairman and More information on the methodology used to measure the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officers), greenhouse gas emissions reduction objective can be found in members of the General Management Team and key the 2017 Registration Document, Section 3.4.2. executive managers of the Group and 15% of grants to This new internal performance condition would determine other beneficiaries. 15% of grants to all beneficiaries. No shares would vest in respect of the external performance condition if the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is less than 100% of the average performance of the basket over a three-year period, while the maximum number of shares would vest if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 319 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Summary of performance conditions applicable to beneficiaries Weighting Weighting applied applied for for other Percentage of the grant determined Performance condition managers * beneficiaries by each performance condition Market condition: Performance of 35% 15% ■ 0% if <100% of the average performance the Capgemini share over a three-year of the basket period ■ 50% to 100% between 100% and 110% of the average performance of the basket over the reference period Financial condition: 50% 70% ■ 0% if <€3,000 million organic free cash flow for the three-year ■ 30% to 100% between €3,000 million and cumulative period from January 1, 2018 to €3,250 million over the reference period December 31, 2020 CSR condition comprising 7.5% 7.5% ■ 0% if the % of women becoming two objectives: Vice-President through external Diversity: increase in the number of female recruitment or internal promotion in flow Vice-Presidents over a three-year is <20% period (2018-2020) ■ 30% to 100% for an increase of this percentage between 20% and 25% over the reference period Reduction in the carbon footprint in 2020 7.5% 7.5% ■ 0% if <20% reduction in greenhouse gas compared with 2015 emissions/person ■ 30% to 100% if the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions/person in 2020 is between 20% and 22% compared with reference emissions in 2015 (*) Corporate executive officers (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officers), members of the General Management Team and key executive managers of the Group. Other terms and conditions The resolution also authorizes the Board of Directors to grant up to 15% of the maximum number of shares to Group employees, As in the past two years, the minimum vesting period for shares other than members of the General Management Team (the would remain set at three years, thereby responding favorably to Executive Committee), without performance conditions. the request by investors. In addition, if a retention period for shares definitively allocated was fixed by your Board, it should In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF not be less than one year. The vesting of shares is also subject to Code, performance share grants are undertaken at the same the effective presence of beneficiaries in the Company at the calendar periods and are decided by either the Board of Directors’ grant date, except in the event of death, disability or retirement. meeting held at the end of July or the following meeting. The resolution limits to 10% the maximum number of shares Recap of the use of authorizations previously that may be granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive granted by Shareholders’ Meetings: Officer and the Chief Operating Officers, it being specified that in this case, the Board of Directors will, in accordance with The use by the Board of Directors of previous resolutions for applicable laws, decide the portion of shares that must be held the grant of performance shares is presented in the Group by each individual until the end of his/her term of office. Management Report (“Performance share grants”, Section 5.1.4 of the 2017 Registration Document). 320 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting TWENTY-THIRD RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of  the performance target to be met in order for the shares eighteen months, to grant performance shares, existing or to to vest will be the performance of the Capgemini share be issued, to employees and corporate officers of the measured over a minimum three-year period compared Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, up to a to the average performance, measured over the same maximum of 1% of the Company’s share capital (with, in the period, of a basket containing at least five shares of listed case of shares to be issued, the waiver by shareholders of companies operating in the same sector as the Group in a their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of the minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly beneficiaries of the grants). established (France, the United States, etc.), In accordance with Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French  this relative performance will be measured by comparing Commercial Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in the stock market performance of the Capgemini share accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary with the average share price performance of the basket Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ over the same period, such that: report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: ❚ the number of shares that will ultimately vest: 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of ● will be equal to 35% of the Initial Allocation of shares if sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law – subject to the relative performance of the Capgemini share is at the achievement of the performance conditions defined in least equal to 110% of the basket, paragraphs 4 and 5 of this resolution and for a total number ● will vary between 17.5% and 35% of the Initial Allocation of shares not exceeding 1% of the share capital at the date of if the relative performance of the Capgemini share is the decision (this maximum number of shares being referred between 100% and 110% of the average performance to hereafter by the letter “N”) – to allocate shares of the of the basket, with an additional 1.75% of shares vesting Company (existing or to be issued), to employees of the for each percentage point between these limits, Company and employees and corporate officers of its French and non-French subsidiaries; ● will be equal to 17.5% of the Initial Allocation of shares if the relative performance of the Capgemini share is 2. resolves that up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these equal to 100% of the basket; performance shares may also be allocated, in accordance with applicable laws, to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  no shares will vest in respect of shares subject to this and the Chief Operating Officers of the Company, it being external performance condition, if, over the calculation specified that in this case, the Board of Directors will, in reference period, the performance of the Capgemini accordance with applicable laws, decide the portion of shares share is less than 100% of the average performance of that must be held by each individual until the end of his/her the basket of securities measured over the same period; term of office; ii. for 50%, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, 3. resolves that these performance shares will only vest at the multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen 6 end of a vesting period (the “Vesting Period”) of at least internal financial performance target based on organic three years, it being stipulated that the Board of Directors free cash flow, it being specified that: may introduce, where applicable, a lock-in period following  the performance target to be met in order for the shares the vesting of the shares the duration of which may vary to vest will be the amount of audited and published depending on the country of tax residence of the beneficiary; organic free cash flow for the three-year cumulative in those countries where a lock-in period is applied it will be period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020, of a minimum period of one year. excluding Group payments to make up the shortfall on its However, the shares will vest before the expiry of the above defined benefit pension funds, periods and may be freely sold in the event of the death or  no shares will vest in respect of this half of the Initial incapacity of the beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 Allocation subject to this internal performance condition, or 3 disability in France, as defined in Article L.341-4 of the if the cumulative organic free cash flow for the three French Social Security Code (Code de la sécurité sociale); fiscal years is less than €3,000 million, 4. resolves, subject to the powers conferred on the Board of  the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be Directors by law and this resolution, that the exact number of equal to the full amount of this half of the Initial shares vesting to executive corporate officers (Chairman and Allocation if the cumulative organic free cash flow for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officers), three fiscal years is at least €3,250 million and will vary on members of the General Management Team (Executive a straight-line basis between 15% and 50% of the Initial Committee) and key executive managers of the Group at the Allocation for a cumulative organic free cash flow end of the Vesting Period, compared with the total number between these two limits; it being understood that of shares (“Initial Allocation”) indicated in the allocation organic free cash flow is defined as cash flow from notice sent to beneficiaries will be equal to: operations less acquisitions (net of disposals) of i. for 35%, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost (as external performance target, it being specified that: presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows); REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 321 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting iii. for 15%, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation,  this relative performance will be measured by comparing multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen the stock market performance of the Capgemini share Corporate Social and Environmental performance target with the average share price performance of the basket based on Group objectives, it being specified that: over the same period, such that:  the performance target to be met in order for the shares ❚ the number of shares that will ultimately vest: to vest will be measured (a) 7.5% based on the evolution ● will be equal to 15% of the Initial Allocation of shares if over a period of three years of the percentage of women the relative performance of the Capgemini share is at in the Group’s Vice-Presidents inflow population whether least equal to 110% of the basket, by external recruitment or internal promotion, published ● will vary between 7.5% and 15% of the Initial Allocation and audited at December 31, 2020 and (b) 7.5% based on the percentage reduction in greenhouse gas if the relative performance of the Capgemini share is emissions/person published and audited over the between 100% and 110% of the average performance cumulative period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, of the basket, with an additional 0.75% of shares 2020, vesting for each percentage point between these limits, ● will be equal to 7.5% of the Initial Allocation of shares if  no shares will vest in respect of the Initial Allocation subject to this CSR performance condition, if the the relative performance of the Capgemini share is cumulated percentage of women in flow becoming equal to 100% of the basket; Vice-President within the Group through external  no shares will vest in respect of shares subject to this recruitment or internal promotion over the period external performance condition, if, over the calculation January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020 is less than 20% reference period, the performance of the Capgemini and if the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions/person share is less than 100% of the average performance of over the period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2020 is the basket of securities measured over the same period; less than 20%, ii. for 70%, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation,  the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen to the full amount of this 15% of the Initial Allocation, if internal financial performance target, it being specified the cumulated percentage of women in flow becoming that: Vice-President within the Group through external  the performance target to be met in order for the shares recruitment or internal promotion over the period to vest will be the amount of audited and published January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020 is at least equal to organic free cash flow for the three-year cumulative 25% and if the reduction in greenhouse gas period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020, emissions/person over the period January 1, 2015 to excluding Group payments to make up the shortfall on its December 31, 2020 is at least equal to 22%, defined benefit pension funds,  the number of shares that will ultimately vest will vary on  no shares will vest in respect of this 70% of the Initial a straight-line basis between 2.25% and 15% of the Initial Allocation subject to this internal performance condition, Allocation for achievement levels for either and/or both if the cumulative organic free cash flow for the of these performance conditions between the two limits three fiscal years is less than €3,000 million, indicated above;  the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be 5. resolves, subject to the powers conferred on the Board of equal to the full amount of this 70% of the Initial Directors by law and this resolution, that the exact number of Allocation if the cumulative organic free cash flow for the shares vesting to beneficiaries, other than referred to in three fiscal years is at least €3,250 million and will vary on paragraph 4 above, at the end of the Vesting Period, a straight-line basis between 21% and 70% of the Initial compared with the total number of shares (“Initial Allocation”) Allocation for a cumulative organic free cash flow indicated in the allocation notice sent to beneficiaries will be between these two limits; it being understood that equal to: organic free cash flow is defined as cash flow from i. for 15%, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, operations less acquisitions (net of disposals) of multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, external performance target, it being specified that: adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost (as  the performance target to be met in order for the shares presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows); to vest will be the performance of the Capgemini share iii. for 15%, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, measured over a minimum three-year period compared multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen to the average performance, measured over the same Corporate Social and Environmental performance target period, of a basket containing at least five shares of listed based on Group objectives, it being specified that: companies operating in the same sector as the Group in a  the performance target to be met in order for the shares to minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly vest will be measured (a) 7.5% based on the evolution over a established (France, the United States, etc.), period of three years of the percentage of women in the Group’s Vice-Presidents inflow population, whether by external recruitment or internal promotion, published and audited at December 31, 2020 and (b) 7.5% based on the percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions/person published and audited over the cumulative period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2020, 322 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting  no shares will vest in respect of the Initial Allocation 9. gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this subject to this CSR performance condition, if the authorization (with the power of sub-delegation to the percentage of women in flow becoming Vice-President extent authorized by law), and in particular to: within the Group through external recruitment or ❚ set the share allocation date, internal promotion over the period January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020 is less than 20% and if the reduction ❚ draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the number in greenhouse gas emissions/person over the period of shares allocated to each beneficiary, January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2020 is less than 20%, ❚ set the share allocation terms and conditions, including with  the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal respect to performance conditions, to the full amount of this 15% of the Initial Allocation, if ❚ determine whether the shares allocated for nil consideration the cumulated percentage of women in flow becoming are existing shares or shares to be issued and, where Vice-President within the Group through external applicable, amend this choice before the vesting of shares, recruitment or internal promotion over the period ❚ decide, in the event that transactions are carried out before January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020 is at least equal to the shares vest that affect the Company’s equity, whether 25% and if the reduction in greenhouse gas to adjust the number of the shares allocated in order to emissions/person over the period January 1, 2015 to protect the rights of the beneficiaries and, if so, define the December 31, 2020 is at least equal to 22%, terms and conditions of such adjustment,  the number of shares that will ultimately vest will vary on ❚ perform, where the allocations concern shares to be issued, a straight-line basis between 2.25% and 15% of the Initial the necessary share capital increases by capitalization of Allocation for achievement levels for either and/or both reserves and/or additional paid-in capital of the Company of these performance conditions between the two limits when the shares ultimately vest, set the dates from which indicated above; shares bear dividend rights, deduct from reserves and/or 6. resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding additional paid-in capital of the Company the amounts 15% of “N”, shares may be allocated to employees of the necessary to increase the legal reserve to 10% of the new Company and its French (within the meaning, particularly, of share capital amount following these share capital increases Article L.225-197-6, paragraph 1, of the French Commercial and amend the bylaws accordingly, Code) and non-French subsidiaries, excluding members of the ❚ carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do whatever General Management Team (the Executive Committee) is necessary; without performance conditions; 10. resolves that this authorization is granted for a period of 7. takes due note that this authorization involves the waiver by eighteen months as from the date of this Shareholders’ shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor Meeting and supersedes from this date, in the amount of any of beneficiaries of performance shares if the allocation unused portion, the delegation granted by the 16th resolution concerns shares to be issued; adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. 8. takes due note that the Board of Directors has, pursuant to 6 the law, the power to amend the performance conditions set out in paragraphs 4 and 5 above by way of a duly reasoned decision made after this decision and before the share allocations; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 323 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF 24TH AND 25TH RESOLUTION EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLANS OVERVIEW As part of the employee incentive policy and in order to align New authorization requested in 2018 employee interests with those of shareholders and also Shareholders are asked to renew the two authorizations by stabilize the Company’s share capital, the Board of Directors which the Shareholders’ Meeting would delegate to the Board wishes to continue making the Company’s share capital its power to increase the share capital or issue complex accessible to a large number of employees, in particular securities granting access to equity securities in favor of the through employee share ownership plans (“ESOP”). It is Company’s employees. This would allow the set-up of a new envisaged that such employee share ownership operations may employee share ownership plan. now be offered to Group employees on an annual basis, while ultimately aiming to maintain employee share ownership at An overall ceiling of €24 million (corresponding to 3 million around 5% to 7% of the Company’s share capital. shares and representing approximately 1.8% of the share capital at December 31, 2017) is proposed for these two delegations. Use of the authorizations granted in 2017 The 24th resolution is intended to allow the Board to carry out During fiscal year 2017, the Board of Directors used the share capital increases up to a maximum par value amount of 17th and 18th resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting €24 million reserved for members of employee savings plans of of May 10, 2017, by launching a new employee share ownership the Company or the Group. This resolution requires the plan aimed at associating employees with the development and cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights. The delegation performance of the Group. This plan was a great success, with a would be granted for a period of eighteen months. The subscription of 124%. 28,800 employees in the 21 participating maximum discount authorized compared to the Reference countries subscribed to the plan, representing 15.4% of eligible Price (as defined in the resolution) would be 20% (or 30% in the employees. This new Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) case of a lock-up period of 10 years or more). will help maintain employee share ownership at close to 5% of The 25th resolution aims to develop employee share ownership the share capital. outside France, given the legal or fiscal difficulties or 3,600,000 new shares, i.e. the maximum number of shares uncertainties that could make it difficult to implement such a offered, were subscribed at a unit price of €89.39. The plan directly or indirectly through a mutual fund in certain corresponding share capital increase of €321.8 million was countries. It shall be used only in the event of use of the completed on December 18, 2017. delegation provided in the 24th resolution, with a sub-ceiling of €12 million included in the overall ceiling of €24 million In order to neutralize the dilutive effect of the share capital provided in the 24th resolution. As for the 24th resolution, this increase, it is recalled that the Company bought back, within the resolution provides for the cancellation of pre-emptive framework of a specific buyback authorization as announced on subscription rights and would be granted for a period of September 21, 2017, 3,522,495 shares at a unit price of €102.20 eighteen months. The maximum discount authorized is 20%. for a total amount of €360 million. These shares were cancelled on December 18, 2017, at the same time as the share capital increase At December 31, 2017, employee share ownership represented linked to the employee share ownership plan (“ESOP 2017”). 4.61% of the Company’s share capital. At December 31, 2017, employee shareholding represents 4,61% of the Company’s share capital. TWENTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION Delegation of powers to the Board of Directors, for a period established by reference to more than one currency, with or of eighteen months, to issue, with cancellation of without a share premium, whether for valuable pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or consideration or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares securities granting access to the Company’s share capital to of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/or (ii) members of Capgemini Group employee savings plans up to a securities governed by Articles L.228-92 paragraph 1, maximum par value amount of €24 million and at a price set L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.228-94 paragraph 2 of the in accordance with the provisions of the French Labor Code. French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ Company, reserved for members of one or more employee special report and in accordance with Articles L.225-129-1, savings plans (or any other plan for whose members a share L.225-129-6, L.225-138-1 and L.228-91 et seq. of the French capital increase may be reserved on equivalent terms under Commercial Code and Articles L.3332-18 to L.3332-24 of the Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code or any French Labor Code: analogous law or regulation) implemented within a company 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of or a group of French or non-French companies within the sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, the powers scope of the consolidated or combined financial statements necessary to increase the share capital with cancellation of of the Company pursuant to Article L.3344-1 of the French pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, in Labor Code, it being further stipulated that this resolution France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees may be used to implement leveraged schemes; fit, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit 324 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 6. authorizes the Board of Directors, under the terms specified in capital increases in the event of use by the Board of this delegation, to sell shares as permitted under Directors of this delegation: Article L.3332-24 of the French Labor Code to members of a ❚ the maximum par value amount of share capital increases that Company or Group employee savings plan (or similar plan), it may be carried out under this delegation is set at €24 million being stipulated that the aggregate par value amount of shares or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit sold at a discount to members of one or more of the employee established by reference to more than one currency, savings plans covered by this resolution will count towards the ceilings mentioned in paragraph 2 of this resolution; ❚ added to this ceiling will be the par value amount of any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and 7. resolves that the Board of Directors, with the power of regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, shall have terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is full powers to implement this delegation, and in particular: necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other rights ❚ decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access, granting access to the share capital, immediately or in the future, to the share capital of the ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing Company or other companies, additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other ❚ draw up in accordance with the law a list of companies from amounts and allocating free shares during the period of which the beneficiaries indicated above may subscribe for validity of this delegation, the above ceiling will be adjusted shares or securities granting access to the share capital thus based on the ratio between the number of shares issued issued and who, where applicable, may receive free and outstanding before and after the transaction; allocations of shares or securities granting access to the 3. resolves that the issue price of the new shares or securities share capital, granting access to the share capital will be determined in ❚ decide that subscriptions may be made directly by accordance with the terms set out in Articles L.3332-18 et seq. beneficiaries belonging to a Company or Group savings plan of the French Labor Code and will be at least equal to 80% of (or similar plan), or via dedicated employee savings mutual the Reference Price (as defined below) or 70% of the funds (FCPE) or other vehicles or entities permitted under Reference Price where the lock-up period stipulated by the applicable laws and regulations, plan in application of Articles L.3332-25 and L.3332-26 of the ❚ for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and French Labor Code is ten years or more; for the purposes of conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which this paragraph the Reference Price refers to an average listed may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated price of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated and their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these market over the 20 trading days preceding the decision securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance setting the subscription opening date for members of a with applicable formalities, Company or Group employee savings plan (or similar plan); ❚ set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 4. authorizes the Board of Directors to allocate, without (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption, including consideration, to the beneficiaries indicated above, in the delivery of Company’s assets such as treasury shares or 6 addition to shares or securities granting access to the share securities already issued by the Company, as the case may capital, shares or securities granting access to the share be) attached to shares or securities granting access to share capital to be issued or already issued in full or partial capital, and in particular set the date, which may be substitution of the discount in the Reference Price and/or as retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for an employer’s contribution, it being stipulated that the dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the benefit resulting from this allocation may not exceed the completion of the share capital increase, applicable legal or regulatory limits; ❚ provide for the possibility of suspending the exercise of the 5. resolves to waive in favor of the aforementioned rights attached to shares or securities giving access to the beneficiaries the pre-emptive subscription rights of capital in accordance with the legal and regulatory provisions, shareholders to the shares and securities issued pursuant to this delegation, said shareholders also waiving, in the event ❚ set the amounts of issues to be made under this of the free allocation to such beneficiaries of shares or authorization and in particular determine the issue prices, securities granting access to the share capital, any rights to dates, time limits, terms and conditions of subscription, such shares or securities granting access to the share capital, payment, delivery and date of ranking for dividend of the including the portion of reserves, profits, or additional securities (which may be retroactive), rules for pro-rating in paid-in capital capitalized as a result of the free allocation of the event of over-subscription and any other terms and securities on the basis of this resolution; conditions of the issues, subject to prevailing legal and regulatory limits, ❚ determine and make all adjustments to take account of the impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting access to the share capital (including by means of cash adjustments), REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 325 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ in the event of the free allocation of shares or securities ❚ at its sole discretion, offset share issue costs against the granting access to the share capital, determine the nature related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums and number of shares or securities granting access to the necessary to increase the legal reserve, share capital, as well as their terms and conditions and the ❚ generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure number to be granted to each beneficiary, and determine completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and the dates, time limits, and terms and conditions of decisions and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing allocation of such shares or securities granting access to the and financial administration of securities issued by virtue of share capital subject to prevailing legal and regulatory this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached limits, and in particular choose to either wholly or partially thereto or required as a result of the share capital increases, substitute the allocation of such shares or securities granting access to the share capital for the discount in the ❚ decide to postpone performance of the share capital increase; Reference Price specified above or offset the equivalent 8. grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months as value of such shares or securities against the total amount from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; of the employer’s contribution or a combination of both 9. resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in options, the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted ❚ duly record the completion of share capital increases and by the 17th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, of May 10, 2017. TWENTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION Delegation of powers to the Board of Directors, for a period Articles L.228-92 paragraph 1, L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or of eighteen months, to issue with cancellation of L.228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time or securities granting access to the share capital in favor of at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, employees of certain non-French subsidiaries at terms and redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, to conditions comparable to those offered pursuant to the the share capital of the Company, reserved for one of the preceding resolution. following categories of beneficiary: (i) non-French Employees, (ii) employee share ownership UCITS or other vehicles, with or The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and without a legal personality, invested in shares of the majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having Company, where the holders of units or shares are read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ non-French Employees, and/or (iii) any bank or entity special report and in accordance with Articles L.225-129-1, controlled by a bank within the meaning of Article L.233-3 of L.225-138 and L.228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial Code: the French Commercial Code that has set-up at the 1. takes due note that in certain countries the legal and/or tax Company’s request a structured offer for non-French context can make it inadvisable or difficult to implement employees presenting an economic profile comparable to employee share ownership schemes directly or through a that of an employee share ownership scheme set-up pursuant mutual fund (the employees and corporate officers referred to a share capital increase performed under the preceding to in Articles L.3332-1 and L.3332-2 of the French Labor Code resolution presented to this Shareholders’ Meeting; of Capgemini Group companies whose registered offices are 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share located in one of these countries are referred to below as capital increases in the event of use by the Board of “non-French Employees”; the “Capgemini Group” comprises Directors of this delegation: the Company and the French and non-French companies related to the Company within the meaning of ❚ the maximum par value amount of share capital increases that Article L.225-180 of the French Commercial Code and may be carried out under this delegation is set at €12 million Article L.3344-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code) and that or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit the implementation in favor of certain non-French established by reference to more than one currency, it being Employees of alternative schemes to those performed stipulated that this amount will count towards the ceiling set pursuant to the 24th resolution submitted to this in paragraph 2 of the 24th resolution of this Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Meeting may be desirable; Meeting (subject to its approval) or, as the case may be, towards any ceiling stipulated by a similar resolution that may 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of supersede said resolution during the period of validity of this sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its powers to authorization, increase the share capital with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, in France or ❚ added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of any abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, in euros shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and or in any other currency or currency unit established by regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual reference to more than one currency, with or without a share terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, premium, whether for valuable consideration or without the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company (excluding access to the share capital, preference shares), and/or (ii) securities governed by 326 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 20 trading days preceding the decision setting the subscription additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other opening date for a share capital increase performed pursuant amounts and allocating free shares during the period of to the 24th resolution, less a 20% discount; validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted 7. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have the same based on the ratio between the number of shares issued and powers, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent outstanding before and after the transaction; authorized by law, as those conferred on the Board of 4. resolves to cancel pre-emptive subscription rights to the shares Directors by paragraph 7 of the 24th resolution (including the and equities that may be issued pursuant to this delegation, in power to postpone performance of the share capital favor of the aforementioned beneficiary categories; increase) and the power to draw up the list of beneficiaries 5. resolves that this delegation of powers may only be used in of the cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights within the event of the use of the delegation granted pursuant to the above defined category, and the number of shares and the 24th resolution and solely in order to achieve the securities granting access to the share capital to be objective set out in this resolution; subscribed by each beneficiary; 6. resolves that the issue price of new shares or securities 8. grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months as granting access to the share capital to be issued pursuant to from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. this delegation will be set by the Board of Directors based on 9. resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in the listed price of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted regulated market; this price will be at least equal to the by the 18th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting average listed price of the Company’s share over the of May 10, 2017. PRESENTATION OF THE 26TH RESOLUTION POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES OVERVIEW We also recommend that you confer powers to carry out the formalities required under law. TWENTY-SIXTH RESOLUTION 6 Powers to carry out formalities. The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum meeting to execute all filing, publication and other formalities and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, required under French law. authorizes the bearer of a copy or extract of the minutes of this REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 327 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.3 Summary of the financial resolutions 6.3 Summary of the financial resolutions The following table summarizes the scope, term and limits of use For a summary of the use made of the financial authorizations in of the financial resolutions presented to you above that are force on the date of the General Shareholders’ Meeting, please submitted to the approval of your General Shareholders’ refer to the section 5.1.2 of chapter 5 of this Registration Meeting. Document. Authorization Source duration and Maximum amount(1) (2) (resolution number) Purpose of the resolution expiration (in euros) 2018 GSM a) Purchase by the Company of its own shares 18 months 10% of share capital 14th under a share buyback program (November 23, 2019) 2018 GSM b) Cancellation of treasury shares 26 months 10% of share capital 15th (July 23, 2020) per 24-month period 2018 GSM c) Share capital increase by capitalizing additional 26 months €1.5 billion (par value) 16th paid-in capital, reserves, profits or any other amounts (July 23, 2020) 2018 GSM d) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or 26 months €540 million (par value) 17th securities granting access to the share capital or (July 23, 2020) €9.3 billion (issue amount) granting a right to allocation of debt instruments, with retention of PSR 2018 GSM e) Share capital increase by issuing ordinary shares 26 months €134 million (par value) 18th and/or securities granting access to the share capital (July 23, 2020) €3.1 billion (issue amount) or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments, by way of public offer with cancellation of PSR 2018 GSM f) Share capital increase by issuing ordinary shares 26 months €134 million (par value) 19th and/or securities granting access to the share capital (July 23, 2020) €3.1 billion (issue amount) or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments, by private placement, with cancellation of PSR 2018 GSM g) Setting the issue price of shares in the context 26 months €134 million (par value) 20th of a share capital increase with cancellation of PSR (July 23, 2020) €3.1 billion (issue amount) 10% of share capital 2018 GSM h) Increase of the number of shares to be issued in the 26 months Within the limit set out 21st event of a share capital increase with and without PSR (July 23, 2020) in the applicable regulations in the context of resolutions (d) to (f) (Greenshoe) (currently 15% of the initial issue) 2018 GSM i) Share capital increase by issuing ordinary shares 26 months €134 million (par value) 22th and/or securities granting access to the share capital (July 23, 2020) €3.1 billion (issue amount) in consideration for contributions in kind 10% of share capital 2018 GSM j) Grant of performance shares 18 months 1% of share capital 23th (November 23, 2019) 2018 GSM k) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or 18 months €24 million (par value)(2) 24th securities granting access to the share capital with (November 23, 2019) cancellation of PSR, to members of Group employee savings plans 2018 GSM l) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or 18 months €12 million (par value)(2) 25th securities granting access to the share capital with (November 23, 2019) cancellation of PSR, in favor of certain non-French subsidiaries Abbreviations: PSR = pre-emptive subscription rights; 2018 GSM = 2018 General Shareholders’ Meeting; (1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €540 millions and a maximum issue amount of €9,3 billion for all issues with and without PSR; a maximum par value amount €134 millions and maximum issue amount €3,1 billion for all issues without PSR; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to k) and l) are aggregated at a maximum par value amount of €24 million. 328 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” employee shareholding plan 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” employee shareholding plan This supplementary report is prepared in accordance with Articles L.225-129-5 and R.255-116 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In its seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company of May 10, 2017, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for extraordinary general meetings, granted the Board of Directors, with power of sub-delegation under the conditions provided for by law, the powers necessary for proceeding with the increase in the share capital of the Company through the issuance of shares without preferential subscription rights and reserved (i) for employees and corporate officers of the Company and of its French and foreign subsidiaries that are members of a Capgemini Group company savings plan governed by Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du travail) and (ii) for a banking institution, acting at the Company’s request for the implementation of a subscription formula proposed to employees and corporate officers of the companies related to the Company under the conditions set forth by Articles L.225-180 of the French Commercial Code and L.3344-1 of the French Labor Code and the corporate headquarters of which are located outside of France, providing an economic profile comparable to the subscription formula offered to the Group employees within the framework of the transaction carried out pursuant to the aforementioned seventeenth resolution, it being specified that the total number of shares issued on the basis of the seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions shall not exceed 6,000,000 (six million) shares. At its meeting of July 26, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company, using its power of delegation, decided on the principle of an increase of the share capital of the Company by issuing shares to beneficiaries as defined by the aforementioned seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions, approved the main features of such issuances and delegated to the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer the powers required for their implementation, notably to set the subscription dates and subscription price of the shares to be issued. On the basis of this delegation of powers, the Board of Directors, during its meeting held on September 19, 2017, has been informed by the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer that the plan shall be limited to a maximum of 3,600,000 (three million six thousand) shares. On November 15, 2017, the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, acting pursuant to this delegation of powers by the Board of Directors, fixed the subscription dates and subscription price of the shares to be issued on the basis of the above aforementioned decisions. 1. Summary of the decisions of the governing bodies of the Company and main characteristics of the transaction 6 Decision of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors, at its meeting of July 26, 2017, decided: 1) in accordance with the seventeenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, on the principle of an increase of the Company’s share capital reserved for eligible employees and corporate officers of the Company and the French and foreign subsidiaries of the Company, whether directly or indirectly held, that are members of a Capgemini Group French company savings plan governed by Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code, within the limit of a maximum number of 4,000,000 (four million) shares; that the shares issued pursuant to this decision will bear benefit entitlement as of January 1, 2017; that the subscription of the Capgemini shares can be carried out directly or via a French Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE); that employees’ subscription can be carried out through a leveraged subscription formula via a FCPE or within the framework of an equivalent subscription mechanism in order to account for the regulatory and fiscal legislation applicable in beneficiaries’ various countries of residence; in accordance with article L.225-138-1 of the French commercial Code, that the capital increase completed on the basis of this decision can only be carried out up to the limit of the number of shares subscribed by the beneficiaries. Within these limits and those set forth by the seventeenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, the Board of Directors decided to delegate the necessary powers to the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of completing the capital increase as well as that of postponing its completion. To this end, the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer has been granted all powers to set the terms and conditions of the transaction and, in particular: to set the opening and closing date of the subscription period, it being understood that the subscription period could be preceded by a reservation period for subscriptions; to set the maximum number of shares to be issued within the limit of 4,000,000 (four million) shares; to set the subscription price of the shares which, in accordance with the provisions of the French Labor Code, will be equal to the average of the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the listed prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading days preceding the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer’s decision that will set the dates of the subscription period, minus a 12.5 % discount; to set the terms and conditions for reducing subscriptions requested by beneficiaries of the reserved capital increase in the event that the total number of shares requested by these beneficiaries is higher than the maximum authorized amount, in accordance with the rules described in the documents approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF French financial market authority); to set the timeframe and the terms and conditions for payment of the new shares; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 329 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” employee shareholding plan to acknowledge the completion of the capital increase up to the limit of the shares effectively subscribed, to adopt the report to the shareholders and to modify the bylaws in accordance with the transaction; to execute the issuance of the shares thus subscribed and take useful steps to ensure their listing and financial administration services; if applicable, to deduct the costs of the capital increase from the amount of the bonuses associated therewith and withdraw the necessary sums from this amount to increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new share capital; more generally, to carry out all transactions and execute all formalities that render themselves necessary for the completion of the capital increase. 2) in accordance with the eighteenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, on the principle of an increase of the Company’s capital reserved for a banking institution acting at the Company’s request for the implementation of a subscription formula proposed to employees and corporate officers of the companies related to the Company under the conditions set forth by Articles L.225-180 of the French Commercial Code and L.3344-1 of the French Labor Code and the corporate headquarters of which are located outside of France, providing an economic profile that is comparable to the subscription formula offered to employees of the Group within the framework of the transaction carried out pursuant to paragraph 1. above, within the limit of a maximum number of 1,300,000 (one million three hundred thousand) shares; decided that the shares issued pursuant to this decision will bear benefit entitlement as of January 1, 2017; decided that the total number of shares issued pursuant to paragraphs 1. and 2. above cannot exceed 4,000,000 (four million) shares; Within these limits and those set forth by the eighteenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, the Board of Directors decided to delegate the necessary powers to the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of completing the capital increase as well as that of postponing its completion. To this end, the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer has been granted all powers to set the terms and conditions of the transaction, and, in particular: to set the subscription date and subscription price of the shares, which, in accordance with the provisions of the French Labor Code, will be equal to the average of the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the listed prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading days preceding the date of the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer’s decision that will set the opening date of the subscription to the capital increase carried out pursuant to paragraph 1. above, minus a 12.5 % discount; to set the number of shares to be issued to the banking institution to be named; to acknowledge the completion of the capital increase, to adopt the report to the shareholders and to modify the bylaws in accordance with the transaction; to execute the issuance of the shares thus subscribed and take useful steps to ensure their listing and financial administration services; if applicable, to deduct the costs of the capital increase from the amount of the bonuses associated therewith and withdraw the necessary sums from this amount to increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new share capital; more generally, to carry out all transactions and execute all formalities that render themselves necessary for the completion of the capital increase. In accordance with the delegation of powers granted by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on July 26, 2017, the Board of Directors, during its meeting held on September 19, 2017, has been informed by the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer that the plan shall be limited to a maximum of 3,600,000 (three million six thousand) shares to be issued on the basis of the seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions, adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company of May 10, 2017. Decision of the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of the Company On November 15, 2017, the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, acting pursuant to the delegation of authority by the Board of Directors: (i) set the dates of the subscription period for the shares to be issued in accordance with, respectively, the seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company of May 10, 2017 as follow : the subscription period of Capgemini shares for Group employees enrolled in a company savings plan would be open from November 16 to 19, 2017, provided that employees who made a subscription request during the reservation period could revoke such subscription request during the subscription period whose dates are thus fixed; the subscription of Capgemini shares by VALMINCO, a simplified joint stock company (société par actions simplifiée) with a share capital of €37,011.75, headquartered at 17 Cours, Valmy, 92800 Puteaux, and registered with the Trade and Companies Register of Nanterre under number 950 345 181, would be carried out on December 18, 2017, it being understood that issuance of shares to VALMINCO will be carried out on the basis of the eighteenth resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, which authorizes the capital increase of the Company in favor of a banking institution acting at the Company’s request for the implementation of a subscription formula proposed to employees and corporate officers of the companies related to the Company under the conditions set forth by Articles L.225-180 of the French Commercial Code and L.3344-1 of the French Labor Code and the corporate headquarters of which are located outside of France, providing an economic profile comparable to the subscription formula offered to Group employees within the framework of the transaction carried out pursuant to the aforementioned seventeenth resolution; 330 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” employee shareholding plan (ii) set the subscription price for the shares to be issued, in accordance with, respectively, the seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company of May 10, 2017 as follow : considering that the average of the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the CAPGEMINI share, as published on the Bloomberg CAP FP EQUITY VAP website, during the 20 stock market trading days preceding the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer’s decision of November 15, 2017, i.e. from October 18, 2017 to November 14, 2017 (inclusive), amounts to €102.16 (the “Reference Price”); the subscription price of shares reserved for Group employees enrolled in a company savings plan is set at €89.39 corresponding, in accordance with the seventeenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, and the decision of the Board of Directors dated July 26, 2017, to the Reference Price minus a 12.5% discount and rounded down to the nearest hundredth of a euro ; the subscription price of shares reserved for VALMINCO is set at €89.39, corresponding, in accordance with the eighteenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 10, 2017, and the decision of the Board of Directors dated July 26, 2017, to the Reference Price minus a 12.5% discount and rounded down to the nearest hundredth of a euro; 2. Further details regarding the transaction Framework of the transaction In a press release dated September 20, 2017, the Company specified that this fourth international share ownership plan, proposed to approximately 97% of the employees of the Group, aims to associate all employees to the Capgemini development and performance. The shares were subscribed to either directly or through a FCPE, in accordance with applicable regulatory and/or tax legislation in the various countries of residence of the beneficiaries of the capital increase. Employees subscribed to Capgemini shares within the framework of a unique subscription formula called leveraged and guaranteed, allowing the employees to benefit from a guarantee on their investments made into this plan. In certain countries, employees will be allocated Stock Appreciation Rights (“SAR”) by their employer, the amount of which will be indexed in accordance with a formula similar to the one offered under the leveraged formula; a specific subscription formula was also proposed in the United States of America to take into account the applicable regulatory and tax legislation. Subscribers to the offer shall hold either the shares subscribed to directly, or the corresponding units of the FCPEs, for a five-year period, except in the event of an authorized early exit. Other characteristics of the transaction The reservation period of the shares (at an unknown price), during which the employees and corporate officers of the Capgemini Group could request to subscribe, was opened from September 25 to October 15, 2017. 6 A subscription period, during which subscription requests made during the reservation period could be withdrawn, was opened from November 16 to 19, 2017 (inclusive), after communication to the beneficiaries of the subscription price established by the decision of the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer dated November 15, 2017. Having taken into account all subscription requests, a reduction of the subscription requests has been made. Thus, all of the shares that may be issued within the framework of the transaction, or 3,600,000 (three million six thousand) shares will be subscribed to. The number of subscribers equaled to 28,782 employees, or 15.4% of the eligible population, and similarly to the previous ESOP plans, the transaction was oversubscribed to in the amount of 124%. The newly-issued shares will be fully assimilated with the existing ordinary shares comprising Capgemini’s share capital. These shares will bear benefit entitlement as of January 1, 2017. The request to list the newly-issued Capgemini shares to trading on the same line of Euronext Paris (ISIN code: FR0000125338) as the existing shares will be made as soon as possible following the completion of the capital increase scheduled to take place on December 18, 2017. 3. Impact of the issuance of 3,600,000 shares on the stake of holders of shares and securities, their shareholders’ equity per share and the theoretical impact on the market value of the share price. 3.1 Impact on shareholders’ stake in the share capital of the Company For illustrative purposes, on the basis of the share capital of the Company at June 30, 2017, or 169,149,580 shares, the impact of the issuance of new shares on the stake of a shareholder holding 1% of the share capital of the Company prior to, and not subscribing to, the issuance would be as follows: Shareholder stake (in %) Non-diluted basis Diluted basis (1) Before issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 1% 0.98 % After issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 0.98 % 0.96 % (1) Calculations are made assuming the delivery of the 3,544,400 performance shares granted on June 30, 2017 (assuming that all the performance conditions will be satisfied). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 331 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.4 Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “ESOP 2017” employee shareholding plan 3.2 Impact of the issuance on the consolidated shareholders’ equity per share For illustrative purposes, the impact of the issuance on the consolidated shareholders’ equity attributable to owners of the Company per share (calculations based on consolidated shareholders’ equity attributable to owners of the Company at June 30, 2017, and the number of shares comprising the share capital at June 30, 2017 after deduction of treasury shares) would be as follows: Consolidated shareholders’ equity per share (in euros) Non-diluted basis Diluted basis (1) Before issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 40.55 euros 39.71 euros After issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 41.57 euros 40.73 euros (1) Calculations are made assuming the delivery of the 3,544,400 performance shares granted on June 30, 2017 (assuming that all the performance conditions will be satisfied). 3.3 Impact of the issuance on the statutory shareholders’ equity per share For illustrative purposes, the impact of the issuance on the statutory shareholders’ equity per share of Capgemini SE (calculations based on statutory shareholders’ equity attributable to owners of Capgemini SE at June 30, 2017, and the number of shares comprising the share capital at June 30, 2017 after deduction of treasury shares) would be as follows: Statutory shareholders’ equity per share (in euros) Non-diluted basis Diluted basis (1) Before issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 68.39 euros 66.98 euros After issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 68.82 euros 67.44 euros (1) Calculations are made assuming the delivery of the 3,544,400 performance shares granted on June 30, 2017 (assuming that all the performance conditions will be satisfied).). 3.4 Theoretical impact on the stock market value of the Capgemini share The theoretical impact of the issuance of 3,600,000 shares at the issuance price on the stock market valuation of the Capgemini share is calculated as follows: Share price before the transaction = the average of the listed closing prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading days preceding the fixing of the issuance price (calculated as the average of the closing share price between October 18 and November 14, 2017, inclusive). This price amounts to 102.12 euros. Theoretical share price after the transaction = ((the average of the listed closing prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading days preceding the fixing of the issuance price x the number of shares before the transaction) + (the issuance price x the number of newly-issued shares)) / (the number of shares before the transaction + the number of newly-issued shares). The issuance price of the reserved capital increase is set at 89.39 euros. Accounting for these assumptions, the theoretical post-transaction stock market value of the Capgemini share amounts to 101.85 euros. It is recalled that this theoretical approach is provided for illustrative purposes and does not predict future evolutions in the share price. This supplementary report and the Statutory Auditors’ report may be consulted by shareholders at the Company’s head office and will be brought to the attention of shareholders at the next Shareholders’ Meeting. Signed in Paris, on December 6, 2017. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Paul Hermelin 332 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CAPITAL DECREASE Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 – Fifteenth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE and in accordance with Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to a capital decrease by cancelation of shares bought back by the Company, we hereby report to you on our assessment of the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital decrease. The Board of Directors proposes that you grant it, for a 26-month period commencing on the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, full powers to cancel the shares acquired under the Company’s share buyback program pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned article, provided that the aggregate number of shares canceled in any given 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. Those standards require that we ensure that the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital decrease, which is not considered to affect shareholder equality, comply with the applicable legal provisions. We have no matters to report on the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital decrease. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 23, 2018 Paris-La-Défense, March 23, 2018 6 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 333 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES WITH OR WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 – Seventeenth to Twenty-second resolutions This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders,  In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE and in accordance with Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposed delegations of authority to the Board of Directors to issue shares and/or securities, which are submitted to you for your approval. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you: ❚ delegate to the Board, for a 26-month period, the authority to carry out the following transactions and set the final terms and conditions of the related issues and, if necessary, to waive your pre-emptive subscription rights for: ❚ the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, with pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders (seventeenth resolution); ❚ the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, by way of a public offer, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders (eighteenth resolution), it being specified that these securities may be issued as payment for shares tendered in a public exchange offer in accordance with the conditions set forth by Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial Code; ❚ the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, by way of a public offer pursuant to paragraph II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier) and within the limit of 20% of the share capital per year (nineteenth resolution); it being specified, for all securities to be issued pursuant to the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth resolutions, that:  in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 228-93 of the French Commercial Code, the securities to be issued can give access to shares to be issued by any company in which the Company holds directly or indirectly more than half of the share capital;  in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article L. 2 28-93 of the French Commercial Code, the Company’s securities can give access to the existing shares or grant rights to the allocation of the debt instruments of any company in which the Company holds directly or indirectly more than half of the share capital;  in accordance with Article L. 228-94 of the French Commercial Code, the Company’s securities can give access to the existing shares or grant rights to the allocation of the debt instruments of any company in which the Company does not directly or indirectly hold more than half of the share capital;  authorize the Board, pursuant to the twentieth resolution and within the framework of the delegation of authority covered in the eighteenth and nineteenth resolutions, to set the issue price, within the annual legal limit of 10% of the share capital;  delegate to the Board, for a 26-month period, all powers necessary to issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, to remunerate contributions in kind to the Company consisting of shares or securities giving access to share capital, within the limit of 10% of the share capital (twenty-second resolution). According to the seventeenth resolution, the aggregate nominal amount of the share capital increases that may be carried out, either immediately or in the future, pursuant to the seventeenth to twenty-second resolutions may not exceed €540 million, it being specified that the aggregate nominal amount of the share capital increases that may be carried out in respect of the eighteenth, nineteenth and twenty-second resolutions may not exceed €134 million. According to the seventeenth resolution, the aggregate nominal amount of debt instruments that may be issued in respect of the seventeenth to twenty-second resolutions may not exceed €9.3 billion, it being specified that the aggregate nominal amount of debt instruments increases that may be carried out in respect of the eighteenth, nineteenth and twenty-second resolutions may not exceed €3.1 billion. These limits take into account the additional securities to be issued in accordance with Article L. 225-135-1 of the French Commercial Code, in the event the shareholders adopt the twenty-first resolution. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to these transactions, presented in this report. 334 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of any proposed issues, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report in respect of the eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth resolutions. In addition, as this report does not stipulate the methods used to set the issue price in the event that securities are issued pursuant to the implementation of the seventeenth and twenty-second resolutions, we do not express an opinion on the components used to calculate the issue price. Since the final terms and conditions of the share capital increase have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights presented in the eighteenth and nineteenth resolutions. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board of Directors uses its delegations of authority to issue securities giving access to the share capital or the allocation of debt instruments, to issue securities giving access to shares to be issued or to issue shares without pre-emptive subscription rights. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 23, 2018 Paris-La-Défense, March 23, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner 6 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 335 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT FREE SHARES (EXISTING OR TO BE ISSUED) TO EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 – Twenty-third resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE and in accordance with Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present our report on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, which is submitted to you for your approval. The Board of Directors’ report states that the grant of existing shares or shares to be issued to employees and corporate officers of Capgemini SE and its French and foreign subsidiaries, will be subject to the achievement of performance targets and limited to a maximum number of shares not exceeding 1% of the share capital. It also states that the grant of shares to corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.E. will be limited to 10% of the aforementioned amount. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to grant free existing shares or shares to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report on the proposed transaction. It is our responsibility to provide you with our observations, if any, in respect of the information provided to you on the proposed transaction. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying in particular that the proposed terms and conditions described in the Board of Directors’ report comply with the applicable legal provisions. We have no matters to report on the information provided in the Board of Directors’ report, with respect to the proposed authorization to grant free shares. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 23, 2018 Paris-La-Défense, March 23, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner 336 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES OR SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO THE SHARE CAPITAL RESERVED FOR MEMBERS OF AN EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2018 – Twenty-fourth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE and in accordance with Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposal to increase share capital by issuing ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the share capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for members of a Capgemini Group employee savings plan, subject to a maximum nominal amount of €24 million, which is submitted to you for your approval. This share capital increase is submitted to you for your approval pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-129-6 of the French Commercial Code and Articles L. 3332-18 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du travail). On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for a 18-month period, to set the terms and conditions of this transaction and that you waive your pre-emptive subscription rights to the ordinary shares and securities to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to this issue, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed share capital increase, we have no matters to report 6 as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report. Since the final terms and conditions of the share capital increase have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report when the Board of Directors uses this delegation. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 23, 2018 Paris-La-Défense, March 23, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 337 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 23, 2018 6.5 Statutory auditor's reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO THE SHARE CAPITAL RESERVED FOR EMPLOYEES OF NON-FRENCH SUBSIDIARIES Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2017 – Twenty-fifth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Capgemini SE and in accordance with Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposal to increase share capital by issuing ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the share capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for employees of certain non-French subsidiaries of the Capgemini Group, subject to a maximum nominal amount of €24 million that will be deducted from the overall limit as defined in the nineteenth resolution, which is submitted to you for your approval. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to set the terms and conditions of this transaction and that you waive your pre-emptive subscription rights to the ordinary shares and securities to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to this issue, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed share capital increase, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report. Since the final terms and conditions of the share capital increase have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report when the Board of Directors uses this delegation. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 23, 2018 Paris-La-Défense, March 23, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Division of KPMG S.A. Partner Partner Frédéric Quélin Partner 338 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 7 Additional information 7.1 Legal information 340 7.2 Group Management structure 344 7.1.1 Corporate name and head office 340 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law 340 7.3 Historical Financial Information 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term 340 for 2015 and 2016 345 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) 340 7.1.5 Incorporation details 341 7.4 Persons responsible 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents 341 for the information 346 7.1.7 Fiscal year 341 7.4.1 Person responsible for financial information 346 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of profits 341 7.4.2 Persons responsible for the audit 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings 341 of the financial statements 346 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds 342 7.4.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document 347 7.1.11 Shareholder identification 342 7.1.12 Voting rights 342 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights 342 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares 342 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control 342 7.1.16 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 342 7.1.17 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies 343 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 339 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.1 Corporate name and head office Corporate name: Capgemini Head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, France. To align its corporate name with that of the Group, the Tel.: +33(0) 1 47 54 50 00 Company’s name was changed from “Cap Gemini” to “Capgemini” on its conversion to a European company (Societas Europaea), by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law The Company was initially incorporated as a société anonyme The Company is governed by prevailing French and European (joint stock company) and converted to a European company legislative and regulatory provisions and the provisions of its (Societas Europaea, SE) by decision of the Extraordinary bylaws. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, to enable the legal form to better reflect the Group’s international and European outlook. 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris stock exchange of The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from Cap Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, the date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Cap Gemini, grouping together all investments representing the Registry. It may be wound up in advance or have its term operating activities of the Group was incorporated on extended by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. September 17, 1984. This company was registered with the Companies & Trade Registry on October 4, 1984. 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France and developed internally, the integration of systems incorporating abroad in managing and developing their businesses by hardware, communication systems, customized software, providing them with the benefit of its knowledge of their software packages and other components. The Company also industry, its knowhow in the area of business process supports clients’ IT projects by providing consulting, project engineering and re-engineering, and its expertise in the area of management, training and assistance services. information technologies. Outsourcing To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources on clients, either directly, or through its subsidiaries or affiliates (1), their behalf. Where requested by clients, the Company may one or more of the following activities on a stand-alone or perform all or part of this service using its own hardware, integrated basis: telecommunications systems and other equipment. The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to Management consulting its clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership Working closely with clients, the Company provides change with clients within a structure conducting all or some of these management assistance to companies by helping them to activities. redefine or redirect their strategy, change their product and service lines, re-engineer their structures and business processes, In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may decide restore staff motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, to: the Company uses all the possibilities offered by the latest  create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital information technologies whenever appropriate. of other companies and manage their business in exchange for a fee. Management services include the provision of Information systems development technical, marketing, legal and financial assistance, promotion of a consistent image, organization of financial structures, The Company designs and installs information systems. Its assistance in negotiations to help these companies win new services include the development of customized software, the contracts, training, research and development support, etc.; installation of software applications available on the market or (1) Including Local Professional Services under the Sogeti tradename, representing the Group’s fourth business. 340 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information  invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying out advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on any and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or behalf of subsidiaries and affiliates; financial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the  obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and above purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is likely manufacturing processes and sell, contribute or license any to facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of these purposes. such patents and processes. 7.1.5 Incorporation details The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry (Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés) under number 330 703 844. Its APE business identifier is 7010Z. 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents Documents relating to the Company, including the bylaws, the financial statements, the reports of the Board of Directors (or the Management Board, the Directoire, from May 24, 1996 through May 23, 2000) to the Shareholders’ Meetings, and the Statutory Auditors’ reports are available for consultation at the Company’s head office at 11, rue de Tilsitt 75017 Paris. 7.1.7 Fiscal year The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31. 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of profits The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the related decide on the appropriation of distributable income, as defined dividends will be paid in the form of new shares credited as fully by French company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting paid, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The may decide to appropriate all or part of distributable income to above provisions also apply to the distribution of interim revenue reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to dividends, subject to compliance with French company law. distribute all or part of the amount to shareholders. In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be with French company law. 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings The right to participate at Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by convening the meeting, shareholders voting by proxy or 7 the registration of shares in the name of the shareholder (or of remotely may participate in voting using any telecommunication the intermediary acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside or teletransmission means enabling their identification, including France) in the Company’s share register or in the register of bearer the internet, in accordance with the conditions set out in shares held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such applicable regulations at the time of use. Where an electronic registration must be recorded at 12:00 A.M. (Paris time) on the form is submitted, the shareholder’s signature may take the second working day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting and any form of a secure signature or a reliable identification procedure related notices must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in guaranteeing the link with the related action and potentially the notice of meeting. In the case of bearer shares, the authorized consisting of a user identification and password. Where intermediary must provide a participation certificate. applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors shall be communicated in the notice of meeting published in BALO Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). person, by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms and conditions set by applicable regulations. Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish to remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. participate in a meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may not alter their method of participation. However, attendance at a Shareholders’ Meetings deliberate under the conditions meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast by provided by law. Pursuant to provisions governing European proxy or remotely. companies, majority is calculated based on the number of “votes cast”, which does not include votes attaching to shares where To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must be the shareholder has not taken part in the vote, has abstained, or received by the Company at least three days prior to the date of has returned a blank or spoiled ballot paper. the meeting. If the Board of Directors so decides when REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 341 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds The fifteenth resolution adopted by the Extraordinary holdings representing at least 5% of the Company’s share capital Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 amended the provisions or voting rights, the undisclosed shares will be stripped of voting applicable to disclosure thresholds per the bylaws and Article 10 rights. This sanction will apply for all Shareholders’ Meetings for of the bylaws accordingly. a period of two years from the date on which the failure to disclose is rectified. This request and the decision of the Going forward, only shareholders holding more than 5% of the Shareholders’ Meeting must be recorded in the minutes of the Company’s capital or voting rights are required to report to the Shareholders’ Meeting. Company, within a period of four stock market days, the crossing, through an increase or a decrease, of each threshold of When calculating these “thresholds per the bylaws” the same 1% of capital or voting rights, from this lower threshold of 5% to instances where shares and voting rights held by third parties are the threshold triggering a mandatory public offer in accordance deemed equivalent to shares and voting rights held by the with prevailing regulations. shareholder subject to legal disclosure requirements are applicable. In the event of failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the request of one or several shareholders with combined 7.1.11 Shareholder identification The Company is authorized to obtain details of identifiable an individual or the name, address and date of registration for a holders of bearer shares. company, of any holders of shares and securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to shares carrying voting rights at The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company may also obtain details of a new Article to the Company’s bylaws according to which the how many shares are held by each shareholder and any Company may request from the share transaction clearing applicable restrictions on these shares. organization, the name, address, nationality and year of birth for 7.1.12 Voting rights Following the decision of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting two years by the same shareholder and bonus registered shares of May 6, 2015 in its tenth resolution not to apply the provisions granted in respect of registered shares held for at least of Article L.225-123 of the French Commercial Code regarding two years in the event of a share capital increase by double voting rights, each share carries entitlement to one vote. capitalization of reserves, profits of additional paid-in capital. This includes fully-paid shares held in registered form for at least 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are subject to compliance with French company law alone, as the bylaws do not contain any specific provisions in this respect. 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares In addition to the voting right conferred by law, each share No preferential rights are attached to any specific class of shares confers entitlement to a portion of the profits and any or category of shareholder. liquidation surplus, in direct proportion to the number and par value of outstanding shares. 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control Not applicable. 7.1.16 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid No factors are subject to the provisions of Article L.225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code. 342 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information 7.1.17 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies Appointment of directors and duration of terms Age limit for the Chairman of the Board of office of Directors The Company has a Board of Directors comprised of a minimum The age limit for the exercise of the duties of Chairman of the of three and a maximum of eighteen members, who must be Board of Directors is as follow: individuals. Directors are appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for  seventy (70) years of age when he/she also holds the position a period of four years. Directors, other than directors of Chief Executive Officer; and representing employees or employee shareholders are appointed or reappointed on a rolling basis to ensure the  seventy-nine (79) years of age when he/she does not hold the staggered renewal of terms of office in as equal fractions as position of Chief Executive Officer. possible. Exceptionally, and solely for the purposes of this rolling In both cases, the term of office expires at the end of the first renewal, the General Shareholders’ Meeting may appoint one or Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following the Chairman’s birthday. more directors for a term of one, two or three years. Where the functions of Chairman and those of Chief Executive In addition, a director representing employee shareholders is Officer are separated, the functions of Chief Executive Officer also appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four expire the day of the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting years when, at the end of a fiscal year, the percentage of share following his/her seventieth birthday. capital held by employees of the Company and companies related to it within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the Minimum investment by directors in the share French Commercial Code, represents over 3% of the Company‘s capital of the Company share capital. The director representing employee shareholders Pursuant to Article 11.2 of the bylaws, each director must hold at is elected by Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting from a choice of least one thousand (1,000) Company shares throughout their two candidates nominated in accordance with the provisions of term of office. the law and the bylaws. This obligation to hold shares is not applicable to directors Pursuant to employee representation requirements on the representing employee shareholders and directors representing Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the employees. Rebsamen Law of August 17, 2015, the Board of Directors also includes two directors representing employees, appointed for a Majority rules within the Board of Directors period of four years as follows: Decision are taken in accordance with quorum and majority rules provided by law, except for the decision regarding the  a director representing employees appointed by the union two possible methods for the Company’s General Management. body which obtained the most votes at the first round of the Where voting is tied, the Chairman of the Company has the elections referred to in Articles L.2122-1 and L.2122-4 of the casting vote. French Labor Code, organized by the Company and direct or indirect subsidiaries whose registered office is located in General management France; The General Management of the Company is assumed by either  a second director appointed by the European Group Council the Chairman of the Board of Directors (who therefore holds the (known as the International Works Council in title of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), or by another Capgemini Group). individual appointed by the Board of Directors, who holds the The director representing employee shareholders and the title of Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors chooses directors representing employees are not taken into account in between these two possible methods for the Company’s General 7 determining the maximum number of directors pursuant to Management, voting with a two-thirds majority of all directors. Article L.225-17 of the French Commercial Code. On April 4, 2012, at the recommendation of the Chairman at the Age limit for directors time, Mr. Serge Kampf, the Board of Directors decided to regroup the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Article 11.4 of the bylaws, the number of directors and appointed the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Paul Hermelin, to over seventy-five (75) years of age at the end of each the position of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the Company financial statements, may not exceed one-third (rounded up to the Messrs. Thierry Delaporte and Aiman Ezzat were appointed Chief nearest whole number where appropriate) of the total number Operating Officers with effect from January 1, 2018. of directors in office. For more information, please refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. Charter and Board Special Committees Please refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 343 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.2 Group Management structure 7.2 Group Management structure The Group management structure comprises: ■ an Office of the CEO (OCEO) with 3 members: Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thierry Delaporte Chief Operating Officer Aiman Ezzat Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer ■ a Group Executive Board (GEB) comprising the OCEO and 4 additional members: Anirban Bose Financial Services Hubert Giraud People Management and Transformation Patrick Nicolet Chief Technology Officer Olivier Sevillia Application Services Two(1), Business Services and Global Accounts Management (1) Application Services Two: United Kingdom, France, Benelux, Nordic Countries, Germany, Central Europe, South Europe. ■ a Group Executive Committee comprising the GEB and 15 additional members: Jean-Philippe Bol Cloud Infrastructure Services Director Jean Coumaros Head of Transformation André Cichowlas Production / methods and support Director Lanny Cohen Chief Innovation Officer Pierre-Yves Cros Strategy and Development Director Cyril Garcia Consulting and Digital Services Director Christine Hodgson Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility Director and UK coordination large accounts. Aruna Jayanthi Business Services Director Srinivas Kandula India Operations Director Jean-Baptiste Massignon General Secretary John Mullen Application Services for North America Director Virginie Régis Marketing and Communications Director Luc-François Salvador Application Services Asia-Pacific Director Rosemary Stark Global Sales Director Hans Van Waayenburg Sogeti Director 344 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.3 Historical Financial Information for 2015 and 2016 7.3 Historical Financial Information for 2015 and 2016 In accordance with Article 28 of European Regulation no. 809/2004 2. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2015: of April 29, 2004, the following information is incorporated by ❚ the Management Report, consolidated financial statements reference in this Registration Document: and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated 1. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2016: financial statements, set out in the Registration Document ❚ the Management Report, consolidated financial statements filed on April 6, 2016 under no. D.16-0291 (pages 302 to 303 and 130 to 195, respectively); and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, set out in the Registration Document ❚ the parent company financial statements of Capgemini SE filed on March 17, 2017 under no. D.17-0184 (pages 327 (formerly Cap Gemini S.A.) and the Statutory Auditors’ report to 328 and 162 to 231, respectively); on the parent company financial statements set out in the ❚ the parent company financial statements of Capgemini SE Registration Document filed on April 6, 2016 under no. D.16-0291 (pages 196 to 219); (formerly Cap Gemini S.A.) and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements set out in the ❚ the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated Registration Document filed on March 17, 2017 under agreements and commitments, set out in the Registration no. D.17-0184 (pages 232 to 253); Document filed on April 6, 2016 under no. D.16-0291 ❚ the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated (pages 220 to 222). agreements and commitments, set out in the Registration Copies of the Registration Document are available from Document filed on March 17, 2017 under no. D.17-0184 Capgemini SE, 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate (page 254). website at http:// investors.capgemini.com, and on the website of the AMF at www.amf-france.org. 7 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 345 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 7.4.1 Person responsible for financial information AIMAN EZZAT Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 PARIS Tel.: (+33)0 1 47 54 50 00 7.4.2 Persons responsible for the audit of the financial statements Principal Statutory Auditors Substitute Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mr. Jean-Christophe GEORGHIOU Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, de Versailles. Substitute for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. represented by Ms. Françoise Garnier and Mr. Richard Béjot Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 1996. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ KPMG Audit I.S. SAS Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta, CS 6055, 92066 Paris La Défense Cedex, KPMG S.A. Substitute for KPMG S.A., Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. de Versailles. Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta, CS 6055, Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 92066 Paris La Défense Cedex, represented by Mr. Frédéric Quélin First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 346 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 7.4.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements for 2017 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the information provided in the Management Report listed in chapter 8, section 8.3 gives a fair description of the material events, results and financial position of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the whole of the Registration Document and examined the information in respect of the financial position and the historical accounts contained therein. The statement from the Statutory Auditors is not qualified and does not contain any observations.” Paris, March 23, 2018 Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 7 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 347 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 348 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 8 Cross-reference table 8.1 Information required under Commission 8.2 Cross-reference table for the Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 350 Annual Financial Report 352 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report 353 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 349 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 Page 1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 346 and 347 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2 and 346 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3 4 RISK FACTORS 107 to 116, 124, 125, 159 and 160 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER History of the Company Legal and commercial name of the issuer 340 Place of registration and registration number of the issuer 341 Date of incorporation and length of life of the issuer 340 Domicile and legal form of the issuer, legislation under which the issuer operates, its 340 country of incorporation, and the address and telephone number of its registered office Important events in the development of the issuer's business 8 to 9 and 175 to 176 Investments 29, 209 to 212 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Principal activities 10 to 14 Principal markets 18 to 20 and 189 to 192 7 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Brief description of the group and position of the issuer 16 and 17 List of significant subsidiaries 239 and 240 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Material property, plant and equipment 14 Environmental issues that may affect the issuer's use of property, plant and equipment 150 to 152 9 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 172 to 178 and 247 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES Information concerning capital resources 199 to 209, 249 and 278 to 282 Cash flows 182 and 225 to 227 Information on the borrowing requirements and funding structure of the issuer 220 to 225 and 237 Restrictions on the use of capital resources N/A Explanation of funding sources 22 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES N/A 12 TREND INFORMATION 178 13 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES N/A 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES 22, 33 to 84 and 343 to 344 AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 15 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 78, 85 to 102 and 238 16 BOARD PRACTICES Terms of office members of administrative, management or supervisory bodies 46 to 60 Information about members of the administrative, management or supervisory 43, 81, 99 and 238 bodies' service contracts with the issuer Information about the issuer's audit committee and remuneration committee 72 to 74 Statement on corporate governance 32 and 63 N/A: not applicable 350 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 Page 17 EMPLOYEES Number of employees 129 to 132, 175 and 236 Employee shareholdings and stock options 100 to 102, 199 to 209, 256 to 261 and 281 to 282 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS Identification of major shareholders 283 and 286 Existence of different voting rights 286 and 342 Control of the issuer 287 Arrangements, the operation of which may result in a change in control of the issuer 287 and 342 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 16, 42 to 43 and 238 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES Historical financial information 3, 275 and 345 Financial statements 179 to 240 and 250 to 268 Auditing of historical annual financial information 242 to 246, 270 to 272 and 347 Dividend policy 248, 285 and 341 Legal proceedings and arbitration 144 and 235 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share capital Amount of issued capital 278 Shares not representing capital 281 Shares held by the issuer 286 Convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants 281 Terms of any acquisition rights and/or obligations over authorized but unissued capital or N/A an undertaking to increase the capital Information about any capital of any member of the group which is under option or N/A agreed conditionally or unconditionally to be put under option History of share capital 278 Incorporating document and Bylaws Issuer’s objects and purposes 340 Summary of any provisions of the issuer's articles of association, statutes, charter or 343 bylaws with respect to the members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies Description of the rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to each class of the existing shares 342 Description of what action is necessary to change the rights of shareholders 342 Description of the conditions governing the manner in which annual general meetings 341 and extraordinary general meetings of shareholders are called 8 Description of any provision that would have an effect of delaying, deferring or 342 preventing a change in control of the issuer Indication of the articles of association, statutes, charter or bylaw provisions, if any, 342 governing the ownership threshold above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed Description of the conditions governing changes in the capital, where such conditions are 342 more stringent than is required by law 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS N/A 23 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND N/A DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST 24 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 341 25 INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 269 N/A : not applicable REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 351 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.2 Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report 8.2 Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report In order to assist readers of this Registration document, the the article L.451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code cross-reference table, hereafter, enables to identify the and article 222-3 on the French financial markets authority’s information which constitutes the Annual Financial Report that general regulations. must be published by the listed companies in accordance with Document required Pages 1 Company annual financial statements 250 to 269 2 Consolidated financial statements 179 to 241 Refer to the cross-reference table for the Management Report on pages 3 Management Report (within the meaning of the French Commercial Code) 353 to 354 4 Declaration by the person responsible for the annual financial report 346 5 Statutory auditors’ report on the Company financial statements 270 6 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 242 352 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report Information required Pages Situation and activity of the Group Analysis of changes in the business, results and the financial position of the Company and the Group 172 to 178 and 247 to 249 Key performance indicators 3, 6 and 7 Major events between the year end and the date of preparation of the Management Report 238 and 268 Developments and outlook for the future 178 Research and development N/A Expenses and charges stipulated in Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code N/A Supplier settlement periods 247 Acquisitions of investments or controlling interests during the fiscal year in companies whose 188 registered office is located in France Subsidiaries and investments 239-269 Description of the main risks 107 to 116 Financial risks due to climate change 159 Internal control and risk management procedures 103 to 117 implemented by the Company Report of the Board of Directors on corporate governance Organization of group management activities 34 to 35 List of all term of offices and duties held in any company by each corporate officer 45 to 60 during the last fiscal year Composition, preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors 36 to 44, 62 to 77 Limits brought by the Board of Directors 64 on Chief Executive Officer's powers Reference to a Code of corporate governance 32 and 63 and application of the principle comply or explain 2017 compensation of the Corporate Officers 93 to 99 Executive Corporate Officers compensation policy 85 to 92 Commitments of any kind made by the Company for the benefit of its Executive Corporate Officers 43 to 44 Agreements between a corporate officer or a major shareholder and a subsidiary 43 to 44 Specific conditions governing shareholders' attendance at the Annual General meeting 341 Summary table of delegations of authority currently in force granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting 279 and 280 relating to an increase in capital 8 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 342 Information on the share capital Structure, change in Company share capital and threshold notifications 249, 278, 283, 286 to 287 Employee shareholding 281 to 282 Summary of transactions carried out by members of the Board of Directors 61 and other senior managers and related persons in the Company’s shares Buyback by the Company of its own shares 288 to 289 Information on share subscription options granted to Executive Corporate Officers and employees 86, 87, 89, 93 to 96, 100 to 102, 200, 256, 281 to 282 Information on free share grants to Executive Corporate Officers and employees 86, 87, 89, 93 to 96, 100 to 102, 200 to 208, 256 to 261, 281 to 282 Dividends and other revenue distributed during the last three fiscal years 248, 285 N/A: not applicable REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 353 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report Information required Pages Corporate Social Responsibility HR, social, and environmental information 120 to 162 Key environmental and social indicators 163 to 166 Vigilance plan 124 to 125 Additional information Table of the Company results over the past five fiscal years 275 Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on issuance of shares under the Group Employee 329 to 332 shareholding plan 354 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI NOTES Notes REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI 355 NOTES 356 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 — CAPGEMINI — Connect with us Discover the digital version of our 2017 reports: reports.capgemini.com/2017/en ANNUAL REPORT INTEGRATED REPORT REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE MATTER, RESULTS COUNT. PEOPLE MATTER, RESULTS COUNT. PEOPLE MATTER, RESULTS COUNT. The Annual Report highlights our The Integrated Report describes The Registration Document supplies ambition and strategy, features how the Group's strategy, financial analysts, institutional investors the main activities of the year, governance, and organization and individual shareholders with and provides interviews and key create lasting value for Capgemini complete legal, business, financial, updates across areas of business. and its stakeholders. and accounting information. More resources Business: capgemini.com Financial: investors.capgemini.com Careers: capgemini.com/careers Insights & News: capgemini.com/insights-and-news CSR: capgemini.com/corporate-responsibility www.capgemini.com
