Pfizer 2017 Annual Review The Power of Science 2017 Pfizer Annual Review CEO Letter 3 Our Business, Our Purpose 10 Performance 10 Understanding the External Environment 18 Delivering Value through our Global Businesses 28 Global Businesses – PEH 30 Global Businesses – PIH 35 Sustainable Development Goals 46 Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 52 Our Culture 59 Community Health 70 Access to Medicines 78 Board of Directors 89 Executive Leadership Team 96 Our Innovation 107 Biosimilars 107 Anti-Infectives 110 Oncology 114 Rare Disease 123 Vaccines 127 Pipeline 133 Clinical Trials 135 Our Sustainable Policies & Practices 137 Governance & Ethics 137 Environment, Health & Safety 140 Stakeholder Engagement 146 About this Review 148 Corporate and Shareholder Information 151 Global Reporting Frameworks 154 2017 Annual Review 2 CEO Letter 2017: Building on Our Strengths In 2017, we continued to drive growth in many of our anchor brands, received a record number of product approvals, made significant advances in our R&D pipeline, and further strengthened our hallmark ownership culture. To Our Shareholders: Every day, more than 90,000 Pfizer colleagues come to work with a singular purpose: to innovate to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. This unwavering focus on patients is at the core of who we are as a company. It drives the discovery of life-changing innovations. It fuels our passion for improving global health. It encourages collaboration, thoughtful risk-taking and diversity of thought. And in 2017, it enabled us to build on our already formidable strengths – world-class science, industry-leading products, prudent capital allocation, and our unique OWNIT! culture – to deliver another strong year for our company and position us to capitalize on exciting new growth opportunities in 2018 and beyond. Our Global Footprint (as of December 31, 2017) >90,000 >125 58 employees countries where we sell our manufacturing sites worldwide products 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 3 Strong Fundamentals Drove Solid Financial Performance Despite an approximately $3.2 billion negative revenue impact due to the loss of exclusivity of certain brands and the divestment of Hospira Infusion Systems, we reported flat operational revenue for 2017 thanks to growth in many of the biggest selling medicines in our portfolio, including Ibrance, Eliquis and Xeljanz – all of which currently have market-leading positions and many years of patent protection remaining. We saw continued growth in emerging markets in 2017, which was up 11 percent operationally compared with the previous year, and in our biosimilars business, which grew 66 percent operationally. We remain the No. 1 biosimilars company globally and have taken steps to fortify that leadership, advancing six biosimilar pipeline products during the year through various regulatory and data milestones. We expanded our portfolios for sterile injectables (28 product launches in 2017) and anti-infectives (launching Zavicefta in more than 15 countries and acquiring the rights to Cresemba in Europe, China and APAC). We also have worked diligently toward remediating issues in the legacy-Hospira manufacturing plants and reducing the related product shortages. Harnessing the Power of Science to Create Value One of our most important accomplishments in 2017 was the continued strengthening of our R&D pipeline, which today is as strong as it’s ever been. We have sharpened our focus; we are making better, quicker decisions; and we are accelerating the time it takes to get newly approved products in the hands of patients. We advanced 43 assets in our pipeline and received 10 approvals from the FDA – significantly more than we had achieved in any year in the past decade. Over the next five years, we see the potential for approximately 25-30 approvals, of which up to 15 have the potential to be blockbusters – subject to some expected attrition. This presents an unprecedented opportunity to have a life-changing impact on a growing number of patients while creating enhanced value for all of our stakeholders. WATCH IAN C. READ EXPLAIN IMPERATIVE 1 1:17 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 4 Imperative 1: Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core In 2017: 10 8 43 product approvals regulatory submissions pipeline assets advanced Since our imperatives launched in 2011: • Strengthened our decision-making process • Continued to improve the productivity and e ciency • Sharpened our focus to five therapeutic areas • Secured 30 product approvals – including five products approved with blockbuster potential Allocating Capital to Benefit Patients and Shareholders We continue to make capital allocation decisions that maximize benefits for patients and enhance shareholder value. We strongly believe that over the next five years, the biopharmaceutical companies that generate meaningful value for patients in terms of health and quality of life and for the healthcare system in terms of cost/benefit will be the ones that thrive. As patient value becomes the critical determinant of access, price and utilization, the interests of patients become even more strongly aligned with the interests of shareholders. Helping as many patients as possible with breakthrough medicines that improve therapeutic outcomes is inextricably linked to our future revenue growth potential. In 2017, we continued to invest in our business – including funding the discovery and development of potentially life-changing treatments – while simultaneously returning $12.7 billion directly to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. WATCH IAN C. READ EXPLAIN IMPERATIVE 2 1:10 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 5 Imperative 2: Make capital allocation decisions that maximize patient benefit and enhance shareholder value In 2017: $52.5b $12.7b $7.6b in revenue returned to shareholders invested in R&D through dividends and share repurchases Since our imperatives launched in 2011: • Returned approx. $110 billion directly to • Increased our stock prices by 97 percent – or shareholders through a combination of 151 percent, inclusive of dividends dividends and share repurchases reinvested (Reflects change in stock price (2010-2017) from Feb. 11, 2011 – Jan. 31, 2018) Partnering to Improve Global Health At Pfizer, we recognize that it’s not enough to discover, develop and bring life-saving medicines and vaccines to market if the people who need these treatments can’t get access to them. In 2017, we continued to work to s upport affordable access to healthcare through partnerships like Access Accelerated, which is working to improve access to treatment and care for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in lowand middle-income countries; through our new collaboration with the American Cancer Society and the Clinton Health Access Initiative to expand access to essential cancer treatment medications in six sub-Saharan African countries; and by actively engaging with industry groups like the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and others to advocate for policies that support affordable access, incentives for investments in science and innovation, and rebate reform. WATCH IAN C. READ EXPLAIN IMPERATIVE 3 1:17 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 6 Imperative 3: Be a responsible corporate citizen In 2017: 16m+ Shipped 16+ million units of Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate) to 23 countries in the developing world, potentially reaching more than 4 million women $1m Committed to donate up to 1 million doses of Naxolene Hydrochloride Injection, USP to Direct Relief over four years (up to 250,000 doses per year), and $1 million in opioid overdose grants to five states (Illinois, Massachusetts, new Mexico, New York and Tennessee) $2.75m The Pfizer Foundation¹ donated $2.75 million in cash grants globally to disaster relief and response 30,000 Hundreds of colleagues volunteered to pack approximately 30,000 relief kits 2,200 generators provided to colleagues in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria Since our imperatives launched in 2011: • Helped more than 2.2 million patients • Donated 465 million doses of the antibiotic receive over 29.3 million Pfizer prescriptions Zithromax® to support the International for free or at a savings² Trachoma Initiative • Matched $74,147,751.85 in colleague donations through Pfizer Foundation Matching Gifts 1. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2. Data on file. The Pfizer patient assistance program is a joint program of Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation™. The Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 7 Our Four Imperatives While our purpose has brought focus to our company’s journey, our Four Imperatives have provided us with a clear roadmap to follow. Since being introduced globally in February 2011, they have represented the critical areas that need to be addressed if we were going to ensure Pfizer’s future success: innovation, capital allocation, corporate responsibility and culture. I invite you to click on the four video links accompanying this letter to learn more about our imperatives and the transformational impact they continue to have on our company. WATCH IAN C. READ EXPLAIN IMPERATIVE 3 1:10 Imperative 4: Continually strengthen our ownership culture In 2017: Achieved 20%+ 85% 20+ percent of our employee engagement workforce – 21,000+ score – among the highest colleagues – actively in our industry* engaged in a Colleague Resource Group Launched the Head, Heart and Guts Amplified our OWNIT! culture through leadership initiative, a simple, memorable increased honest and meaningful way for colleagues to demonstrate discussions among colleagues and an leadership, regardless of role or level environment that empowers them to be decisive in addressing the complex issues Since our imperatives launched in 2011, we have seen:* • 28 percent improvement in confronting jerk• 7 percent improvement in acting with speed like behaviors in the workplace and decisiveness • 14 percent improvement in encouraging thoughtful risk taking * Percentages based on the company’s annual colleague engagement survey results 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 8 Here at Pfizer, every clinical trial, every product launch and every patient served brings us one step closer to becoming the premier innovative biopharmaceutical company in the world. Thank you for your continued support of the complex, important and fulfilling work we do every day. Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO * We encourage you to read our 2017 Financial Report, which includes our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017. Please also refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, including the sections captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results,” for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included herein. 2017 Annual Review CEO letter 9 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Performance Financial Performance Three year summary as of and for the year ended December 31(a) % CHANGE Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2017 2016 2015 17/16 16/15 Revenues $52,546 $52,824 $48,851 (1) 8 Cost of Sales 11,240 12,329 9,648 (9) 28 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 14,784 14,837 14,809 – – Research and development expenses 7,657 7,872 7,690 (3) 2 Restructuring charges and certain 487 1,724 1,152 (72) 50 acquisition-related costs Income from continuing operations 21,353 7,229 6,975 * 4 Discontinued operations – net of tax 2 17 11 (87) 49 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc.(b) 21,308 7,215 6,960 * 4 Diluted earnings per common share attributable 3.52 1.17 1.11 * 5 to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders(b) Weighted-average shares – diluted 6,058 6,159 6,257 (2) (2) Number of common shares outstanding 5,979 6,070 6,175 (1) (2) Total assets 171,797 171,615 167,381 – 3 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 10 Three year summary as of and for the year ended December 31(a) % CHANGE Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2017 2016 2015 17/16 16/15 Total long-term obligations(c) 69,714 80,660 72,985 (14) 11 Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity 71,308 59,544 64,720 20 (8) Shareholders’ equity per common share 11.93 9.81 10.48 22 (6) Net cash provided by operating activities 16,470 15,901 14,688 4 8 Property, plant and equipment additions 1,956 1,823 1,397 7 30 Purchases of common stock 5,000 5,000 6,160 – (19) Cash dividends paid 7,659 7,317 6,940 5 5 * Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2017 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. (a) 2017 reflects the February 3, 2017 sale of Hospira Infusion Systems net assets to ICU Medical, Inc. and the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule antiinfectives business, primarily outside the U.S. on December 22, 2016. 2017 and 2016 reflect the acquisition of Medivation, Inc. on September 28, 2016 and the acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on June 24, 2016. 2017, 2016 and 2015 reflect the acquisition of Hospira, Inc. on September 3, 2015. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements––Note 2. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment in our 2017 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. (b) 2017 reflects the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA. (c) Defined as Long-term debt, Pension benefit obligations, net, Postretirement benefit obligations, net, Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, Other taxes payable and Other noncurrent liabilities. Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A-1+ by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s (Outlook: Stable) and AA by S&P (Outlook: Stable). Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 11 Key Performance Indicators Access to Medicines • Overview • We currently have 356 active programs3 for launched medicines in markets that have a gross domestic product (GDP) per capita less than Portugal. • This covers 63 countries. • Of these, 12 programs cover multiple therapies while the rest are product specific. • In total, these cover 125 different products in our portfolio. 1. Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, multilateral organization, non-governmental organization, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. 2. As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight, and self-inflicted injuries. 3. The number of patient access programs with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 12 Top Ten Medicines and Vaccines by Revenue in 2017 1 $5,601 million Prevnar 13 / Prevenar 13 (Pneumococcal 13-valent 2 $5,065 million1 Lyrica® (pregabalin) Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) 3 $3,126 million Ibrance® (palbociclib) 4 $2,523 million2 Eliquis® (apixaban) 5 $2,452 million3 Enbrel (Etanercept) 6 $1,915 million Lipitor® (atorvastatin) 7 $1,345 million Xeljanz® (tofacitinib) 8 $1,204 million1 Viagra® (sildenafil citrate) 9 $1,081 million Sutent® (sunitinib malate) 10 $997 million Chantix® (varenicline) 1. Total Revenue (PIH+PEH) 2. Alliance Revenue & Direct Sales 3. Outside U.S. and Canada For more information on any of these medicines and vaccines, visit: Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 13 Colleagues Progress on Our 2020 Environmental Sustainability • 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 14 • Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal3 2017 2016 2020 Goal Key suppliers supporting Pfizer’s supplier code of conduct 83% 79% 100% Key suppliers aligning with Pharmaceutical Supply Chain initiative (PSCI) principles 66% 35% 100% Key suppliers managing their environmental impacts 84% 76% 100% Key suppliers with reduction goals for GHG, waste disposal and water withdrawal 53% 51% 90% 1. Our 2016 injury data included the Medical Devices business added through the Hospira acquisition and subsequently divested and not reflected in 2017 injury data. Our 2017 injury data includes a onetime food borne illness event impacting colleagues at an external meeting location. Excluding this event, we had an approximately 15% increase in the injury rate in 2017 as a result of injuries and illnesses related to incidents such as slips, trips and falls, and ergonomics, among others. 2. Applies to facilities within Pfizer’s operational control as compared with a 2012 baseline. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. The 2012–2016 GHG data wwas independently verified to the limited assurance level. The verification of the 2017 GHG data will be accomplished in 2018. A number of one time events contributed to our overall emission reductions experienced in 2017. Between 2018 and thru 2020 (goal year) we expect fluctuations in our environmental sustainability performance due to business changes, however, we are confident that we are on track to meet our 2020 Goals through ongoing focus on emission and resource reduction projects. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. 3. Key suppliers include 128 major contributors to our external environmental footprint, strategic collaborators with Worldwide Research and Development, and those suppliers we anticipate having continued involvement with. Key suppliers represent only a portion of Pfizer’s overall supply chains for goods and services. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 15 Performance and Financial Guidance1 Revenues (in billions) 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 $52.4 – $53.1 $53.5 – $55.5 $52.5 Adjusted cost of sales4 as a % of revenues 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 20.5% 20.0% – 20.5% 20.5% – 21.5% Adjusted SI&A expenses4 (in billions) 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 $14.5 $14.0 – $14.5 $14.0 – $15.0 Adjusted R&D expenses4 (in billions) 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 $7.5 – $7.8 $7.4 – $7.9 $7.6 Adjusted other (income)/deductions4 (in millions) 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 APPROX. ($500) APPROX. ($400) ($699) OF INCOME OF INCOME OF INCOME 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 16 Performance and Financial Guidance1 Effective tax rate on adjusted income4 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 20.0% APPROX. 23.0% APPROX. 17.0% Adjusted diluted EPS4 2017 Actual 2017 Guidance2 2018 Guidance3 $2.58 – $2.62 $2.90 – $3.00 $2.65 1. Please refer to Pfizer’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections captioned Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results, for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements, including our 2018 Financial Guidance, included in this Annual Review. Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than Revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forwardlooking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. 2. Our 2017 financial guidance reflected: • Did not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of October 1, 2017, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. • Exchange rates that assumed a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through September 2017 and the midOctober 2017 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. • For Revenues, reflected the previously estimated negative impact of $2.3 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost patent protection. • Reflected the previously estimated negative impact of $0.1 billion on Revenues and $0.01 on Adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2016. • For Adjusted diluted EPS, assumed diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of between 6.0 and 6.1 billion shares. 3. The 2018 financial guidance (1) is as of January 30, 2018; (2) is not being updated or reaffirmed in connection with this Annual Review; and (3) reflects: • A full year contribution from Consumer Healthcare. Pfizer continues to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for Consumer Healthcare would be made during 2018. • Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2017, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. • Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2018. • For Revenues, reflects an anticipated negative impact of $2.0 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. Assumes no generic competition for Lyrica in the U.S. until June 2019, which is contingent upon a six-month patent-term extension granted by the FDA for pediatric exclusivity, which the company is currently pursuing. • The anticipated favorable impact of $900 million on Revenues and $0.06 on Adjusted diluted EPS as a result of favorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2017. • Guidance for the effective tax rate on Adjusted income reflects our provisional estimate of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA. • For Adjusted diluted EPS, assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of ~6.0 billion shares, which reflects anticipated share repurchases totaling $5.0 billion in 2018. Dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is expected to offset by approximately half the reduction in shares associated with these anticipated share repurchases. 4. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are defined as reported U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) net income(5) and its components and reported diluted EPS(5) excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items (some of which may recur, such as restructuring or legal charges, but which management does not believe are reflective of ongoing core operations), including significant changes resulting from tax legislation such as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). Adjusted cost of sales, Adjusted selling, informational and administrative (SI&A), Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted other (income)/deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and therefore components of, the overall Adjusted income measure. As described in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations––Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, management uses Adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. Because Adjusted income is an important internal measurement for Pfizer, management believes that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. Pfizer reports Adjusted income, certain components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted EPS in order to portray the results of major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (OTC) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. Reconciliations of certain U.S. GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted information for 2017 are provided in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. The Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are NonGAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components) and Adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted EPS) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 5. Reported Net Income in accordance with U.S. GAAP is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Reported Diluted EPS is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Performance 17 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Understanding the External Environment Changing Patient Demographics Changes in lifestyle, such as diet, urbanization and exercise habits, combined with increasing life expectancy in many countries, are leading to increased prevalence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs), such as cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Chronic diseases are often difficult to treat and create a need for pharmaceutical companies to innovate new breakthrough medicines and vaccines. These factors are creating new challenges to help enhance and extend lives, but also increase pressure on health care providers and policymakers. 1 in 4 3 out of 4 One in four people around the Chronic diseases are expected to world, outside of Africa, is expected account for almost three out of four to be over the age of 60 by 2050.1 deaths worldwide by 20202 Trend Response Our strategy is closely aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3, Good Health and Well-being at all ages. A key target of this goal is to reduce by one-third the number of deaths from NCDs by 2030. We are working hard to address some of the most pressing public health challenges, both through our focused research and development activities, as well as by collaborating with civil society and global institutions that aim to provide information and novel solutions to tackle this issue. Sustainable Development Goals Delivering Value through our Global Businesses 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 18 Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen, Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core. Political Uncertainty Pfizer operates globally and in a highly regulated industry. Ongoing global political uncertainty adds complexity to our ability to operate in some countries, as governments set pharmaceutical policies and regulations. In 2016 and early 2017, governments adopting nationalist agendas led to political variability in both the U.S. and Europe and, as a result, an increased lack of clarity remains in relation to legal and regulatory health care reforms. Trend Response Where possible, we engage with national governments, policymakers and regulatory authorities. Through this active engagement, we can better anticipate potential regulatory decisions and help position our business accordingly. We engage proactively and seek to help to inform public policy discussions in an appropriate and compliant manner. Stakeholder Engagement Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen. Patient Empowerment Widespread internet availability continues to transform how patients engage in their health care, from the earliest symptoms through the treatment process and beyond. This access to information helps patients become better informed about their conditions, as well as medicines available to them. Trend Response We are working to improve the way we engage with our patients, as well as providing them with resources and information to better take health and wellness into their own hands. This year, we launched several digital initiatives to help improve patient empowerment, details of which can be found using the links below. Stakeholder engagement Transforming How We Tackle Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) Supporting the Needs of Cancer Patients in the Community Empowering People to Take Health and Wellness into Their Own Hands Transforming Our Approach to Clinical Trials 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 19 Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen. Pricing Aging and changing demographic shifts have placed pressure on health care systems, and new gene therapies and cures that bring breakthroughs and value with upfront costs, are putting a strain on health care budgets. In emerging markets, the middle class has growing expectations for governments to provide quality health care and access to innovative treatments. These factors have led to an increased focus on the affordability of medicines and, as a result, some governments, payers, patient groups and other stakeholders are seeking to reduce the price of medicines through regulation and/or other means. An investment in medicines delivers value to society in a number of critical ways: it helps avoid other costly health care interventions, increases patients’ quality of life and has demonstrated improved worker productivity. When pricing our medicines, we consider a variety of factors. We also seek to provide medicines that are reasonably affordable for patients, payers and governments, considering the value that our medications bring to those stakeholders and to the health care system. 90 percent In the U.S., nearly 90 percent of prescriptions dispensed are for generic medicines. The other 10 percent tend to be for more innovative medicines – many of which are for serious, hard-to-treat conditions.4 These innovative medicines are typically more expensive than generic medications, but after a limited patent life, these innovations will face generic competition and this cycle supports system financial sustainability. Trend Response Pfizer is committed to pricing our medicines in a way that reflects the benefit they bring to patients and society, ensuring patients have reasonable access and enabling us to continue to invest in new medicines. We may consider several factors when setting a price for a product. This may include the product’s likely impact on patients and their disease, the availability of other treatments, and the role of generic developments. This also can take into account the potential to reduce other health care costs (such as hospital stays), affordability, investments to maintain quality, safety, reliability, and our ability to continue to innovate to bring new, life-changing medicines and vaccines to patients. We also consult physicians, payers and patient groups, as appropriate. In addition to our innovative, branded therapies, we also offer a portfolio of more than 600 generic medicines that are lower-priced alternatives for many drugs that no longer hold exclusivity. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 20 We are continuing to broaden the transparency of our price-setting process. In 2017, for instance, we launched a series of articles on our main website, aimed at providing stakeholders with more information into how we may set the price of many of our medicines. We are also working to ensure that out-of-pocket costs, which for the insured population are determined by payers and not by Pfizer, do not become a barrier to proper utilization of our medicines. Global Businesses – PEH Prescription Drug Pricing Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen, Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core. Access Barriers to health care and access to medicine are broad societal problems that cannot be resolved by pharmaceutical companies alone. However, as developers and manufacturers of medicines and vaccines, these companies have a responsibility to help facilitate access in partnership with many other stakeholders in the health ecosystem. 2 bn Globally, 2 billion people do not have access to the medicine they need.5 Trend Response Pfizer is addressing access issues on multiple fronts, leveraging our people, resources and creative commercial strategies to develop sustainable, responsible solutions. For example, Pfizer is at the forefront of developing biosimilar medicines, which could help transform the treatment of difficult-totreat diseases by helping health care systems manage them more costeffectively. By providing options that can be more affordable for health care systems, biosimilars can allow for the reallocation of resources to other areas of patient care, while still delivering similar quality, efficacy and safety as the originator biologic. Please see “Innovation and Data” below for details on our strategy for innovating to address unmet medical needs. In the U.S., Pfizer RxPathways® helps connect eligible patients to assistance programs that help them get their medicines for free or at a savings. We also offer patient assistance programs that provide select Pfizer medicines for free to patients who qualify. The income eligibility for these programs start at 400 percent of the Federal Poverty Limit, meaning more patients may be eligible to receive help from Pfizer. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 21 In 2017, we helped more than 250,000 patients receive over 1.8 million Pfizer prescriptions for free or at a savings.6 Through our various Corporate Responsibility programs and the Pfizer Foundation,7 we work with patient groups, governments, not-for-profit organizations and others around the world to provide financial donations, as well as discounts and donations of our medicines, helping to bring life-changing treatments to individuals who may not otherwise have been able to afford or have access to them. We are working to help broaden access to Pfizer’s long-acting injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), for women most in need in some of the world’s poorest countries. This work is done through a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation. And, through our partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, we provide Prevnar 13® (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) to infants and children through Gavi’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC). To demonstrate our support of the AMC, we have committed to supply up to 740 million doses of this critical pneumococcal vaccine at our lowest global price through 2025. Pfizer does not support anti-competitive behavior that blocks patients’ access to the medicines they need, and initiates litigation where we believe that other companies are doing so to the detriment of patients. Global Businesses – PIH Global Businesses – PEH Biosimilars Innovating How We Help Patients Receive Assistance Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen, Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core. Innovation and Data As we continue to effectively treat and manage chronic and life-threatening diseases, pharmaceutical companies must continue to advance innovative medicines and vaccines. In recent years, developments such as biologics and precision medicine have been effective at treating many of these diseases. Technology is changing the way we approach our research and development activities. Mobile and internet connectivity, “big data” and analytics bring new insights and huge opportunity to drive innovation. Data will help scientists to more efficiently develop medicines and better define which patients will benefit most from specific treatments and vaccines. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 22 $200bn Analytics can reduce health care expenditures by $200 billion in the U.S. alone by the end of the decade.8 Trend Response The development of novel approaches to treat and prevent disease is an integral pillar of our strategy (Innovate and Lead) and is a core focus of our research and development activities. In 2017, we invested $7.6 billion into researching and developing new treatments. We also recognize that, sometimes, the key to innovation is through teamwork. At Pfizer, we not only collaborate with academia and patient organizations to share expertise in a common area, but also work with other companies to potentially accelerate new innovations and therapies. We use data at all stages of the research and development process to help discover potential medicines, assess efficacy in clinical trials and help ensure manufacturing and supply chain excellence. Our Innovation Global Businesses – PIH Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen, Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core, Make capital allocation decisions that maximize patient benefit and enhances shareholder value. Competition from Generics A generic drug is loosely defined as a pharmaceutical medicine that is equivalent to a brand-name product in dosage, strength, route of administration, quality, performance and intended use. Generic medicines tend to cost less than brand-name drugs because they don’t have the investment costs to develop a new drug. On average, a small-molecule generic medicine takes only about two years to develop, at a cost of around $1 million to $2 million dollars (versus 10 years and $2.6 billion dollars for a new medicine).4 After a product loses market exclusivity, other companies can legally manufacture and sell a generic alternative at a lower price. Patents and other forms of intellectual property (IP) play an important role in incentivizing the discovery and development of newer and more effective medicines and vaccines that address unmet medical needs of patients. Patentprotected medicines are the necessary precursor of generic medicines – put simply, the generic medicines of today are the innovative medicines of yesterday that have since come off-patent. Big picture – by paving the way for generics, a continuous cycle of innovation, incentivized by patents, helps lower health care costs and makes certain medicines more accessible to patients over time. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 23 <0.1% The average cost to produce a generic medicine is less than 0.1 percent of the cost to produce the original.9 Trend Response Pfizer is focused on harnessing the full power of science to develop a comprehensive portfolio of medicines and vaccines that transform the lives of patients around the world. This purpose drives our desire to provide access to medicines for patients that are safe, effective and affordable. Through our Pfizer Essential Health (PEH) and Pfizer Innovative Health (PIH) businesses, we have the capability to both develop innovative medicines and vaccines with appropriate patent protection, as well as high-quality generics. To help ensure that our business remains viable, we actively evaluate our business strategy in all markets to help ensure continued innovation and access. Strong IP protections give companies like Pfizer confidence that their resourceintensive research and development efforts will be protected, thus enabling companies to potentially launch new medicines faster and facilitate access for patients globally. Global Businesses – PIH Global Businesses – PEH Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen, Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core, Make capital allocation decisions that maximize patient benefit and enhances shareholder value. Trust and Expectations A period of sustained low economic growth and a series of high-profile corporate crises have contributed to a global breakdown in society’s trust for “big business.” Generally, there are increasing expectations of the role that companies should play in society. Specifically, within the pharmaceutical industry, recent media attention and investigations into the safety and pricing practices of a few companies have magnified this issue, leading to a reputational challenge across the entire industry. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 24 Trend Response Being a responsible corporate citizen has long been a part of Pfizer’s heritage, and our OWNIT! culture inspires colleagues to be strategic, passionate and courageous at work, every day, to impact our business and, ultimately, the patients we serve. Using straight talk, performing with integrity, fostering a sense of personal accountability and exhibiting leadership at every level of the organization are some of the ways we demonstrate and earn trust. We are committed to the highest levels of quality, compliance and performing with integrity, and we care deeply about the patients who need our products and the communities in which we work and live. We embody these commitments every day in all that we do. Examples: • In 2017, we launched an innovative partnership called Access Accelerated that brings together 23 pharmaceutical companies, the World Bank and the Union for International Cancer Control to address the growing burden of non-communicable diseases in lowand lower-middle-income countries. • To help patients in the U.S. get the medicines they need, we continue to evolve our assistance programs. This past year, we launched our first-ever direct-to-consumer digital ad to help patients and caregivers who might be eligible for assistance better understand our programs and how to access them. • We are always trying to improve the understanding of our mission to develop and deliver quality medicines and to be transparent in our business practices. We launched a digital campaign featuring our scientists and manufacturing colleagues to illustrate our commitment. We have information about how we price our medicines on Pfizer.com, highlighting how we strive to maintain a balance between value to patients and society with our ability to invest in ongoing research and development of future medicines. (See Pricing and Access). Pfizer is proud to be a leader in finding solutions to help ensure that health systems are affordable and sustainable and, thus, we have a broad set of initiatives with external partners to address some of the most vexing problems. • We are working with others across the health care sector to develop new approaches to encourage use of preventive therapies in the belief that this will help reduce overall health care spending. This includes raising awareness about the benefits of vaccines, smoking cessation and adherence to medicines that manage and mitigate health conditions. • We continue to partner with leading health care economists to examine the impact that out-of-pocket costs can have on patient medication adherence, overall health care spending and patient outcomes so that we can work with payers to make more informed decisions about how to design health care benefits that truly protect people’s health. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 25 • We have developed policies that govern the way our employees carry out our activities, to make sure we conduct our business in a safe, ethical and transparent manner. Please see Governance & Ethics for more information. • Pfizer is engaged to help combat the U.S. opioid crisis. In 2017, we committed to donating up to 1 million doses of Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection, USP to Direct Relief over four years (up to 250,000 doses per year), and $1 million in opioid overdose grants to five states (Illinois, Massachusetts, New Mexico, New York and Tennessee). We also are developing a non-opioid drug, tanezumab, for osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain in partnership with Eli Lilly. In June, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted Fast Track designation for tanezumab for the osteoarthritis and chronic low back pain indications. If approved, this will be the first in a new class of non-opioid pain medications.10 Regular stakeholder engagement and partnerships inform our global and local decision making. Please see Stakeholder Engagement for more information. Our Culture Internal Medicine Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen Antimicrobial Resistance Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a leading global public health threat and a major challenge for health care systems. Alarmingly, antimicrobial medicines are losing their effectiveness, because pathogens change and find ways to resist the effects of antibiotics. The pathogens survive, grow and spread their resistance; this process of adaptation leads to AMR. Overuse and misuse of these treatments is accelerating the process of resistance, as AMR can affect anyone, of any age, in any country. Without effective antimicrobials, even routine medical procedures can become high-risk. Once a microorganism has become resistant, there are a limited number of remaining treatment options, which represents a significant public health and economic burden to health care systems. 3.8% 700,000 According to the World Bank, drug Deaths per year attributed to resistant infections could reduce world AMR globally could increase to GDP by 2-3.8 percent by 2050.11 10 million predicted by 2050.12 Trend Response Pfizer is working closely with the infectious disease community to raise awareness of this serious global health threat and to help identify innovative solutions to help combat AMR and help ensure antibiotics are prescribed 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 26 appropriately and for the right duration. This year, we progressed well against the AMR roadmap commitments that we released in 2016, alongside 12 industry partners, to reduce the rising incidence of AMR by 2020. We’ve worked hard to put this commitment into action by advancing active stewardship, surveillance and good manufacturing practices, supporting global policy leadership and expanding our diverse portfolio of more than 80 anti-infectives. These efforts have been recognized by both the AMR Industry Alliance in their recent progress report, as well as by the Access to Medicines Foundation in their first AMR Benchmark Report, where Pfizer is cited “among the top performing large research-based pharmaceutical companies,” in large part due to the work we do on stewardship, access, and responsible manufacturing. Please see Anti-Infectives and Environment, Health & Safety for more information. Experts agree that vaccines, too, play a vital role in the arsenal to address AMR and Pfizer is committed to continuing the development of new, innovative vaccines and providing access to existing vaccines to help prevent serious disease globally. Anti-Infectives Vaccines Environment, Health & Safety Strategy/Imperative: Be a responsible corporate citizen, Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core. 1. World Population Prospects The 2017 Revision, United Nations, https://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/Publications/Files/WPP2017_KeyFindings.pdf 2. Nutrition Background, World Health Organization, http://www.who.int/nutrition/topics/2_background/en/ 3. Let’s See How Biosimilars are Developed, Pfizer Inc., https://www.pfizerbiosimilars.com/biosimilars-development 4. Why are Some Medicines So Expensive Today?, Pfizer Inc., https://www.pfizer.com/news/featured_stories/ featured_stories_detail/why_are_some_medicines_so_expensive_today 5. Access to Medicines Index, Access to Medicines Foundation, https://accesstomedicineindex.org/about-the-index/ 6. Data on file. Pfizer Inc., New York, NY 7. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 8. Analytics in the Pharmaceutical industry, Innoplexus, https://www.innoplexus.com/2017/03/02/analytics-pharmaceutical-industry/ 9. Pfizer Policy Position on Antimicrobial Resistance, Global Policy & International Public Affairs, Pfizer Inc., https://www.pfizer.com/files/about/Policy-Position-on-Antimicrobial-Resistance-8-17-17.pdf 10. 1Direct Relief is a humanitarian organization, operating in 70 countries and in the United States, with the mission to improve the health and lives of people affected by poverty or emergencies. It is only nonprofit 501(c)(3) in U.S. licensed to distribute pharmaceuticals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and administers all product donation programs for Pfizer. 11. The World Bank. By 2050, drug-resistant infections could cause global economic damage on par with 2008 financial crisis. September 20, 2016. Available at: http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/pressrelease/2016/09/18/by-2050-drug-resistant-infections-could-cause-global-economic-damage-on-parwith-2008-financial-crisis 12. Tackling a crisis for the health and wealth of nations. December 2014. Available at: https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/AMR%20Review%20Paper%20-%20Tackling%20a%20crisis%20 for%20the%20health%20and%20wealth%20of%20nations_1.pdf 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Understanding the External Environment 27 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Delivering Value through our Global Businesses Science has the power to positively impact global health through the introduction of breakthrough medicines, the collaborative effort to eliminate disease, the application of technology to disease and vaccines management and the implementation of innovative access strategies. Pfizer is focused on harnessing the full power of science to develop a comprehensive portfolio of medicines and vaccines that transform the lives of patients around the world. This purpose drives our desire to provide access to medicines and vaccines for patients that are safe, effective and affordable. Through our Pfizer Essential Health (PEH) and Pfizer Innovative Health (PIH) businesses, we believe we are well positioned to deliver on this purpose while also driving value for our shareholders. With each business focusing on global areas of medicine and related-services, our structure allows us to be more responsive and flexible to best meet the evolving needs of the patients and communities we serve. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Delivering Value through our Global Businesses 28 Pfizer Essential Health Through a broad portfolio of more than 600 products (including leading products in the fields of anti-infectives, biosimilars and sterile injectables) and global reach in 160 countries, PEH aims to continue to improve global health by making our quality medicines accessible to patients around the world. Read more about Pfizer Essential Health Pfizer Innovative Health PIH believes in putting the patient first. This defines how we organize ourselves and evaluate performance across our six key business groups – Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine (cardiovascular and metabolic diseases and pain), Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines. Most of all, it keeps us committed to creating a healthier world. Read more about Pfizer Innovative Health 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Delivering Value through our Global Businesses 29 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Global Businesses – PEH Pfizer Essential Health (PEH) medicines reach more than 300 million patients a year at virtually every stage of life. The depth and breadth of our portfolio of trusted medicines and capabilities deliver value to patients throughout the world. Whether it’s using new technology and our deep experience to increase access to an essential medicine, or combating an emerging health risk, our ability to innovate and anticipate customer and patient needs allows us to make meaningful and inspired contributions to improving global health. PEH Market Leadership: Global Reach and Impact Global leader in Number one in total Leading company Recognized leader in anti-infectives biosimilar sales in global o -patent emerging markets sterile injectables PEH continues to focus on our core portfolios including: ANTI-INFECTIVES BIOSIMILARS EMERGING MARKETS GLOBAL BRANDS STERILE INJECTABLES Anti-infectives We o er the industry’s largest – and one of the most diverse – portfolios of anti-infective therapies, with more than 80 potentially life80+ saving medicines. We recognize the growing threat of infectious diseases and are committed Potentially to being a holistic provider of prevention and life-saving treatment solutions beyond just medicines. We medicines are proud to be a leader in this space, partnering with the infectious disease community to continue to protect the public from infectious 2017 Annual Review Our diseases, now andBusiness, in the future.Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PEH 30 Biosimilars PEH continues to focus on our core portfolios including: ANTI-INFECTIVES BIOSIMILARS EMERGING MARKETS GLOBAL BRANDS STERILE INJECTIBLES Anti-infectives We offer the industry’s largest – and one of the most diverse – portfolios of anti-infective therapies, with more than 80 potentially life-saving medicines. 80+ We recognize the growing threat of infectious diseases and are committed to being a holistic provider of prevention and treatment solutions beyond just Potentially medicines. We are proud to be a leader in this space, partnering with the life-saving medicines infectious disease community to continue to protect the public from infectious diseases, now and in the future. Biosimilars We develop high-quality versions of biologic medicines that provide patients and prescribers around the world with additional treatment options across 12 multiple life-threatening and chronic diseases, including inflammatory diseases, autoimmune diseases and cancer. Our current in-market Assets in various commercialized portfolio includes three biosimilars, and our pipeline is one stages of development of the largest globally, with 12 assets in various stages of development, including seven assets in in midto late-stage development. Emerging Markets Through a combination of our vast portfolio and expansive geographic footprint, we are able to consistently meet the diverse needs of, and provide significant value and impact to, patients and health care professionals in emerging markets around the world in an innovative, socially responsible and commercially viable manner. Global Brands Our vast portfolio of medicines treat a range of conditions and remain first-line treatments for patients and physicians in both developed and emerging markets. These products include many of the world’s best known brands such as Celebrex® (celecoxib), Lipitor® (atorvastatin calcium), Norvasc® (amlodipine besylate), Premarin® (conjugated estrogens tablets, USP), Zithromax® (azithromycin), Zoloft® (sertraline hydrochloride) and Zyvox® (linezolid). Sterile Injectables We have an industry-leading portfolio of more than 250 injectable medicines to support clinicians and patients across the continuum of care in hospitals, 250+ clinics, and other healthcare facilities. Injectable medicines to support clinicians and patients 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PEH 31 Changing the Face of Patient Care Through Biosimilars As one of the world’s leading innovative biopharmaceutical companies, Pfizer is at the forefront of developing, manufacturing, and delivering high-quality biosimilars to patients, physicians and payers. Biosimilars have the potential to expand patient access to treatment and to contribute to more sustainable health care systems. This should be achieved without compromising quality and by making resources available for further investment and innovation so that more patients may receive the best possible care. At Pfizer, we are making high-quality versions of biologic medicines available to patients and physicians in a number of countries around the world across multiple life-threatening and chronic diseases in the fields of inflammation, immunology, and oncology. Our work in biosimilars, which reflects both our commitment to scientific innovation and our focus on patient access, is a prime example of how we are driving value in every aspect of our business to improve patient health. We have 10 years of global experience in biosimilars. Our current commercialized in-market portfolio includes Inflectra® (infliximab-dyyb in the U.S.) and Nivestim® (filgrastim) and Retacrit® (epoetin zeta), both approved in Europe. In December, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Ixifi™ (infliximab-qbtx), our second biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab). Our pipeline is one of the largest globally, with 12 assets in various stages of development, including seven assets in midto late-stage development, and a number of compounds in registration in Europe, the U.S., and other areas of the world. These include potential biosimilars for some of the world’s most well-known biologics in the treatment of cancer, including Herceptin® (trastuzumab) and Avastin® (bevacizumab). Read more about how our biosimilars are transforming patient access to care. Addressing Global Public Health Needs with Anti-Infectives At Pfizer, we are driven by our desire to protect global public health and reduce the suffering caused by infectious diseases. Starting with our pioneering work on penicillin in the 1940s, we have a long and proud heritage of addressing evolving infectious disease challenges. We offer the industry’s largest and most diverse portfolios of anti-infective therapies, which includes more than 80 potentially life-saving medicines. We continue to invest in novel treatments for infectious diseases to address the greatest patient medical needs and provide solutions that go beyond the medicine. Working together with the infectious disease community, we are striving to overcome the challenges associated with antimicrobial resistance – one of the largest threats to global public health today – by leveraging our expertise and capabilities to share solutions with our health care partners. Read more about how Pfizer is innovating to deliver new anti-infective therapies 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PEH 32 Ensuring Access to High-Quality Sterile Injectables Pfizer has one of the broadest and most diverse portfolios of important, difficult-to-manufacture and life-saving sterile injectable medicines in the industry. Through this portfolio of more than 250 products, we are firmly positioned to support many areas of hospital care and make a deep and meaningful impact on patients, now and in the future. Leveraging Science to Create Supply Chain Solutions Pfizer’s goal is for patients to receive uninterrupted access to our medicines. We continue to use our operational and supply chain data from enterprise systems to identify processes to better meet the needs of our patients. In 2017, this information helped us address drug shortages of several injectable medicines used in hospitals and other clinical settings. Within Pfizer Global Supply, our manufacturing teams work with health care bodies to put solutions in place to help expedite supply recovery for important medicines. One critical element of Pfizer supply recovery activities has been providing scientific data to regulatory authorities to support extended use dating for products in the supply chain. We are also working to minimize supply shortages in the future, by investing in advanced technology and capabilities. Bringing Pfizer Trusted Legacy Medicines to Patients Global brands are medicines that treat a range of conditions and have been part of a legacy that has made Pfizer one of the most trusted names in medicine. Although many of these medicines are no longer exclusively manufactured by Pfizer, they often remain important treatments for patients in the developed world and are beginning to be part of core treatment regimens in emerging markets. Rigorous studies over decades have established the value that these medicines bring to the health care community. We also provide a range of generic therapeutic options to patients and health care providers and payers. Overall, our portfolio of medicines includes treatments for: • Cancer • Cardiovascular disease (high cholesterol, high blood pressure) • Central nervous system disorders (depression, anxiety) • Deep venous thromboembolism • Erectile dysfunction • Infectious disease • Inflammation • Pain (neuropathic, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis) • Women’s health (menopause, family planning) 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PEH 33 A New Chapter for an Iconic Brand Since its first approval in 1994, our iconic erectile dysfunction treatment Viagra® (sildenafil citrate) has been one of our all-time best-selling medicines. Importantly, Viagra revolutionized the way we think and talk about sexual health. On December 11, 2017, the patent exclusivity of Viagra expired in the U.S. Pfizer Essential Health will continue to offer branded Viagra, and Greenstone, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer with a comprehensive and diverse product portfolio of generic medicines, launched an authorized generic sildenafil citrate. Both products will come with the assurance of our quality manufacturing standards. In addition, in November, following an extensive review process, the U.K. Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), approved the reclassification of sildenafil citrate 50mg as a nonprescription pharmacy medicine. Pfizer expects to introduce the pharmacysupplied product, Viagra Connect® in the U.K. in spring 2018. How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic public health solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PEH 34 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Global Businesses – PIH At Pfizer Innovative Health (PIH), putting the patient first defines how we organize ourselves and evaluate performance across our six business groups – Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine (cardiovascular and metabolic diseases and pain), Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines – and, most of all, it keeps us committed to creating a healthier world. Our Emerging Markets group is dedicated to bringing innovative medicines and vaccines to the people and patients that need them across Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and emerging Asia. As a team, we are committed to using science to change the outcome of chronic conditions and devastating diseases around the world. We are focused on improving health with our innovative medicines and vaccines – from prevention to treatment to wellness – at every stage of life in communities across the globe. Everything we do is to help ensure that people have a chance to live longer, get stronger and lead more vibrant lives. Consumer Healthcare In addition to our broad portfolio of prescription medicines, Pfizer is one of the largest over-the-counter (OTC) healthcare companies in the world. Our non-prescription medicines for pain management, respiratory and digestive health, as well as our nutritional and personal care products, are available in more than 90 countries. We market 10 consumer healthcare brands with more than $100 million in annual sales in 2017, and two of the top 10 global OTC brands – Advil®, the world’s number one analgesic brand, and Centrum®, the world’s top-selling multivitamin. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 35 Growing Our Consumer Portfolio Inspired by consumer insights, Pfizer continually enhances its products to meet evolving customer needs and preferences. For instance, in 2017 we added gummy forms to our Emergen-C® family of products and launched new Emergen-C Energy+ and Emergen-C Hydration+ sport drink mixes. We also expanded our Centrum® MultiGummies® offerings in the U.S., introducing Centrum® MultiGummies® Multi + Omega-3, a multivitamin formulated with nutrients for heart, brain and eye health, and Centrum® MultiGummies® Multi + Beauty, with biotin and other nutrients to support a beautiful body plus hair, skin and nails. We also launched Nexium® 24HR ClearMinis™, meeting consumer needs for frequent heartburn relief in easy-to-swallow capsules, and Advil® Liqui-Gels® minis, which deliver fast, powerful pain relief, at one-third the size of normal Liqui-Gels®. Bringing Our Products to Consumers in Need Pfizer has a proud heritage of supporting U.S. troops at home and abroad. During the 2017 holiday season, we donated our consumer products to Operation Gratitude and the USO to support U.S. troops deployed overseas. In 2017, we donated more than 540,000 ChapStick®, Advil®, Robitussin®, Emergen-C® and other products to organizations such as the American Red Cross, Americares and Direct Relief International. Empowering People to Take Health and Wellness into Their Own Hands In 2017, Pfizer launched an ambitious, digital content partnership in the U.S. with Meredith Corporation. Online articles, videos, listicles and other content featured in leading consumer publications, such as Better Homes & Gardens, Eating Well, Shape, Martha Stewart Living and Parents, reached millions of consumers to help them take health and wellness into their own hands. Similarly, to advance understanding of how self-care, aging and technology are impacting trends in health and wellness, we hosted a panel discussion at the International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics World Congress. Participants examined the impact of aging on consumer behavior and the need for investments in health care technologies, such as e-labeling and mobile medical apps, as well as how the conversion of prescription medicines to OTC availability could potentially benefit consumers who are 60 years of age and older. Evaluating Our Consumer Healthcare Portfolio Pfizer announced in October that it is reviewing strategic alternatives for its Consumer Healthcare business. A range of options are being considered, including a full or partial separation of the Consumer Healthcare business from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. Pfizer may ultimately determine to retain the business. This review of strategic alternatives is part of Pfizer’s continuing efforts to allocate resources and capital to best serve patients and maximize value for its shareholders. Pfizer expects that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for Pfizer Consumer Healthcare would be made during 2018. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 36 Inflammation & Immunology (I&I) Pfizer is a leader in applying cutting-edge science to help transform the lives of people with inflammatory and autoimmune conditions. Over the last several decades, the treatment paradigms for these diseases have expanded from steroids to biologics to novel treatment classes across disease areas to immuno-modulation and precision medicine. We have been a catalyst in this progress, consistently developing and delivering innovative medicines and bringing multiple I&I therapies to market. Today, we are focused on advancing the standard of care in three areas: rheumatology, medical dermatology and gastroenterology. At Pfizer I&I, we also go beyond medicine to truly put our patients-first mission into action by engaging more closely with the communities we serve. Striving to Address Patient Needs in Rheumatology Pfizer has been committed to improving patients’ lives in rheumatology for more than 60 years, including the introduction of Xeljanz® (tofacitinib) for moderate-to-severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in 2012, and Xeljanz® XR (tofacitinib) in 2016. The Xeljanz® extended-release formulation is designed to deliver the drug at a slower release rate than Xeljanz twice daily, allowing for once-daily dosing. With additional approvals in 2017 in the EU and China, Xeljanz® is now approved in more than 80 countries and has been prescribed to more than 100,000 patients worldwide. In 2017, global sales for Xeljanz® reached $1 billion. Building on Pfizer’s heritage in rheumatology, in December we announced the approval of Xeljanz and Xeljanz XR for people with active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in the U.S. Psoriatic arthritis is a complex, progressive and, at times, debilitating disease with an unpredictable course, and the approval of Xeljanz® in PsA is an important step forward for patients seeking new treatments. Going beyond medicines, Pfizer has been working to address difficult-to-tackle topics that the RA community has identified, including intimacy, relationships and communication. In 2017, we hosted our second ReAL Talk Summit, bringing together patient advocates and experts to discuss these often taboo topics. Many of the insights from the ReAL Talk Summit are brought to the broader community through Arthritis.com, an online resource where people impacted by arthritis can find inspiration, advice, tools and disease information. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 37 Advancing Treatments in Gastroenterology In July, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) initiated review of our supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Xeljanz for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC). The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date for Xeljanz in UC is June 2018. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) also initiated review of Xeljanz in UC in August. If approved by the FDA, Xeljanz would be the first oral Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor available as a therapeutic option for people living with moderately to severely active UC. Making a Difference for People Living with Eczema In early 2017, Eucrisa® (crisaborole) was launched in the U.S., bringing the first new topical treatment option in more than a decade to adults and children living with mild-to-moderate eczema, the most common form of eczema. Eucrisa is steroid-free and can be used on all skin tones, and almost everywhere on the body, for patients as young as two years of age. Global regulatory submissions are also currently being evaluated for Eucrisa. Internal Medicine In Internal Medicine, Pfizer’s mission is to drive innovation that prevents, diagnoses and treats the most prevalent diseases facing our society. Our portfolio of leading medicines treats common and debilitating health problems faced by today’s largest patient populations, such as heart disease, stroke, smoking and pain. Internal Medicine’s early discovery efforts focus on underserved areas in cardiovascular and metabolic diseases and pain. With dedicated research teams based in a life sciences hub in Cambridge, Massachusetts, we are forging ahead with novel approaches and technologies seeking to address some of the most complex and devastating diseases of our time, including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and chronic pain. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 38 Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) remain the leading cause of global mortality, accounting for one in every two adult deaths worldwide. The rates of CVDrelated morbidity, including heart failure, peripheral arterial disease and nephropathy, are increasing as more patients survive hearts attacks and the population ages. In addition, metabolic diseases, specifically type 2 diabetes and obesity, are major health problems that have reached epidemic proportions worldwide. We are dedicated to developing therapies to treat, slow or prevent disease progression and improve the quality of life for patients with these diseases. Highlighting the Need for Increased Atrial Fibrillation Screening Atrial fibrillation (AFib) is a common risk factor for stroke and, despite wellestablished risks, an estimated one out of three patients with AFib remains undiagnosed. Together with Alliance partner Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), Pfizer sponsored Preventing Stroke: Uneven Progress, a research report by the Economist Intelligence Unit, a division of The Economist and a leader in global business intelligence, to assess needs and opportunities for reducing risks of stroke. Based on an analysis of 20 countries, the report found that more than 75 percent of people 65 years of age and older are not screened for AFib and other common stroke risk factors during routine primary care examinations. We are committed to helping overcome the challenges of AFib diagnosis and detection, with the goal of ultimately decreasing the incidence of stroke. As part of this commitment, we are collaborating with partners around the globe on a variety of initiatives to better understand the scale and scope of challenges in preventing stroke. Real-World Data Analyses and Clinical Data for Eliquis® Eliquis® (apixaban), Pfizer’s oral anticoagulant developed and commercialized in collaboration with BMS, has continued to generate data regarding its use through our clinical trial program and analyses from our real-world data program. The Phase 4 EMANATE clinical trial measured the occurrence of acute stroke, systemic embolism, major bleeding, clinically relevant non-major bleeding and all-cause death in non-valvular atrial fibrillation patients undergoing cardioversion. Analyses from our real-world data program, ACROPOLIS™, focus on the use of Eliquis in routine clinical practice, including among patients considered at high risk of stroke or major bleeding due to age, risk prediction scores and other cardiovascular comorbidities. The results of these studies and analyses continue to grow the body of evidence about Eliquis and further our understanding of the patients who may benefit from treatment. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 39 Pursuing Breakthroughs in the Treatment of NASH Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a serious, progressive liver disease that affects an estimated three to five percent of the global population. Currently there are no approved medicines for NASH. The disease is expected to be the leading cause of liver transplants within the next decade. A critical first step toward successful NASH treatment will be improving diagnostics. Pfizer is working collaboratively with many stakeholders to explore possible diagnostic tools that address the critical need for non-invasive biomarkers and imaging technologies to replace the cumbersome and expensive liver biopsy currently needed to confirm diagnosis. We are taking a comprehensive, data-driven, multi-pathway approach that explores different and potentially complementary mechanisms of action in NASH. Three assets are in clinical development, and several potentially first-in-class pre-clinical candidates are under investigation. Our objective is to treat NASH by reducing excessive fat content and inflammation in the liver and ultimately reversing scar tissue formation (or fibrosis) in the liver. Pain Global estimates suggest that 20 percent of adults suffer from pain and 10 percent are newly diagnosed with chronic pain each year. In the U.S., about 100 million adults – one in three – suffer from chronic pain. Three main types of pathophysiology can be considered to result in pain in the majority of patients: nociceptive pain, neuropathic pain and sensory hypersensitivity. It is important to recognize that multiple pain conditions may coexist, and chronic pain may change over time. Developing Novel Therapies for Chronic Pain Pfizer and Eli Lilly and Company are co-developing tanezuamb, an investigational chronic pain treatment being studied for osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. It is estimated that there are more than 27 million people in the U.S. currently living with osteoarthritis and 23 million living with chronic low back pain. Many of these people are not able to achieve adequate pain relief despite treatment with various types of pain medications. If approved, tanezumab would be the first in a new class of non-opioid chronic pain medications known as nerve growth factor (NGF) inhibitors. By inhibiting NGF, tanezumab may help to keep pain signals produced by muscles, skin and organs from reaching the spinal cord and brain. Tanezumab has a novel mechanism of action that acts in a different manner than opioids and other analgesics, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., ibuprofen and acetaminophen). Importantly, there is no clinical or non-clinical evidence to indicate that inhibition of NGF would result in addiction, dependence or abuse. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 40 Accelerating Research in Pain Management The National Institutes of Health (NIH) plays a vital role in the U.S. scientific and biomedical ecosystem. Pfizer advocated for the 21st Century Cures Act, which provided for increased NIH funding, and we applaud the implementation of Section 1003, which establishes an account for the State Response to the Opioid Abuse Crisis. We also joined the NIH in a new public-private partnership designed to accelerate research of novel pain therapies. Through this partnership we can leverage our broad scientific expertise in pain therapeutics and focus on accelerating the development of new, non-opioid pain medications. The NIH Industry Partnership focuses on: • Accelerating the development of non-opioid analgesics to manage chronic pain; • Developing therapies to counteract and reverse overdosing; • Discovering new, innovative medicines to treat opioid addiction, including the use of non-opioid addiction and overdose therapies; • Leveraging precision medicine approaches to identify genetic variants that are associated with addiction behaviors; and • Developing biomarkers that help guide clinical trial development and speed up development of new therapies. Continuing to Provide Benefit with Lyrica® In October, the FDA approved Lyrica® CR (pregabalin) extended release tablets CV as once-daily therapy for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and the management of postherpetic neuralgia. Lyrica CR offers a new treatment option for patients managing these oftendebilitating pain conditions, with the convenience of once-daily dosing. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 41 Global Stroke Prevention Policies View infographic Oncology Pfizer’s advances in oncology exemplify the power of scientific innovation to transform lives. From immuno-oncology to cell therapy to the continued evolution of personalized medicine, our portfolio and pipeline of cutting-edge therapies aim to change the way the world approaches cancer treatment. We apply that same rigor to meeting the day-to-day emotional, financial and educational needs of these patients in order to help improve their lives. In 2017, Pfizer Oncology achieved a large number of product approvals by the FDA, EMA and regulatory authorities around the globe. These approvals included Bavencio® (avelumab) – in partnership with EMD Serono, the biopharmaceutical business of Merck KGaA – an immuno-oncology agent and the first approved therapy for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, a rare and aggressive skin cancer, as well as for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) who have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, or who have disease progression within 12 months of 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 42 neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy, Besponsa™ (inotuzumab ozogamicin) for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and Mylotarg™ (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed CD33-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or for patients two years of age and older with CD33-positive AML who have experienced a relapse or who have not responded to initial treatment (refractory), as well as expanded indications for Ibrance® (palbociclib) in metastatic breast cancer, Sutent® (sunitinib malate) for adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, and Bosulif® (bosutinib) in newly-diagnosed chronic phase (CP) Philadelphia chromosomepositive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia. Mindful that patients need support in managing their life with cancer, we worked closely with the professional and advocacy communities to develop and expand programs like Pfizer Oncology Together™, a one-stop shop for patients to get resources related to our therapies, and This Is Living With Cancer™, which helps provide additional tools for cancer patients, their families and caregivers.. Read more about how Pfizer is innovating in the oncology space to change the way health care professionals and patients approach cancer. Rare Disease Through the application of our science, knowledge and expertise, we can help make a significant impact on the lives of patients suffering from rare diseases and address their unmet medical needs. Our focus on rare disease builds on more than two decades of experience, a dedicated research unit focusing on rare disease and a global portfolio of pipeline and marketed medicines within several disease areas that include hemophilia, sickle cell disease, amyloidosis, neuromuscular and inherited metabolic disorders. The science behind our work in rare disease combines pioneering clinical research and a deep understanding of how diseases work, with insights from strategic collaborations with academic researchers, patients and other companies to deliver transformative treatments and solutions. One area where Pfizer sees incredible potential is in gene therapy. We have been working for many years to explore the promise of gene therapy by leveraging our expertise and through strategic investments, including manufacturing facilities, new partnerships and collaborations. In 2017, we 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 43 invested $100 million in a facility in North Carolina to support manufacturing of innovative gene therapies, building on our 2016 acquisition of Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc., a biotechnology company focused on gene therapy. We also signed an exclusive, global collaboration and license agreement with Californiabased Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. for the development and commercialization of gene therapy programs for hemophilia A. Read more about how Pfizer is exploring new avenues to accelerate development of novel medicines to treat rare diseases. Vaccines Pfizer has a rich history in vaccine research and development, and the significant impact of our vaccines dates back more than a century. Today, our mission is to “protect lives with innovative vaccines to fight serious disease worldwide,” and Pfizer Vaccines employees are helping people around the globe live healthier lives. A major milestone in 2017 was the approval for Trumenba® (Meningococcal Group B Vaccine) in Europe and Australia for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B (MenB) in individuals 10 years of age and older, as well as in Canada for individuals 10 through 25 years of age. This was followed by seven subsequent launches in the U.K., Malta, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Portugal. The broader availability of Trumenba reinforces our dedication to advancing novel vaccines that can help protect adolescents and young adults, a population at an increased risk for meningococcal disease. Our vaccine research and development program focuses on the life continuum – spanning pediatric, adolescent and adult health. We are working to develop a vaccine to help protect newborns against pathogens such as Group B Streptococcus infection by vaccinating their pregnant mothers, and the development of vaccines for potentially deadly adolescent and adult infections, including meningococcal disease, pneumococcal disease, and diseases caused by Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium difficile. Read more about how Pfizer is helping prevent infectious diseases to improve overall global health. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 44 Emerging Markets PIH Emerging Markets focuses on the specialized needs of the developing and emerging world, using all of the resources available to us and our vast experience to bring Pfizer’s portfolio of innovative medicines and vaccines to patients and people in more than 100 markets across the world. Through unique commercial models and innovative solutions and partnerships, our goal is to accelerate access to the Pfizer innovative portfolio for patients and make a meaningful difference for the health and wellbeing of the more than five billion people living in emerging markets. In 2017, the PIH Emerging Markets team obtained approval for and launched 40 innovative medicines and vaccines from its portfolio across our markets. How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic public health solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals By fueling innovative partnerships to advance public health, including collaborations with NGOs, governments, foundations, social entrepreneurs and colleagues, we are seeking to catalyze creative approaches to accelerate progress and improve care. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Global Businesses – PIH 45 OUR SECTION BUSINESS, TAG OUR PURPOSE Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the United Nations (UN) officially introduced its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to transform our world and “leave no one behind” by 2030. The goals were adopted by 193 nations, and the UN has called for broad-based support of the SDGs, including active involvement by the private sector. Pfizer supports the SDGs and works to align its scientific focus and corporate objectives to improve global public health impact and sustainable development. Achieving good health and well-being is integral to all 17 of the goals, and is specifically addressed in Goal 3, which states that every person deserves access to quality health care. Throughout this report, you’ll see the SDG icons at the end of each section to showcase how the work we do every day is mapped to meeting these goals by 2030. Read more about the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Sustainable Development Goals 46 Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals While Pfizer is committed to helping achieve all 17 SDGs, those listed below are closely aligned to our mission as a research and development-based biopharmaceutical company: Driving Progress Toward the Sustainable Development Goals We combine our resources with the expertise of our partners to directly support progress toward several SDGs. View infographic Driving Good Health and Well-Being (Goal 3) At Pfizer, our purpose is to bring innovative therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. This forms the basis of our commitment to helping achieve Goal 3, delivering Good Health and Well-Being. Good health is fundamental to advancing all of the SDGs, each of which directly benefits from or contributes to advances in public health. By combining our resources with the efforts of global, regional and local partners, Pfizer is developing, implementing and evaluating innovative solutions for some of the most pressing global health challenges. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Sustainable Development Goals 47 Pfizer Helps Progress Towards Gender Equality (Goal 5) Watch how Pfizer seeks to empower and mobilize women around the world through partnerships, as part of our support of Goal 5: Gender Equality. Watch the video Encouraging Our Colleagues to Support the SDGs At Pfizer, we aim to inspire our colleagues to embrace the SDGs and give back to their communities. To recognize individuals who have shown enthusiasm and commitment in this area, we enhanced our annual Pfizer VOL.UNTEERZ Challenge, a global call-to-action designed to recognize and celebrate the volume of colleagues’ volunteer service in local communities around the world. To reinforce and build on Pfizer’s support of the SDGs, the VOL.UNTEERZ Challenge asks applicants to indicate which of the 17 SDGs their volunteer work most closely impacts. The Challenge then engages colleagues globally to vote on their favorite volunteer project, and donations are made in the names of one grand prize winner and nine finalists to the organizations for which they volunteered. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Sustainable Development Goals 48 Supporting Social Entrepreneurship Through Accelerate2030 Partnerships are a critical component of Pfizer’s business and a contributor to our success. We are proud to put the science of social entrepreneurship to work with innovative organizations that align with our mission of advancing the SDGs. Accelerate2030, co-initiated by the Impact Hub Geneva and the United Nations Development Programme, is a nine-month capacity-building program with a mission to support social ventures that contribute toward the SDGs. The program selected the ten best ventures from 300+ applicants across 17 countries in four continents, and connected them to a network of expert partners that will help them grow their impact internationally. Accelerate2030’s vision is to become a global, multi-stakeholder, cross-border scaling accelerator with measurable impact on the SDGs. In October, we joined the SDG Factory in Geneva, Switzerland, to lead a discussion on Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals, as part of Accelerate2030’s Scaling Week. The interactive session focused on how social entrepreneurs can work with multinational organizations to accelerate and achieve the SDGs. Showcasing Pfizer’s Progress Toward the SDGs Across the U.S. To spread awareness of the SDGs and the work Pfizer does to help ensure that every individual lives the healthiest life possible, we went across the U.S. to showcase our progress against the goals. Through an interactive exhibit booth, we shared information on the SDGs and amplified Pfizer’s support at key conferences, including South by Southwest (Austin, Texas), Washington Ideas (Washington, D.C.) and Power of Purpose: The Corporate Responsibility Summit (New York, N.Y.). 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Sustainable Development Goals 49 The booth featured an exhibit of unique global health tools to provide tangible examples of how Pfizer-supported programs are helping drive progress toward achieving the SDGs. All of the tools displayed supported a specific SDG: • Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being – Baby onesies made from donated T-shirts that incentivize mothers in rural Kenya to give birth in clinics, developed by 2020 MicroClinic, an organization funded through the Pfizer Foundation Global Health Innovation Grants • Goal 5: Gender Equality – A $3 clean birthing kit from ayzh, a social enterprise in India that is part of the Pfizer Foundation Global Health Innovation Grants cohort • Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation – A dosing stick used during mass drug administrations for trachoma, representing Pfizer’s antibiotic donations and work with the International Trachoma Initiative • Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals – A cooler used to transport vaccines to remote communities, highlighting Pfizer’s partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the UN Foundation’s Shot@Life campaign 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Sustainable Development Goals 50 Progress Made toward Transforming SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being by 2030 Target by 2030 Progress Target 3.1: By 2030, reduce the global We support a program with the 2020 MicroClinic in Kenya to implement evidenced-based interventions that decrease maternal and maternal mortality ratio to less than neonatal mortality and improve access to antenatal and postnatal services, including access to a skilled birth attendant. 70 per 100,000 live births Target 3.2: By 2030, end preventable The Pfizer Foundation has partnered with Save the Children to expand a pilot program that improves access to critical health care for deaths of newborns and children under women and children by combining family planning services and immunization services. For women living in Malawi, where most people five years of age, with all countries make the equivalent of $1 per day, quality health care is critical to fostering an equal and fair society. However, access to health services is aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to not easy to come by in many rural areas, and women often have few resources to spend on health care and minimal time to make clinic at least as low as 12 per 1,000 live births visits. Through the Save the Children partnership, women who bring their children to health care facilities for immunizations are also and under-five mortality to at least as offered family planning counseling at the same site, cutting down on the number of visits and ensuring mothers receive care themselves. low as 25 per 1,000 live births. Participants in the program report better health outcomes for newborns, higher rates of completion for first-year immunization schedules, improved family planning outcomes and increased confidence and ability for mothers to advocate for their families’ health. Additionally, through our partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, we provide Prevenar 13® (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) to infants and children through Gavi’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC). Through the AMC, Pfizer has committed to supply up to 740 million doses of this critical pneumococcal vaccine at our lowest global price through 2025. We also support a project with the U.S. Fund for UNICEF to expand use of mobile health platforms to improve immunization delivery and health outcomes for children in their first 1,000 days of life in Uganda. Target 3.5: Strengthen the prevention The Pfizer Naloxone Access Program reflects Pfizer’s longstanding commitment to improve health outcomes by expanding access to and treatment of substance abuse, medicines and ensuring patient safety through educational activities associated with appropriate use of prescription medicines. including narcotic drug abuse and In 2017, we committed to donate up to 250,000 doses per year of Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection to Direct Relief – a humanitarian aid harmful use of alcohol. organization that provides support in underserved communities and in emergency settings, including treating opioid overdosing – over the course of the next four years (1 million total doses). Direct Relief distributes the product to its nationwide network of more than 4,000 nonprofit sites in the U.S. Target 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal Since 2014, the Pfizer Foundation has awarded $12 million as part of its Women and Children’s Health portfolio to address barriers to access to sexual and reproductive accessing health care, including: health care services, including for family • Working with PACE (the Program for Accessible Health Communication and Education), the affiliate of Population Services planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive International (PSI) in Uganda. This program is specifically aimed at young women and adolescent girls. It has been designed to health into national strategies and overcome barriers to access and to respond to young people’s sexual and reproductive needs in a meaningful and engaging way. programs. The program also increases access to family planning information and products, as well as other reproductive health services, including HIV testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections. • An initiative with CARE to improve the family planning counseling and clinical skills of health care providers and integrate these services into routine immunization delivery, while reducing misconceptions about family planning in under-served communities in Benin. • An innovative partnership with the International Rescue Committee that provides access to vital health interventions by creating a one-stop-shop for the delivery of immunization and family planning services. Through a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation we are working to help broaden access to Pfizer’s long-acting injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), for women most in need in some of the world’s poorest countries. Since the collaboration launched, with the help of a consortium of organizations from both the private and public sectors, more than 16 million units have been shipped across 23 countries in the developing world, potentially reaching more than 4 million women. Read more about Access to Medicine Target 3a: Strengthen the Pfizer is committed to helping address the tobacco epidemic by working with governments, policymakers, health care providers and implementation of the WHO communities around the world, with a focus on improving access to and reimbursement for smoking cessation treatment. At the 7th Framework Convention on Tobacco European Conference on Tobacco or Health (ECToH), which gathered 400 policy makers, scientists, health educators, advocacy officers Control in all countries, as appropriate. and health professionals involved in tobacco control, Pfizer sponsored a symposium entitled “The Treatment of Tobacco Dependence: From Policy to Action.” This event featured renowned experts discussing the importance of smoking cessation and the need to improve access to smoking cessation services and treatments, to achieve public health objectives. * The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Sustainable Development Goals 51 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence At Pfizer, our purpose is to bring innovative medicines and vaccines to patients and healthy individuals. To meet that commitment, we take a rigorous scientific approach to our global manufacturing and supply network. With 58 manufacturing sites around the world under Pfizer Global Supply (PGS), we harness data to inform our decisions and processes, creating a highly efficient manufacturing and supply network that continually optimizes the way we deliver medicines to our patients. In 2017, we continued to strive to set the industry standard for quality, safety and value in the development and manufacturing of our medicines. Leveraging Science to Create Supply Chain Solutions Pfizer’s goal is for patients to receive uninterrupted access to our medicines and vaccines. We continue to use operational and supply chain data from enterprise systems to identify processes to better meet the needs of patients. In 2017, this information helped us address drug shortages of several injectable medicines used in hospitals and other clinical settings. Within PGS, our manufacturing teams work with health care bodies to put solutions in place to help expedite supply recovery for important medicines. One critical element of Pfizer supply recovery activities has been providing scientific data to regulatory authorities to support extended-use dating for products in the supply chain. We are also working to minimize supply shortages in the future by investing in advanced technology and capabilities. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 52 A Heritage and Future of Manufacturing Cures A Heritage and Future of Manufacturing Cures Pfizer’s long heritage of creating cures is built on outstanding innovation not only in research and development but also in manufacturing. View infographic Transforming Molecules to Reach Millions Did you know it can take 400 raw materials, 581 manufacturing steps, 678 different quality tests, 1,700 colleagues and two-and-a-half years to manufacture a single dose of a vaccine? Watch how our colleagues at the Sanford, North Carolina, manufacturing site and Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin, distribution center come together to create and distribute one dose of a vaccine. WATCH THE VIDEO 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 53 Manufacturing and Supply Chain Contributes to U.S. Economic Growth American Pharmaceutical Innovation and Job Creation Pfizer has a long history of manufacturing in the U.S., and since our founding nearly 170 years ago, we have been proudly headquartered in New York. In the past five years, we invested $2.1 billion in U.S. manufacturing, and our 15 U.S. manufacturing sites, employing more than 11,000 people, help produce almost 60 percent of our medicines. View infographic Bringing Manufacturing Jobs to North Carolina To mark National Manufacturing Day in October, Pfizer and local political leaders joined Sanford, North Carolina, colleagues to celebrate expansion plans for the new state-of-the-art gene therapy facility under construction. The event featured a View Into the Future, including an exhibit and virtual tour of the future manufacturing facility. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 54 “Pfizer has a rich history of manufacturing life-saving medicines – dating back to 1849. It is an honor, on behalf of Pfizer Global Supply, to have our Sanford facility represent Pfizer for Manufacturing Day. We build on that rich history and look to the future, every day, and today we celebrate a view into the future of our new gene therapy facility. We’re very excited about it and the impact it will have on patients.” Mary Oates Vice President, Innovative Operations and Network Excellence, Pfizer Global Supply Learn more about how the biopharmaceutical industry in America is contributing to global health and generating economic value for local communities in Forbes. Read more about our work in vaccines and gene therapy. Reaching Patients in Saudi Arabia with Locally Made Products for the First Time This year, PGS completed construction of a new manufacturing facility in King Abdullah Economic City (KAEC). The new site – the first for Pfizer in Saudi Arabia – will allow patients to access Pfizer medicines, such as Lipitor® (atorvastatin calcium), Lyrica® (pregabalin) and Zithromax® (azithromycin). Our site in Saudi Arabia will enable us to manufacture, sell and distribute products that positively impact local patients. The Saudi Arabia site will be the first Pfizer plant in the Africa-Middle East region to serialize Pfizer medicines and assign and apply a unique identification code to each unit of sale. Serialization helps further secure our supply chain. This exacting method is a critical factor to help ensure that patients have secure access to our quality medicines. Collaborating to Modernize Glass Packaging In July, Pfizer, Corning Incorporated and Merck & Co., Inc. introduced Corning Valor™ Glass as an innovative glass packaging alternative that enhances the storage and delivery of injectable medicines in vials and cartridges. Valor Glass is expected to provide more reliable access to medicines essential to public health. To inform the development of this new offering, we leveraged our deep scientific knowledge of pharmaceutical formulations and complex manufacturing processes. The Corning Valor Glass packaging offers superior chemical durability, strength and damage resistance, which enables increased throughput and more reliable access to state-of-the-art medicines for patients, while maintaining a high level of quality assurance. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 55 The White House Office of American Innovation has encouraged the initiative as a model of cross-industry collaboration and economic investment. Pfizer’s chairman and chief executive officer, Ian Read, met with the CEOs of Merck and Corning at a White House event in July to discuss the progress made as a result of their collaboration. “We joined forces with Corning to advance this revolutionary new glass for medicines critical to public health. Our initial trial results with Valor Glass show promise and we are working with Corning to assess the full potential of this glass solution on products at several of our manufacturing sites. This collaborative effort supports our focus on bringing the highest quality products to patients.” Ian Read Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mastering the Science of Donating Medicine Pfizer earned a spot in the Guinness World Records in 2017 by contributing to the largest donation of medicines ever made in a 24-hour period – one of the most impactful donations of its kind. Representing Pfizer, colleagues from Intercompany Operations in Zaventem, Belgium, teamed up with other pharmaceutical companies from around the world to improve the lives of patients suffering from Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs), which affect more than 1 billion people in the world’s poorest communities. Pfizer contributed to this record-breaking initiative by donating Zithromax® to more than 30 countries. The participating companies donated more than 207 million doses of medicines to help treat NTDs. These medicines help millions of people across the world lead healthier, more productive lives and we are proud to contribute to the science of meaningful giving. Becoming a Leader in Environmentally Efficient Manufacturing Sites Our new manufacturing site in Suzhou, China, was recently certified as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum, an exceptional achievement for a pharmaceutical campus. LEED is a rating system devised by the U.S. Green Building Council to evaluate the environmental performance of a building and encourage sustainable design. The crossfunctional team that supported the design, development and construction of this site was committed to building a green and environmentally sustainable facility and looked for ways to integrate our commitment to the environment into every detail. This tremendous achievement aligns with our broader commitment to reducing our environmental footprint across our internal and external network. Read more about our Environment, Health & Safety work. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 56 Inspiring Youth to Join the World of Modern Manufacturing We are committed to the science of learning and inspiring students to join the important world of manufacturing. At Pfizer’s manufacturing facility in Kalamazoo, Michigan, we work closely with local community organizations, grade schools and high schools, four-year universities, community colleges and trade schools to help educate students about dynamic careers in science and manufacturing, and to raise awareness of the skilled trade training and development programs we offer. Through partnerships with organizations like Communities in Schools of Kalamazoo, Pfizer colleagues engage students in hands-on activities to explore science, technology, engineering, math and skilled trades-related careers. WATCH THE VIDEO In September, Pfizer partnered with the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) on the “Creators Wanted” campaign, a U.S. initiative that addresses workforce challenges by recruiting individuals to consider a career in manufacturing. “As a U.S.-based, global leader in the discovery and manufacturing of life-saving medicines, Pfizer is proud to partner with the NAM on this important initiative. Our PGS team includes skilled tradespeople, production colleagues, line operators, process engineers, quality control professionals, engineers, chemists and countless others. We are committed to manufacturing high-quality medicines and making them available to patients when and where they are needed. I am honored to see our colleagues’ dedication and commitment highlighted.” Kirsten Lund-Jurgensen, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and President, Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) As part of the campaign, our Kalamazoo colleagues talked about why they are passionate about manufacturing, the unique science of engineering and the innovation they bring to their job every day. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 57 How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic public health solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure We catalyze scientific innovation through cutting-edge research initiatives and unique, results-driven partnerships in order to deliver novel medicines and vaccines to individuals around the world. Goal 12: Responsible Consumption & Production Throughout the lifecycle of our products, we are working towards reducing our carbon footprint and increasing energy efficiency, decreasing dependence on limited resources and reducing waste. Goal 3: Climate Action Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals By fueling innovative partnerships to advance public health, including collaborations with NGOs, governments, foundations, social entrepreneurs and colleagues, we are seeking to catalyze creative approaches to accelerate progress and improve care. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 58 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Our Culture At Pfizer, we believe our internal culture is as essential to our purpose as our external reputation – and that the two are inextricably linked. With that in mind, our OWNIT! culture empowers all colleagues to “act like an owner.” We expect every colleague to take personal responsibility for their careers and be accountable for their work in order to make a positive impact on the business. Our culture is built on the power of our colleagues’ passion for their work and the stakeholders we serve, and we strive to foster an environment where that passion can be channeled into speed, decisiveness and integrity. This means that innovation and new ideas are met with openness and careful consideration, not skepticism and dismissal. And it means everyone, regardless of their role, contributes to our success. Our OWNIT! culture aligns every colleague to our purpose, positions Pfizer for long-term success and, ultimately, benefits the patients we serve. www.pfizer.com/careers/en/culture Taking Our Culture to the Next Level with Head, Heart and Guts Leadership Every day, the behaviors and interactions of Pfizer’s colleagues bring our OWNIT! culture to life. By focusing on the choices we make and the actions we take, we demonstrate our personal stake in Pfizer’s mission and purpose and our accountability for the positive results. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 59 In February 2017, we introduced Head, Heart and Guts Leadership, a simple, memorable way for colleagues to exhibit leadership, regardless of their role or level. This concept aligns our culture with our business environment through six leadership behaviors that drive our success today and into the future: Head leadership encourages us to be decisive, strategic and analytical in how we address the complex issues and dilemmas we face as we strive to make a difference to patients and customers. Heart leadership drives us to be passionate about what we do and inspire others to learn, grow and succeed. And Guts leadership gives us the courage and resilience to face ambiguity and adversity. It’s that inner strength that allows us to push through and make sure that strategy and compassion are combined with the will to achieve: Focusing on Leadership on OWNIT! Day Each year on OWNIT! Day, Pfizer focuses on different, relevant themes that bring our culture to life. This year’s OWNIT! Day on April 5 focused on “Head, Heart and Guts Leadership @ Every Level” of the organization. The key takeaway from the 2017 OWNIT! Day was that while behaviors may come to life differently depending on a colleague’s role, accountability and context, Head, Heart and Guts defines leadership as behaviors – not job titles – that colleagues at every level of the organization can demonstrate. Building Head, Heart and Guts Leadership @ Every Level Pfizer offers innovative learning and employee development experiences to enable everyone at Pfizer to maximize their contribution to business results. It starts with programs that provide colleagues with a focused and engaging introduction to Pfizer. Once the foundation is laid, we offer a set of specific programs for colleagues, managers and senior leaders enabling them to continue to learn, adapt and stay agile as they embrace their leadership development. Launched in 2017, our new development programs – under the rubric Leadership @ Every Level – advance the Head, Heart and Guts behaviors to drive culture and performance. A Head, Heart and Guts 360 Feedback Tool drives self-awareness and development opportunities by collecting structured input from managers, direct reports (if applicable), peers and others, allowing colleagues to understand how they are viewed from a variety of perspectives. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 60 Building Head, Heart and Guts Leadership @ Every Level Our organization is becoming more I’ve learned the significant impact I have complex. Learning to deal with ambiguity as a leader, and the even larger impact I and a matrix is vital to Pfizer’s success. can have on the culture. The feedback and ideas that I received All leaders are dealing with significant from my peers was invaluable. I am taking challenges and decisions and we can action in each and every one of those benefit from diﬀerent perspectives outside ideas. of our function. I now see how diﬀerent the issues are across the organization and how eﬀectively diverse inputs and approaches help to solve them. Reinventing HR for Employees on the Go Recognizing the need to be more in tune with the needs of an increasingly mobile and technology-dependent economy – including a need for a standard platform that allows for self-service and greater simplicity and efficiency – Pfizer implemented a cloud-based HR On Demand solution for colleagues in 2017. This undertaking required a fundamental shift in our processes and the introduction of an entirely new way of engaging with HR and approximately 400 business applications with commercial, financial and manufacturing impact for Pfizer. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 61 “The rate of change in technology and “We designed HR On Demand with our how we do our work is rapid. It is driving colleagues in mind to help ensure easy every business to rethink data. Providing access to business information that was our colleagues with expanded access to most relevant for them. It is the first time their own data affords them greater Pfizer launched an enterprise application accountability and control. Self-service, of this magnitude in a single day. It has people-centric tools make it easier for touched every colleague, and 100 percent managers to own their workforce decisions, of colleagues have accessed the system, while enabling HR to focus more on the which makes it easier for everyone to strategic direction of the business.” achieve better business results.” Chuck Hill Jeff Keisling Executive Vice President, Worldwide Human Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Resources, Pfizer Finance & Business Operations, Pfizer Building Success Through Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and inclusion are just as crucial to building a successful business as they are to building a vibrant culture. At Pfizer, colleagues of diverse backgrounds and abilities contribute their unique viewpoints and perspectives to all aspects of the business. Diverse colleagues offer a more personal understanding or our customers’ needs and concerns, while inclusive teams are more collaborative, more accepting of difference and more apt to embody a balance between prudence and risk-taking. Our Head, Heart and Guts Leadership behaviors and our “Straight Talk” approach encourage open dialogue and the surfacing of new ideas, which help ensure that we are having the types of candid and constructive conversations needed to make the right decisions for the company and for the patients we serve. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 62 Driving Inclusion with Head, Heart and Guts Head Heart Guts Decisive: Manage complexity Connected: Collaborate with Courageous: Consistently to make timely, informed others to accomplish shared demonstrate accountability decisions. goals. and integrity in the face of challenges. Focused: Develop innovative Inspiring: Motivate and short and long term solutions develop self and others to drive Resilient: Respond to change for our customers and patients. the business forward. with agility and optimism. Understand and leverage Embrace colleagues with Take actions to intentionally the business case for diverse backgrounds and be inclusive. diversity. perspectives. “Diversity and Inclusion bring tremendous value to an organization. We have implemented innovative programs to help ensure we have a diverse workforce and are working to create an environment where all of our colleagues feel valued for their unique personal characteristics and perspectives. It starts by recognizing that we are all personally accountable for creating an inclusive environment. This is a fundamental part of our OWNIT! culture.” Pamela Puryear Senior Vice President and Chief Talent Officer, Pfizer Targeting Diversity & Inclusion Efforts for Maximum Impact In 2017, we expanded our internal audience at Pfizer’s Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Summit, engaged in dialogue with senior leaders and stepped up our sourcing of external diverse talent, including: • This year’s annual D&I Summit included a live Global Town Hall open to all employees, with Pfizer CEO, Ian Read, and Pfizer Board Member, Ron Blaylock, sharing their perspectives on the value of a diverse and inclusive workplace. • Senior leaders and leaders of top-performing diverse talent participated in peer-facilitated Inclusion Commitment Sessions, where they exchanged perspectives, ideas and strategies on inclusive leadership. • Our Diversity Power Breakfasts bring together Pfizer’s senior leaders with diverse senior talent from outside the company to build relationships and source talent. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 63 1 Ian Read Commits to Being a Catalyst CEO Champion for Change: Ian Read has joined more than 40 global CEOs and senior leaders and committed to being a CEO Champion for Change. The CEO Champion for Change commitment is a new initiative sponsored by Catalyst, a leading global nonprofit organization that 2 works to advance diversity, inclusion and gender equality at work Pfizer Joins CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ Pfizer joined a new coalition of more than 150 businesses in a collective commitment to make progress toward advancing diversity and inclusion in our workplace and in our communities. The newly launched CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion will help encourage workplace dialogue on diversity 3 and inclusion, expand education on implicit biases and share best practices. Pfizer Pledges $100 Million to Aid WomenOwned Businesses At the 2017 Global Citizen’s Festival in Hamburg, Germany, Pfizer pledged to source $100 million from women-owned businesses over the next three years. Pfizer’s partnership with WEConnect International is aimed at expanding global supplier diversity and inclusion, and 4 ensuring that more women have the opportunity to compete for business opportunities. Pfizer Receives a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI) The 2017 CEI evaluates LGBTQ-related policies and practices, including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs and public engagement with the LGBTQ community. Pfizer’s efforts in satisfying all of the CEI’s 5 criteria resulted in a 100 percent ranking and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality. Pfizer Signs the AARP Employer Pledge Program AARP’s Employer Pledge Program is a national effort to help employers solve their current and future staffing challenges and direct job seekers to employers that value and are hiring experienced workers. By signing the pledge, Pfizer acknowledges they believe in equal opportunity for all workers, regardless of age, recognize the value of experienced workers, recruit across diverse age groups and consider all applicants on an equal basis. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 64 Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) At Pfizer, our CRGs play a critical and wide-reaching role in maintaining a culture of diversity and inclusion. CRGs are groups of colleagues who are part of and/or support the goals of a diverse population and offer development opportunities, mentoring and networking for skill-building and career advancement. CRG members contribute their unique backgrounds and viewpoints to help advance Colleague our business, Resource Groupsoutside and they help communities (CRGs) the business through volunteer and philanthropic activities. CRGs are open to any colleague who is part of, or identifies with, a particular community, or anyone who supports the goals and values of that community and wants to be involved in D&I work. Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) Engagement 21,000+ colleagues are actively engaged in 20%+ part of,eor orts CRGs are open to any colleague who isD&I identifies with, a particular community, or anyone who supports the goals and values of that community and wants to be involved in D&I work. of our Engagement workforce 21,000+ colleagues are actively engaged in 20%+ D&I e orts 101 of our workforce CRGs across the globe are focused on all types of diversity, including Asians, blacks, disability, Groups 101 CRGs across the globe are focused on all types Latinos, LGBTQ, Veterans and Women of diversity, including Asians, blacks, disability, Groups Latinos, LGBTQ, Veterans and Women Programs Programs Professional networking: Meet colleagues from all levels of the organization who are eager to o er Professional networking: support, encouragement Meetadvice and practical colleagues as from all levels of thepursue employees organization who are eager to o er their career goals. support, encouragement and practical advice as Business purpose: Get involved in CRG-driven initiatives employees pursue their career goals. that have a clear, positive impact on Pfizer’s goals and strategies and help advance the business. Business purpose: Get involved in CRG-driven initiatives thatDevelopmental have a clear,opportunities: positive impact on Pfizer’s goals and Attend CRG-sponsored strategies and training and help advance development the business. programming, including events focused on personal branding, unconscious bias awareness, mentoring/sponsorship, work-life balance, business acumen and much more. Developmental opportunities: Attend CRG-sponsored Community involvement: Participate as a group in training and countless development local programming, volunteer and philanthropic initiatives.including events focused on personal branding, unconscious bias awareness, mentoring/sponsorship, work-life balance, business acumen Leadership and much opportunities: Assume more. visible leadership and project management roles through active involvement in a CRG. Community involvement: Participate as a group in countless local volunteer and philanthropic initiatives. Leadership opportunities: Assume visible leadership and project management roles through active involvement in a CRG. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 65 Beyond internal culture-building within Pfizer, the CRGs also build external community relationships. From sponsoring scholarships for students to supporting health fairs focused on the unique health care concerns of diverse populations, our CRGs view the world as our community. Key 2017 highlights from the CRGs include: • Pfizer Poland became a cosignatory of the Diversity Charter, an international initiative that identifies organizations that are committed to eliminating discrimination in the workplace and promoting diversity. • Pfizer Belgium hosted a DiversiCom workshop that focused on engaging and encouraging colleagues to think about our potential unconscious biases toward individuals with disabilities in the workplace and to understand how individuals with disabilities experience work. • Pfizer launched the new Take Action for Health web tool, in collaboration with the National Urban League, Anthem, Inc. and City of Hope, to address health disparities among African-Americans. • Through Mentor the Next Generation of Local Scientists, members of Groton’s CRGs helped 18 teams of Norwich Technical High School students practice their presentations for the Connecticut Science & Engineering Fair. • Pfizer’s Business Technology Women’s Leadership Network sponsored the Girls Who Code Summer Immersion Program in New York. The program, which hosted 38 high school students, featured workshops on several topics, including robotics and web apps, as well as Pfizer-led initiatives such as cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, EMTech and Data Analytics, and a field trip to one of Pfizer’s manufacturing sites via virtual reality. Becoming a Catalyst for Change Through the Multicultural Center of Excellence Over the past decade, Pfizer’s outreach and work in America’s multicultural communities have been spearheaded by the Pfizer RxPathways® and Pfizer Government Relations teams, in an effort to increase awareness of our patient assistance program and to help the uninsured and underinsured get access to our medicines. This work led to the development of our Multicultural Center of Excellence (MCoE), which is focused on building strong partnerships with multicultural organizations to help improve health equity across all communities. The MCoE seeks to partner with organizations on activities across four key health care priorities: • Access: Support patients by connecting them to assistance programs that offer insurance support, co-pay assistance and medicines for free or at a savings. • Clinical Trials: Ensure that diverse populations are aware of and understand the clinical trials process. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 66 • Disease Awareness: Educate communities about a variety of disease states, including oncology, pain, smoking cessation, vaccines and sickle cell disease. • Health Care Reform: Raise awareness of resources available for multicultural communities and patients in need to help better manage their health and to support initiatives designed to help reduce health disparities. Pfizer Salutes Links on the Hill Pfizer’s MCoE team sponsored The Links, Incorporated’s Inaugural Legislative Luncheon: Saluting Our Link Sisters on the Hill event in Washington, D.C. With more than 800 women in attendance, the event honored the work of six members of the Congressional Black Caucus for their service and commitment to their communities. Volunteering to Improve Health Care Delivery Around the World In 2017, we welcomed six new colleagues into the Pfizer Global Health Fellows (GHF) Program, our international corporate volunteer program that places Pfizer colleagues in short-term assignments with international development organizations. Now in its 14th year, the program pairs Pfizer colleagues, who possess a variety of professional, medical and business skills, with partner organizations to work together to bring about meaningful and systematic improvements in health service delivery for people in greatest need. Fellows volunteered in Hanoi, Vietnam, with such organizations as FHI 360 and Save the Children, and in Delhi, India, with Population Services International and Project HOPE. Pfizer Global Health Fellows (GHF) By The Numbers 350+ 44 Colleagues Countries 350k 14 Hours of pro bono Years of skills-based service volunteering 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 67 “My fellowship here in Vietnam, in an emerging market, has shown me that thinking BIG is key to reaching our mission as a pharmaceutical company, to help people live healthier lives.” Sonia Braham Communication Manager, Pfizer (France), and 2017 Global Health Fellow with FHI 360, Hanoi, Vietnam “The Project HOPE team and India made me a better person. I can only humbly hope that my contributions hold a value for them too.” Cathy Dunwody Regional Customer Marketing Director, Pfizer (United States), and 2017 Global Health Fellow with Project HOPE, Delhi, India 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 68 How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 4: Quality Education Goal 5: Gender Equality We seek to empower and mobilize women around the world through partnerships aimed at ensuring access to quality healthcare, including newborn immunizations and family planning services. Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Our Culture 69 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Community Health Pfizer is committed to helping patients live the healthiest and fullest lives possible. This is driven by our scientific and rigorous approach to working with our partners as we continually evaluate community health needs and find integrated, long-term solutions that best serve patients. Our deep partnerships with community organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), global health bodies, industry peers and others, inform our understanding of the unique needs of communities and are the foundation upon which we can develop programs that yield meaningful improvements in global health. Pfizer Essential Health is uniquely positioned to serve the unmet needs of patients in developing countries. Many of our medicines are on the World Health Organization’s Model List of Essential Medicines and are critical to improving global public health. The business has a number of initiatives underway or in development in family planning and non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 70 Turning Hope into Action for Underserved Patient Communities We announced the launch of SpringWorks Therapeutics, LLC, a mission-driven medicines company dedicated to developing and advancing innovative new treatments for underserved patient communities. SpringWorks Therapeutics was originally conceived of by Pfizer as an innovative way to advance investigational therapies that may hold significant promise for underserved patients. Bain Capital Life Sciences, Bain Capital Double Impact, OrbiMed Advisors LLC and Life Arc are founding funding partners alongside Pfizer. The company’s collaborative business model is designed to deliver both social and financial returns via partnerships with a variety of stakeholders, including scientists, biopharmaceutical partners, patient groups, funders and philanthropists. SpringWorks Therapeutics is focused on underserved patient populations where there is great medical need. The company is currently advancing studies in four diseases areas – desmoid tumor, neurofibromatosis, hereditary xerocytosis and post-traumatic stress disorder – all of which currently have no cure. SpringWorks Therapeutics plans to expand its pipeline by continuing to partner with other life science companies and academic institutions who share in the company’s mission. “We hope that our investment in SpringWorks Therapeutics will, over time, enable us to realize even more value for patients and society. It started as an idea about a new way to get things done with – and for – patients, and it’s been a tremendous team effort. Along with our partners, we are excited to see it become a reality.” Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D., DFAPA Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer WHAT’S DIFFERENT ABOUT SPRINGWORKS? 1:14 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 71 Reducing Society’s Dependence on Tobacco Tobacco use places a significant health and economic burden on individuals and societies around the world. Smoking is linked to serious illnesses such as cancer, heart disease, stroke, diabetes and lung disease, and kills nearly six million people each year, making tobacco use the leading cause of preventable death worldwide. Smoking is also the world’s top economic burden based on Gross Domestic Product (GDP), putting a strain on the global economy. Pfizer is committed to helping address the tobacco epidemic by working with governments, policy-makers, health care providers and communities around the world, with a focus on improving access to and reimbursement for smoking cessation treatment. At the 7th European Conference on Tobacco or Health (ECToH), which gathered 400 policy-makers, scientists, health educators, advocacy officers and health professionals involved in tobacco control, we sponsored a symposium, “The Treatment of Tobacco Dependence: From Policy to Action.” This event featured renowned experts discussing the importance of smoking cessation and the need to improve access to smoking cessation services and treatments, in order to achieve public health objectives. Providing Compassionate Access to Patients Ensuring that individuals have access to Pfizer’s medicines and vaccines is essential to fulfilling our mission of putting patients first. In some cases, a patient facing a serious illness has exhausted all available treatment options and seeks early access to an investigational therapy that hasn’t yet been approved by the relevant government regulatory agency. At Pfizer, we call this compassionate access and have developed a first-in-industry portal, PfizerCAReS (Compassionate Access Request System), to help health care providers make these sometimes urgent requests on behalf of patients and their families. In 2017, Pfizer fulfilled more than 4,000 such requests in 57 countries, for more than 23 investigational therapies. “HOPE. Something that we were looking for two years ago. Something that we feared we were about to lose completely. Hope is what you gave to us the day you agreed to give Gavin compassionate use of an investigational drug. My child was dying. He was six. There was so much that he had yet to experience and his brain tumor threatened to steal every future possibility. You created possibilities when you decided to take a risk.” Nicole Pierson Mother of Gavin, a patient supported through the Compassionate Access program Read more about how Pfizer provides access to medicines. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 72 Valuing Vaccinations Across Generations It is critical that individuals across all generations receive vaccinations appropriate for each stage of life. In 2017, Pfizer expanded the partnership with Generations United, which works to elevate global awareness of vaccinations across all generations, to reach patients in Japan. We launched a unique campaign that uses Manga, a Japan-based genre of comic books, to educate people about the value and importance of getting vaccinated. Lowering the “Boom” on Pneumococcal Pneumonia Adults 65 years of age and older are 13 times more likely than adults 50 years of age and under to be hospitalized with pneumococcal pneumonia, which is a potentially serious bacterial lung infection that, in severe cases, can be life-threatening. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends vaccination against pneumococcal pneumonia for adults 65 and older; however, many people do not get vaccinated. Pfizer launched All About Your Boom™, a public awareness campaign to empower Baby Boomers – who represent a significant portion of the more than 46.2 million adults 65 years older in the U.S. today who may be at increased risk for pneumococcal pneumonia – to get a “new attitude” about the risks of pneumococcal pneumonia and the importance of staying up-to-date on their vaccinations. The campaign features tools and resources for Baby Boomers to learn more about vaccination and how to talk to their doctor about their options. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 73 Encouraging Baby Boomers to Talk to Their Health Care Providers About Getting Vaccinated All About Your Boom™ It’s all about Baby Boomers and doing the things they love. But pneumococcal pneumonia can detour Boomers. Help protect your health and enjoy this time in life. It’s all about you and it’s All About Your Boom. View infographic Read more about All About Your Boom. Transforming How We Tackle Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) As part of Pfizer’s commitment to advance the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are working to address Goal 3, ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being at all ages. One of the targets under the goal is to reduce by one-third premature mortality due to NCDs by 2030. Read more about how Pfizer is driving progress against the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic public health solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 74 Pfizer is collaborating to address leading public health challenges, including smoking, cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes through multi-sector partnerships. HelpAge International and Pfizer have worked together since 2012 to prevent and reduce the impact of NCDs across the life course in lowand middleincome countries. Together, we are working to bridge gaps in data on the health and functioning of older people so that public policies and programmatic initiatives that address NCDs can be data-driven. After analyzing the data from over 3,000 older people in nine countries in Africa, Asia and South America, HelpAge launched a global report and online data dashboard. The dashboard enables anyone to utilize the data in real time to drive action at the local, national and global levels targeting interventions and building collaborations with communities to reduce the impact of NCDs. Additionally, we continued partnering with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world’s largest humanitarian network, to support community-based health by continuing dissemination of IFRC’s 4HealthyHabits tools for NCD prevention, deploying and testing evidence-based tools for healthy aging with IFRC grassroots volunteers, and by advocating jointly for a life-course approach to healthy aging and NCD prevention. This year, we rolled out the toolkit and resources with more than 20 National Societies from Europe, Southeast Asia and the Pacific and Latin America regions, with materials already translated into eight languages from those regions and feedback collected from users on the ground. For more information, visit IFRC’s Community Health page. Creating Healthy Communities In 2017, we initiated Bending the Curve, an effort in partnership with the Chinese government aimed at significantly reducing cardiovascular disease incidence. These efforts include working with policy-makers to help ensure lipid management is an integral part of disease management programs, working with health care providers to standardize treatments in various cardiovascular treatment centers, and developing patient education programs to improve adherence and public awareness about cardiovascular disease. In April, we launched Healthy Communities, a collaboration with the international non-profit organization, Population Services International. This $1 million collaboration is designed to improve the diagnosis and treatment of hypertension, a condition that impacts one-quarter of all adults in Myanmar and Vietnam and can often lead to stroke, as a leading cause of mortality. The Healthy Communities program seeks to develop sustainable and scalable models of hypertension management to underserved communities, and will train up to 400 health care workers in 360 private sector health facilities and targets screening for up to 500,000 people in these countries. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 75 The program reflects Pfizer’s commitment to Access Accelerated, a global partnership designed to address the full spectrum of access barriers to medicines for NCDs in low-income and lower to middle-income countries. Involving more than 20 biopharmaceutical companies and associations, Access Accelerated also includes partners such as the World Bank and the Union for International Cancer Control, all working toward the UN Sustainable Development Goal target to reduce premature deaths from NCDs by one-third by 2030. Listening to Our Patient Community The Pfizer Patient Centricity Consultation Board held its inaugural Global Patient Advocacy Meeting at our headquarters in New York, convening 15 global advocacy partner leaders together with Pfizer teams and leadership. The two days of presentations and unprecedented discussion served as a workshop to share how Pfizer is working to improve its patient centricity and to listen to advocates’ input and recommendations for how we can enhance our work. The meeting helped to shape thoughtful, energized approaches aimed at patient-centric, can-do collaboration, adaptability and “why not” attitudes. Supporting Pfizer’s Center of Excellence for Diverse and Underserved Patient Populations Center of Excellence on Active and Healthy Ageing Pfizer’s Healthy Ageing Center of Excellence takes a unique approach to advancing our knowledge in the field of aging by fostering the inclusion of patient needs on aging issues within our research agenda and product development life cycle, and establishes collaborations with industry leaders. Colleagues at Pfizer join the Center of Excellence on a voluntary basis and come from a variety of functions from diverse geographies. These colleagues enable the Center to serve as a knowledge hub to share best practices and insights on healthy aging. The Center developed recommendations for including older participants in clinical trials, and conducted analyses providing insights on variations in rates of cancer screening, treatment and adherence to therapy for different age groups. Pediatric Center of Excellence We believe that all patients, no matter how young, should have a voice in the research, development and delivery of medicines and vaccines. Through our Pediatric Center of Excellence, we are committed to improving the health and well-being of children and to driving innovation in pediatric medicine. The Pediatric Center of Excellence developed Pfizer’s Pediatric Research Education Series, a program that provides training to colleagues regarding this vulnerable patient population, to help ensure greater understanding and compliance with regulatory commitments, and also established the Pfizer Pediatric External Expert Panel, a standing advisory board composed of external pediatric experts, to advise our development teams on pediatric issues. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 76 How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic public health solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. Goal 4: Quality Education Goal 5: Gender Equality We seek to empower and mobilize women around the world through partnerships aimed at ensuring access to quality healthcare, including newborn immunizations and family planning services. Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Through public-private partnerships like the International Trachoma Initiative, as well as efforts to limit our water consumption, we aim to advance public health by improving water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals By fueling innovative partnerships to advance public health, including collaborations with NGOs, governments, foundations, social entrepreneurs and colleagues, we are seeking to catalyze creative approaches to accelerate progress and improve care. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Community Health 77 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Access to Medicines The science of providing access to patients who need life-saving treatments is often complicated and requires collaboration and partnership. At Pfizer, we leverage our size and scale to create a strong infrastructure for supporting global public health efforts. We take a holistic look at the world’s most pressing challenges and make strategic decisions about where Pfizer is best positioned to not only impact patients today, but also in the future. We discover, develop and bring to market life-saving medicines and vaccines that help improve people’s lives while helping individuals to get and maintain uninterrupted access to our products. For nearly 170 years, Pfizer has been making important health contributions globally and at the community level. The impact of this work is both significant and far-reaching, touching the lives of patients across geographies and health care needs. Through our Corporate Responsibility programs alone, we reach millions of patients every year. TRANSFORMATIVE PARTNERSHIPS 1:35 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 78 Responding with Medicine, Science and Support in a Time of Need In 2017, we witnessed several devastating natural disasters across the world. In the aftermath of these events, Pfizer activated a comprehensive and coordinated plan at a company-wide level to provide disaster relief to those affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, as well as the October earthquake in Mexico. The Pfizer Foundation1 has provided significant cash grants to key organizations leading relief efforts on the ground in the impacted areas, including the American Red Cross, International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, One America Appeal (Presidents Fund), World Vision and Americares. The organizations use the resources based on their assessment of the needs of the populations affected, and the donations are not tied to any isolated event or geographic region. The Pfizer Foundation also has extended its one-to-one match for monetary donations made by global Pfizer colleagues to organizations supporting the relief efforts. Our colleagues lead numerous volunteer efforts in our offices, including packing up thousands of hygiene kits for International Medical Corps on the ground in the Caribbean and Puerto Rico. We also donated and shipped tens of thousands of doses of our essential health and consumer health care products to affected areas through Direct Relief and Americares. In addition, we implemented disaster relief protocols for our patient assistance programs, allowing existing patients who get their medicines through a Pfizer patient assistance program to request early refills or new shipping addresses, and temporarily waiving financial documentation requirements for eligible new patients who may have lost their paperwork in these crises or their aftermath. When our operations in Puerto Rico were impacted by Hurricane Maria, to ensure colleague safety and minimize business interruption, well-trained crisis management teams were immediately activated to first support colleagues and then work to support safely restarting operations. We provided colleagues who work at our Puerto Rico manufacturing and commercial sites with personal care kits, generators and other items to help them through the devastating situation. Our employees also gave back by distributing potable water from our sites to members of the community. WATCH SALLY SUSMAN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE AFFAIRS, PFIZER DISCUSS 2:14 HOW WE ADDRESS SOME OF THE MOST CRITICAL HEALTH CHALLENGES 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 79 Innovating How We Help Patients Receive Assistance Pfizer understands and appreciates patients’ concerns about the cost of their prescription medicines – whether they lack insurance, or have coverage but face high co-pays and deductibles. That’s why, for more than 30 years, we have empowered eligible patients in the U.S. with information and assistance in securing access to our medicines prescribed by their doctors. Through Pfizer RxPathways®, we connect patients to Pfizer and industry programs offering insurance support, co-pay assistance, medicines for free or at a savings and more. In 2017 alone, we helped more than 250,000 patients receive 1.8 million Pfizer prescriptions for free or at a savings² ²Data on file. Pfizer Inc., New York, NY. Our Operational Support We continue to enhance and evolve our operations to keep Pfizer medicines accessible to all patients, and are investing in operations and infrastructure to strengthen our patient assistance programs. In 2017, Pfizer: Employed Received 180+ 800,000+ call center representatives calls from patients and caregivers Processed Received 200,000+ 800,000+ enrollment forms for our visits to our website patient assistance program 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 80 To learn more about Pfizer RxPathways® and its offerings, patients can visit the website at www.PfizerRxPathways.com or call the toll-free number 844-989-PATH (7284). When patients contact our Pfizer RxPathways call center, trained Pfizer Medicine Access Counselors work one-on-one with patients – in English, Spanish or 240 other languages through our language line translation service – to understand their situation and determine the best way for Pfizer to help. We also refer patients to industry-wide initiatives, such as the Partnership for Prescription Assistance, if we learn they have been prescribed medicines that are not made by Pfizer. Watch how Pfizer RxPathways provides real support for real people: TERRY, ASSISTED BY PFIZER RXPATHWAYS 1:52 BEATRICE, ASSISTED BY PFIZER RXPATHWAYS 1:38 Leveraging Digital Micro-Targeting Technology Our evolving health care environment can be complex and confusing, and we want to let patients know that help may be available to them. To do so, we launched our first ever direct-to-consumer digital ad to highlight the help that Pfizer RxPathways can provide. Thanks to digital advancements and micro-targeting capabilities, we were able to target the ad to regions with the most need and were, therefore, better able to directly reach patients and caregivers who might be eligible for assistance and provide them with a path to receive the medicines they need. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 81 PFIZER RXPATHWAYS 0:37 Improving Access to Cancer Care in Sub-Saharan Africa To expand access to essential cancer treatments in sub-Saharan Africa, we partnered with the American Cancer Society and the Clinton Health Access Initiative on a groundbreaking market access agreement. Through this agreement, we broadened access to 11 essential cancer treatments in Ethiopia, Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania. An estimated 44 percent of all cancer cases that occur in sub-Saharan Africa each year occur in these six countries.3 Transforming Access to Contraception Broadening access to our medicines is a key priority, and we continue to develop new and creative commercial strategies that can work more effectively in underserved communities. The unmet need for contraception remains high. An estimated 225 million women in developing countries would like to delay or prevent pregnancy but are not using any method of contraception. That is why we have robust efforts underway, through a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation and a consortium of organizations from both the private and public sectors, to help broaden access to Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate) for women living in some of the world’s poorest countries. Sayana Press is our all-in-one injectable contraceptive, and its active ingredient (subcutaneous depo medroxyprogesterone acetate) was added to the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Model List of Essential Medicines in 2017. The Model List outlines treatments WHO believes should be available to all individuals worldwide, underscoring the importance of getting this treatment to women who need it. A multi-year extension of our collaboration was announced in May, and as a result Sayana Press is now available to qualified purchasers at a guaranteed price of $0.85 per dose, a reduction from the previous price of $1.00 per dose. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 82 By working together to expand the range of contraceptive options available, more women in more countries have had access to Sayana Press every year. By the end of 2017, more than 16 million units of Sayana Press were shipped to 23 countries in the developing world, potentially reaching more than four million women – up from an estimated 1.5 million women at the end of 2016. Pfizer is continuing to make investments in its manufacturing facilities to meet the expected increase in market demand. Because of its unique contraceptive delivery technology – enabling the product to be compact, discreet and easily transportable – Sayana Press can be provided in low-resource, non-clinic settings, potentially transforming the way in which women can access and receive their preferred method of contraception. Helping to Prevent Pneumococcal Disease Through Vaccination Through our partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, we provide Prevenar 13® (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine Diphtheria CRM197 Protein) to infants and children through Gavi’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC). Through the AMC, Pfizer has committed to supply up to 740 million doses of this critical pneumococcal vaccine at our lowest global price through 2025. In fact, one out of every two doses we make of this vaccine goes to the world’s poorest countries through Gavi. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 83 Harnessing the Innovative Power of Social Entrepreneurship A robust private sector is critical to generating sustainable and permanent solutions. Providing grants to social entrepreneurs and organizations supports ideas that, when taken to the next level, can help develop a market to provide health care options for those in need of affordable, quality care. The Pfizer Foundation’s Health Delivery and Social Innovation portfolio aims to catalyze and scale high-impact innovations that have the potential to improve health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries in Asia, Latin America and Africa. These social entrepreneurs are thinking big by starting small, implementing local innovations that can lead to widespread changes in the future. Through the Global Health Innovations Grants (GHIG) program, organizations are taking a unique approach to addressing gaps in care. ayzh, for example, is a social enterprise in India that provides low-cost maternal health products. The organization’s core offering is a $3 clean birthing kit that provides mothers with the essential materials recommended by WHO for a safe and hygienic birth. With the Pfizer Foundation’s help, ayzh has grown rapidly, reaching more than 1.5 million mothers and children with sustainable, low-cost interventions to help reduce maternal mortality and improve women and children’s health. Pfizer Foundation funding is also helping ayzh expand their manufacturing and distribution presence in Southern India. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 84 Global Health Innovations Grants (GHIG) Program Given the breadth of the GHIG program, which was started in 2016, we’re proud to share the quantifiable impact these entrepreneurs have had in local communities: Served nearly Trained 141,000 600 new patients new health care workers to provide evidence-based care Established Provided 70 12,000 new points-of-care, reaching participants with patient 175+ screenings at primarily rural communities 700+ community-based events Utilized 400 devices including mobile phones, tablets and portable diagnostic and monitoring devices, to screen patients, collect data and conduct point-of-care diagnostics and remote consultations Creating Integrated Immunization and Family Planning Programs Around the world, organizations and entrepreneurs are implementing creative and disruptive approaches to solve global health challenges. But these solutions require support, including funding, to expand their reach. That’s why the Pfizer Foundation has focused its global health strategy on providing funding and technical assistance to accelerate these new, locally driven approaches. Through our Women and Children’s Health portfolio, the Pfizer Foundation is supporting innovative, data-driven projects to help improve access to immunization and family planning services. The portfolio includes: • mHeath platforms to improve immunization coverage for children in difficult-to-reach populations in Indonesia, Uganda and Zambia. This includes providing health workers with mobile technology to register children and help track vaccination schedules in real time 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 85 • High impact programs in Malawi, Ethiopia, Uganda, Benin and Kenya that integrate immunization delivery and family planning services in an effort to improve access to information and care for women and children in the developing world In Malawi, for example, the Pfizer Foundation partnered with Save the Children to expand a pilot program that improves access to critical health care for women and children by combining family planning and immunization services. For women living in Malawi, where most people make the equivalent of $1 per day, quality health care is critical to fostering an equal and fair society. However, access to health services is not easy to come by in many rural areas, and women often have few resources to spend on health care and minimal time to make clinic visits. Through the Save the Children partnership, women who bring their children to health care facilities for immunizations are also offered family planning counseling at the same site, cutting down on the number of clinical visits and ensuring mothers receive care for themselves. Participants in the program report better health outcomes for newborns, higher rates of completion for first-year immunization schedules, improved family planning outcomes and increased confidence and ability for mothers to advocate for their families’ health. Addressing the Global Opioid Epidemic The Pfizer Naloxone Access Program reflects Pfizer’s longstanding commitment to improve health outcomes by expanding access to medicines and ensuring patient safety through educational activities associated with appropriate use of prescription medicines. In 2017, we committed to donate up to 250,000 doses per year of Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection to Direct Relief – a humanitarian aid organization that provides support in underserved communities and in emergency settings – over the course of the next four years (one million total doses). Direct Relief distributes the product, which treats opioid overdose, to its nationwide network of more than 4,000 nonprofit sites. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 86 Working to Eliminate the World’s Leading Infectious Cause of Blindness Our experience has shown us that collaboration is essential to solving complex global public health challenges. An example of this approach is our work with the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), part of a global network of more than 100 diverse partners working together to eliminate trachoma, the world’s leading infectious cause of blindness. Trachoma primarily affects remote communities with severely limited access to health care, clean water or sanitation, and nearly 182 million people are living in trachoma-endemic areas in 42 countries. ITI is an independent, nonprofit organization that was co-established in 1998 by Pfizer and the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation. ITI is now housed at The Task Force for Global Health, an independent nonprofit organization where ITI manages our donation of Zithromax® (azithromycin). ITI collaborates with governmental and non-governmental agencies at local, national and international levels to implement the WHO-recommended SAFE strategy (Surgery to treat the blinding stage of the disease, known as trichiasis, Antibiotics to clear infection, Facial cleanliness, Environmental improvement including better access to water and sanitation to help reduce transmission for trachoma control). Since the partnership was formed, this initiative has treated more than 100 million people in 36 countries. Pfizer, through ITI, has shipped more than 705 million doses of the antibiotic Zithromax for the treatment of trachoma since 1998. In 2017, WHO validated that Mexico, Cambodia and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic successfully eliminated trachoma as a public health problem. Learn more about the journey of our antibiotic used to help treat and prevent trachoma, and the global network of people that makes it all possible. TRACHOMA TIMELINE 5:11 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 87 Highlighting Neglected Tropical Disease (NTD) Efforts at Pfizer Headquarters In April, we unveiled an outdoor display at Pfizer’s headquarters in New York to spotlight our collaborative efforts with the global health community to address NTDs. The display spanned 14 large panels surrounding the ground floor of our building. How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 4: Quality Education Goal 5: Gender Equality We seek to empower and mobilize women around the world through partnerships aimed at ensuring access to quality healthcare, including newborn immunizations and family planning services. Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth References: 1. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2. Data on file. Pfizer Inc., New York. NY. 3. International Agency for Research on Cancer. GLOBOCAN 2012: Estimated Cancer Incidence, Mortality and Prevalence Worldwide in 2012 [Internet]. 2014 [cited 2014 May 12]. Available from: http://globocan.iarc.fr/Default.aspx 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Access to Medicines 88 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Board of Directors Dennis A. Ausiello M.D Age: 72 Director, Center for Assessment Technology and Continuous Health (CATCH). Physician-in-Chief, Emeritus at Massachusetts General Hospital and Chief of Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital from 1996 until 2013. Jackson Distinguished Professor of Clinical Medicine at Harvard Medical School. President of the Association of American Physicians in 2006. Member, National Academy of Medicine and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Director of Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Seres Therapeutics, Inc. and TARIS BioMedical LLC. Pfizer Director since 2006. Member of our Science and Technology Committee and Lead Independent Director. Ronald E. Blaylock Age: 58 Founder, Managing Partner of GenNx360 Capital Partners, a private equity firm focused on investing in industrial and business services companies in the U.S. middle market, since 2006. Prior to launching GenNx360 Capital Partners, Mr. Blaylock founded and managed Blaylock & Company, an investment banking firm. He has also held senior management positions at UBS, PaineWebber Group, and Citicorp. Director of CarMax, Inc., Urban One, Inc., formerly Radio One, Inc. and W.R. Berkley, Inc., an insurance holding company. Director of Syncreon U.S., a for-profit private company. Member of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Hall. Member of the Board of Overseers of New York University Stern School of Business. Member of the Board of Trustees of Prep for Prep, a not-for-profit organization. Pfizer Director since 2017. Member of our Corporate Governance and Science and Technology Committees. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 89 Albert Bourla, DVM, Ph.D. Age: 56 Albert Bourla is the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Pfizer, one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies. As COO, Albert oversees the company’s commercial, strategy, manufacturing and global product development functions. He is a member of the Company’s Executive Leadership Team. Prior to being named COO, Albert was the Group President of Pfizer Innovative Health, responsible for the Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine, Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines business groups. He also created the Patient and Health Impact group, which was dedicated to developing solutions for increasing patient access, demonstrating the value of our innovations, and ensuring broader business model innovation. Albert has almost 25 years of experience with Pfizer and has held a number of senior global positions across a range of markets and disciplines. Previously, Albert was the Group President of Pfizer’s Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business, where he was instrumental in building a strong and competitive position in Oncology and expanded the company’s leadership in Vaccines. Before that, he was President and General Manager of Pfizer’s Established Products business, where he led the development and implementation of strategies and tactics related to Pfizer’s off-patent portfolio (including legacy brands and generics). Albert joined Pfizer’s Animal Health Division in 1993 as Technical Director of Greece. He held positions of increasing responsibility across Europe before moving to Pfizer Global Headquarters in New York in 2001 to assume the role of U.S. Group Marketing Director for Animal Health. In 2004, he became Vice President of Business Development and New Products Marketing; supervising Pfizer Animal Health global licensing and acquisition activities, as well as the unit’s R&D portfolio. In 2006, he was appointed Area President of Europe, Africa and Middle East and in 2009, he assumed additional responsibilities for Asia and Pacific. Albert is a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine and holds a Ph.D. in the Biotechnology of Reproduction from the Veterinary School of Aristotle University. Albert is a member of the following boards: the Pfizer Foundation, which promotes access to quality health care and the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (Bio), the world’s largest biotechnology trade association, where he serves on the Executive Committee. Pfizer Director since 2018. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 90 W. Don Cornwell Age: 70 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Granite Broadcasting Corporation from 1988 until his retirement in August 2009, and served as Vice Chairman of the Board until December 2009. Director of American International Group, Inc. and Avon Products, Inc. Director of the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation. Director of the Wallace Foundation from 2002 until 2012 and previously served as a Director of CVS Caremark (including two years as Chair of its Compensation Committee) for over 10 years. Trustee of Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City. Pfizer Director since 1997. Member of our Audit, Compensation, Regulatory and Compliance, and Science and Technology Committees. Joseph J. Echevarria Age: 61 Chief Executive Officer of Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), a global provider of professional services, from 2011 until his retirement in 2014. During his 36-year tenure with Deloitte, served in various leadership roles, including Deputy Managing Partner, Southeast Region Audit Managing Partner, and U.S. Managing Partner and Chief Operating Officer. Director of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Unum Group, a provider of financial protection benefits, and Xerox Corporation. Member of the President’s Export Council and former Member of the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. Chair Emeritus of My Brother’s Keeper Alliance. Member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Miami. Pfizer Director since 2015. Member of our Audit, Corporate Governance, and Science and Technology Committees. Frances D. Fergusson, Ph.D. Age: 73 President Emeritus of Vassar College since 2006 and President from 1986 to 2006. Served on the Mayo Clinic Board for 14 years, the last four years as its Chairman, and as President of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University from 2007 through 2008. Director of Wyeth from 2005 until 2009. Director of Mattel, Inc. A Trustee of The J. Paul Getty Trust (executive committee), Director of the Second Stage Theatre, Vice Chair of the Board of The John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art Foundation, Inc. Pfizer Director since 2009. Chair of our Regulatory and Compliance Committee and member of our Corporate Governance and Science and Technology Committees. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 91 Helen H. Hobbs, M.D. Age: 65 Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute since 2002. Professor of Internal Medicine and Molecular Genetics, and Director of the McDermott Center for Human Growth and Development at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians. Elected to the National Academy of Medicine in 2004, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2006, and the National Academy of Sciences in 2007. Received both the Clinical Research Prize (2005) and Distinguished Scientist Award (2007) from the American Heart Association. In 2012, received the inaugural International Society of Atherosclerosis Prize and, in 2015 received both the Pearl Meister Greengard Award and the Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences. In 2016, received the Passano Award and the Gill Award. Pfizer Director since 2011. Chair of our Science and Technology Committee and member of our Corporate Governance and Regulatory and Compliance Committees. James M. Kilts Age: 70 Founding Partner, Centerview Capital, a private equity firm, since 2006. Vice Chairman, The Procter & Gamble Company (Procter & Gamble), from 2005 to 2006. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, The Gillette Company (Gillette), from 2001 to 2005 and President, Gillette, from 2003 to 2005. President and Chief Executive Officer, Nabisco Group Holdings Corporation (Nabisco), from 1998 until its acquisition in 2000. Director of MetLife, Inc., The Simply Good Foods Company and Unifi, Inc. (a textile manufacturing company). Executive Chairman of the Board of Conyers Park Acquisition Corporation from 2016 until its merger with The Simply Good Foods Company in 2017. Non-Executive Director of the Board of Nielsen Holdings PLC (from 2016 until 2017), Chairman of the Board of Nielsen Holdings (from 2011 until 2013) and Chairman of the Nielsen Company B.V. (from 2009 to 2014). Chairman of Big Heart Pet Brands until 2015 and Director of Meadwestvaco Corporation until 2014. Life Trustee of Knox College and Trustee of the University of Chicago, a member of the Board of Overseers of Weill Cornell Medicine, and Founder and Co-Chair, Steering Committee, of the Kilts Center for Marketing at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Pfizer Director since 2007. Member of our Compensation and Science and Technology Committees. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 92 Dan R. Littman, M.D., Ph.D. Age: 65 Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Molecular Immunology at the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine of NYU Langone Medical Center since 1995 and an Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute since 1987. Professor of Microbiology and Immunology at the University of California, San Francisco from 1985 to 1995. Member of the National Academy of the Sciences and the Institute of Medicine. Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Academy of Microbiology. Founding Scientific Advisory Board Member of Vedanta Biosciences. Member of Scientific Advisory Boards at ChemoCentryx, Inc., the Cancer Research Institute and the Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard. Founder and a scientific advisor to Orca Pharmaceuticals. Awarded the New York City Mayor’s Award for Excellence in Science and Technology (2004), the Ross Prize in Molecular Medicine (2013) and the Vilcek Prize in Biomedical Science (2016). Pfizer Director since 2018. Member of our Corporate Governance and Science and Technology Committees. Shantanu Narayen Age: 54 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director (Chairman since 2017) of Adobe Systems Incorporated, a producer of creative and digital marketing software. Prior to his appointment as CEO in December 2007, held various leadership roles at Adobe, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Products, and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Product Development. Director of Dell Inc. from 2009 until October 2013 and Director of Metavante Technologies Inc. from 2007 until 2009. President of the Board of Adobe Foundation, which funds philanthropic initiatives around the world. Vice Chairman of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum from January 2018 to present. Pfizer Director since 2013. Member of our Compensation, Regulatory and Compliance, and Science and Technology Committees. Suzanne Nora Johnson Age: 60 Retired Vice Chairman, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., since 2007. During her 21-year tenure with Goldman Sachs, served in various leadership roles, including Chair of the Global Markets Institute, Head of Global Research, and Head of Global Health Care. Director of American International Group, Inc., Intuit Inc. and Visa Inc. Vice Chair, Board of Trustees of The Brookings Institution, Co-Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Institution of Washington; Co-Chair of the Board of Trustees of the University of Southern California; and Member of the Global Agenda Council on the Future of Financial and Monetary Systems for the World Economic Forum. Pfizer Director since 2007. Chair of our Audit Committee and member of our Regulatory and Compliance, and Science and Technology Committees. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 93 Ian C. Read Age: 64 Ian C. Read leads Pfizer, one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, which brings therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. These include medicines, vaccines and many of the world’s best-known consumer health care products. Prior to being named Chairman of the Board in 2011 and Chief Executive Officer in December 2010, he served as Senior Vice President and Group President of the Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses, which he led from 2006 through December 2010. In that role, he oversaw five global business units— Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets. Mr. Read began his career with Pfizer in 1978 as an operational auditor. He worked in Latin America through 1995, holding positions including Chief Financial Officer, Pfizer Mexico, and Country Manager, Pfizer Brazil. In 1996, he was appointed President of Pfizer’s International Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Latin America and Canada. He became Executive Vice President, Europe, in 2000, was named a Corporate Vice President in 2001, and assumed responsibility for Canada, in addition to Europe, in 2002. Mr. Read later became accountable for operations in both the Africa/Middle East region and Latin America as well. Ian is a Director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation. He also serves on the Boards of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and the Partnership of New York City. Ian received his B.Sc. in chemical engineering from London University Imperial College in 1974 and earned his Chartered Accountants certification from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. Pfizer Director since 2010. Stephen W. Sanger Age: 71 Chairman of General Mills, Inc., a packaged food producer and distributor, from 1995 until his retirement in 2008 and its Chief Executive Officer from 1995 to 2007. Former Chairman of the Grocery Manufacturers of America. Recipient of the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public Service in 2009. Chaired the Fiscal Policy Committee of the Business Roundtable and served as a director of Catalyst. Director of Wells Fargo & Company (Chairman since October 2016). Director of Target Corporation from 1996 until 2013. Pfizer Director since 2009. Chair of our Corporate Governance Committee and member of our Audit and Science and Technology Committees. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 94 James C. Smith Age: 58 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of Thomson Reuters Corporation, a provider of intelligent information for businesses and professionals, since January 2012 and its Chief Operating Officer from September 2011 to December 2011. Chief Executive Officer, Thomson Reuters Professional Division, from 2008 to 2011. Prior to the acquisition of Reuters Group PLC by The Thomson Corporation (Thomson) in 2008, served as Chief Operating Officer of Thomson and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Thomson Learning’s Academic and Reference Group. Member of the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the International Advisory Boards of British American Business and the Atlantic Council. Pfizer Director since 2014. Chair of our Compensation Committee and member of our Audit and Science and Technology Committees. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Board of Directors 95 OUR BUSINESS, OUR PURPOSE Executive Leadership Team Ian C. Read Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Ian C. Read leads Pfizer, one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, which brings therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. These include medicines, vaccines and many of the world’s best-known consumer health care products. Prior to being named Chairman of the Board in 2011, and Chief Executive Officer in December 2010, he was President and Chief Executive Officer from December 2010 until December 2011. Previously he served as Senior Vice President and Group President of the Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses, which he led from 2006 through December 2010. In that role, he oversaw five global business units – Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets. Read began his career with Pfizer in 1978 as an operational auditor. He worked in Latin America through 1995, holding positions including Chief Financial Officer, Pfizer Mexico, and Country Manager, Pfizer Brazil. In 1996, he was appointed President of Pfizer’s International Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Latin America and Canada. He became Executive Vice President, Europe, in 2000, was named a Corporate Vice President in 2001, and assumed responsibility for Canada, in addition to Europe, in 2002. Read later became accountable for operations in both the Africa/Middle East region and Latin America as well. Read is a Director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation. He also serves on the Boards of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and the Partnership of New York City. Read received his B.Sc. in chemical engineering from London University Imperial College in 1974 and earned his Chartered Accountants certification from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 96 Albert Bourla, DVM, Ph.D. Chief Operating Officer Albert Bourla is the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Pfizer, one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies. As COO, Albert oversees the company’s commercial, strategy, manufacturing and global product development functions. He is a member of the Company’s Executive Leadership Team. Prior to being named COO, Albert was the Group President of Pfizer Innovative Health, responsible for the Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine, Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines business groups. He also created the Patient and Health Impact group, which was dedicated to developing solutions for increasing patient access, demonstrating the value of our innovations, and ensuring broader business model innovation. Bourla has almost 25 years of experience with Pfizer and has held a number of senior global positions across a range of markets and disciplines. Previously, Bourla was the Group President of Pfizer’s Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Business, where he was instrumental in building a strong and competitive position in Oncology and expanded the company’s leadership in Vaccines. Before that, he was President and General Manager of Pfizer’s Established Products Business, where he led the development and implementation of strategies and tactics related to Pfizer’s off-patent portfolio, including legacy brands and generics. Bourla joined Pfizer’s Animal Health Division in 1993 as Technical Director of Greece. He held positions of increasing responsibility across Europe before moving to Pfizer Global Headquarters in New York in 2001 to assume the role of U.S. Group Marketing Director for Animal Health. In 2004, he became Vice President of Business Development and New Products Marketing; supervising Pfizer Animal Health global licensing and acquisition activities, as well as the unit’s R&D portfolio. In 2006, he was appointed Area President of Europe, Africa and Middle East and in 2009, he assumed additional responsibilities for Asia and Pacific. Bourla is a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine and holds a Ph.D. in the Biotechnology of Reproduction from the Veterinary School of Aristotle University. He is a member of the following boards: the Pfizer Foundation, which promotes access to quality health care and the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (Bio), the world’s largest biotechnology trade association, where he serves on the Executive Committee. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 97 Frank D’Amelio Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio is the Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Pfizer, responsible for finance, business development and business operations, including IT, procurement and real estate. D’Amelio led the acquisition and integration of Medivation, Inc., Anacor Pharmaceuticals Inc., Hospira Inc., King Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Wyeth, as well as the split-off of Pfizer’s animal health business, Zoetis, and the sale of its nutrition business to Nestlé and its Capsugel business to KKR. Before joining the company in September 2007, D’Amelio was Senior Executive Vice President of Integration and Chief Administrative Officer of Alcatel-Lucent, responsible for the integration of the Alcatel-Lucent merger as well as procurement, real estate, IT and supply chain. Prior to the merger of Alcatel and Lucent Technologies in 2006, D’Amelio was the Chief Operating Officer of Lucent Technologies. In 2001, he was appointed Executive Vice President and CFO of Lucent, where he helped lead the company through one of the most challenging periods in the telecom industry’s history and returned the company to profitability. When Lucent was spun off from AT&T in 1996, D’Amelio helped create the new company financially as the CFO of Lucent’s Network Systems Business and was a critical member of the team that met with investors around the world during Lucent’s initial public offering. In 1999, he was appointed the Group President of Lucent’s Switching Solutions Business Unit, where he led Lucent’s multibillion-dollar, global Switching, Access and Application Software businesses. Born and raised in New Jersey, D’Amelio earned his MBA in Finance from St. John’s University and his B.A. in Accounting from St. Peter’s College. He started his career in 1979 at Bell Labs, holding a variety of financial, accounting and general management positions, and moved within AT&T, holding a series of positions with increasing responsibility. In 2005, 2006, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2017, D’Amelio was ranked among America’s top CFOs by Institutional Investor magazine. In 2002, he was recognized by Treasury & Risk magazine as one of America’s Top CFOs. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Zoetis, Inc. and Humana, Inc. and is chair of the Humana Audit Committee; and the Independent College Fund of New Jersey. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 98 Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D. President, Worldwide Research & Development and Executive Vice President of Pfizer Mikael Dolsten is focused on advancing the company’s scientific leadership in small molecule medicines, biotherapeutics and vaccines. He is a member of the Pfizer Executive Leadership Team and the company’s Portfolio Strategy and Investment Committee, which governs major pipeline investments and strategic end-to-end R&D priorities. He leads the Worldwide Research and Development (WRD) organization at Pfizer, which is responsible for research at the company, including development of all compounds through proof of concept, and provides safety, regulatory and clinical operation support to the entire R&D pipeline. The WRD group contains all Pfizer research units, including Oncology, Internal Medicine, Inflammation & Immunology, Vaccines, Rare Disease, as well as the Centers for Therapeutic Innovation (CTI). Dolsten, also, has worldwide responsibility for Pfizer’s groups in safety, regulatory and external R&D innovation, in addition to science-based teams in pharmaceutical sciences, drug safety R&D, and large and small molecule discovery and development. Prior to joining Pfizer in 2009, Dolsten was President of Wyeth Research, where he led scientists across the U.S., Europe and Asia. Dolsten earned his Ph.D. in tumor immunology and M.D. from the University of Lund in Sweden, where he was appointed Adjunct Professor in Tumor Immunology. He is a fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine. Dolsten serves on the Science and Regulatory Executive Committee of The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and the PhRMA Foundation Board of Directors. He is a member of the Board of Karyopharm Pharmaceuticals and an industry member of the Government-UniversityIndustry Research Roundtable (GUIRR) Council. In addition, Dolsten was recently elected as Foreign Member of The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. Dolsten is a named inventor on several patents and has published approximately 150 articles in international journals, with particular contributions in areas such as molecular cell biology, immunology and oncology. Chuck Hill Executive Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources As Chief Human Resources Officer, Chuck Hill is responsible for all enterprise human resource strategies with a key focus on driving the company’s OWNIT! culture. Hill joined Pfizer’s human resources team in 1987, supporting the Pharmaceutical Sales Force. Since then, he has held a number of roles including HR director of Pfizer’s Global Manufacturing facility in Groton, Connecticut; Vice President HR, Corporate Finance; and Senior Vice President HR, Worldwide Biopharmaceuticals Businesses. Prior to joining Pfizer, Hill served for eight years in the United States Air Force as an instructor fighter pilot and flight commander. He is the executive sponsor of the Pfizer Colleague Council, Veterans in Pfizer, which works to maximize the unique role veterans and active military personnel play in driving workplace and marketplace outcomes. Hill holds a B.A. in Business from Rutgers University and an M.S. in Systems Management from the University of Southern California. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 99 Angela Hwang Group President, Pfizer Essential Health Angela Hwang is the Group President of Pfizer Essential Health. In this role, Ms. Hwang leads a global organization that operates in 160 countries, with a portfolio of more than 600 products that generates approximately $21 billion in revenue annually. Pfizer Essential Health is a leader in non-viral Anti-Infectives, Biosimilars, off-patent Sterile Injectables, and the Emerging Markets. Its Global Brands portfolio includes many of Pfizer’s most iconic brands, including Lipitor, Viagra, and Norvasc. Pfizer Essential Health’s growth is driven through its dedicated R&D organization, and a focus on the acquisition of new molecules developed outside of Pfizer. PEH’s portfolio of well-known branded medicines, innovative delivery mechanisms, and high-quality manufacturing make it a key partner in the global health space. In her prior role, Hwang was Global President of Pfizer Inflammation & Immunology, a multi-functional global, regional, and country-based organization focused on developing, launching, and driving revenue for products in rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology. Hwang joined Pfizer in 1997 and has held 10 different positions in the company spanning strategy, product development, marketing, sales, and general management. Her experience covers a wide array of therapeutic areas and medicines in all stages of their lifecycle, including CV/Metabolic, CNS/Pain, Urology/Women’s Health, Vaccines, and Inflammation and Immunology, as well as geographical breadth in both developed and emerging markets. Hwangs’s influence and impact are known throughout Pfizer and the industry. In her role as Regional President for US Vaccines (2014 – 2015), she activated the market for adult pneumococcal vaccines, driving a record number of adults vaccinated within the first year of the full commercialization of Prevnar 13. In her role as Vice President and Head of Primary Care for Emerging Markets (2011-2013), she fueled a portfolio of launch and mature products to growth through market and access development and targeted customer strategies. As Vice President US Established Products (2009 – 2011), she pioneered Lipitor’s post-loss of exclusivity strategy, maximizing value for Pfizer’s most iconic brand through a plan that continued to generate patient loyalty and value to Pfizer for years. She has also been an active participant in industry groups such as BIO, where she co-chaired the Vaccines Policy Committee for two years. A native of South Africa, Hwang received her B.Sc. in Microbiology and Biochemistry from the University of Cape Town and her MBA from Cornell University. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 100 Rady Johnson Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Rady Johnson has overall responsibility for Pfizer’s corporate compliance programs and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. He has been with Pfizer since 1994 and has served in a number of leadership positions, including Associate General Counsel for the Specialty Care Business Unit and as head of the Global Product and Regulatory Law practice group. Prior to joining the company, Johnson was a member of Hogan & Hartson, LLP’s food and drug law practice group based in Washington D.C., and also worked as a certified public accountant (CPA) and senior auditor for Arthur Anderson & Co. Johnson was graduated from the University of Richmond and Georgetown University Law Center. Doug Lankler Executive Vice President and General Counsel Doug Lankler joined Pfizer in 1999 and currently serves as General Counsel. Prior to being named General Counsel, he was Pfizer’s Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, a role he assumed in 2006. Prior to joining the company, Lankler was with the United States Department of Justice as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York. Lankler was a recipient of the United States Attorney General’s Distinguished Service Award. Lankler graduated from the State University of New York at Albany and Cornell Law School. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 101 Freda C. Lewis-Hall, M.D., DFAPA Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer Freda Lewis-Hall serves as Pfizer’s Chief Medical Officer and leads Pfizer Medical, the division responsible for the safe, effective and appropriate use of Pfizer medicines and vaccines around the world. Besides providing science-grounded medical information to prescribers and patients, Pfizer Medical is also responsible for the company’s office of patient affairs, its centers of excellence on pediatric care, clinical trial diversity and healthy aging, its enterprise benefit-risk communications and its worldwide compassionate access program. Before joining Pfizer in 2009, Lewis-Hall held senior leadership positions in medical affairs and product development with Vertex, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pharmacia and Eli Lilly and Company. Prior to joining the biopharmaceutical industry, she served as Vice Chairperson and Associate Professor in the Department of Psychiatry at Howard University College of Medicine and was an advisor to the National Institute of Mental Health. Lewis-Hall graduated from Johns Hopkins University and earned her medical doctorate at Howard University College of Medicine. She launched her medical career as a practicing physician and then focused her academic research on the effects of health care disparities and the impact of mental illness on families and communities. Lewis-Hall is a Distinguished Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. She is a frequent speaker on issues such as improving patient safety and outcomes and reducing stigma and healthcare disparities. She appears regularly on health-related television programs in major global markets, including CBS-syndicated shows such as The Doctors and Dr. Phil. She also shares health and medical information through GetHealthyStayHealthy.com. Lewis-Hall was the inaugural Chair of NIH’s Cures Acceleration Network Review Board. Lewis-Hall currently serves on the boards of SpringWorks Therapeutics, Save the Children, Dell Medical School at the University of Texas at Austin, Harvard Medical School and the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute. She is a director of the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and a member of the Advisory Council for the NIH’s National Center for Advancing Translational Science. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 102 Kirsten Lund-Jurgensen, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and President, Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) Kirsten Lund-Jurgensen’s pharmaceutical industry career spans 30 years. As President of PGS, she is responsible for Pfizer’s internal and external manufacturing and supply network. She has held roles of increasing global responsibility throughout her career including site leadership, global strategic planning, contractor management, supply chain management and product portfolio leadership. Lund-Jurgensen joined the company in 1999 from SmithKline Beecham where she held various global operational and leadership roles in Australia, Germany and the United States. She has been a member of the PGS Leadership Team since 2000 and has represented PGS on several of Pfizer’s Business Leadership Teams. In addition to her daily responsibilities, Lund-Jurgensen is a Board Member of the Pfizer Foundation, and is the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) sponsor for Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability program and the Latino Colleague Resource Group. She also is a Member of the Executive Committee of the National Association of Manufacturers Board of Directors. Lund-Jurgensen is a pharmacist from Kiel University in Germany and holds a Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Biology from Freiburg University in Germany. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 103 Rod MacKenzie, Ph.D. Executive Vice President, Chief Development Officer Rod MacKenzie, Ph.D., is Executive Vice President, Chief Development Officer for Pfizer. In this role, MacKenzie is responsible for the development and advancement of Pfizer’s pipeline of medicines in several therapeutic areas, including inflammation and immunology, internal medicine, oncology and rare disease. He serves on the Portfolio Strategy and Investment Committee, which focuses on maximizing the return on R&D investment across the Pfizer portfolio, and is a member of Pfizer’s Executive Leadership Team. MacKenzie joined Pfizer in Sandwich, UK as a Research Scientist and conducted medicinal chemistry research in the cardiovascular, GI, Sexual Health, Urology and Allergy & Respiratory diseases. He is the co-inventor of darifenacin (Enablex™). MacKenzie has held numerous leadership positions at Pfizer, including Head of PharmaTherapeutics Research and Development where he oversaw the Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases, Pain & Sensory Disorders and Neuroscience Research Units and was responsible for all medicinal chemistry at Pfizer, as well as Small Molecule Pharmaceutical Sciences, Pharmacokinetics, Dynamics & Metabolism and Comparative Medicine. He also served as Site Director of the Groton, Connecticut laboratories, Pfizer’s largest global R&D facility. Prior to this role, MacKenzie held a series of research leadership positions, including Senior Vice President and Head of Worldwide Research, Head of Discovery Chemistry in Sandwich, U.K., Head of the Discovery Technology Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Head of Discovery Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Head of Drug Safety R&D. MacKenzie represents Pfizer on the Board of Directors for ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company established by GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer to deliver advances in treatment and care for people living with HIV. He also represents Pfizer on the Board of Directors for TransCelerate, a non-profit organization with a mission to collaborate across the biopharmaceutical research and development community to improve the health of people around the world by accelerating and enhancing the research and development of innovative new therapies. MacKenzie was graduated from the University of Glasgow with a 1st Class Honors degree in chemistry and completed his Ph.D. at Imperial College, London. He was awarded a NATO Postdoctoral Research Fellowship and spent two years at Columbia University, New York working in the area of molecular recognition with Professor W.C. Still. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 104 Laurie J. Olson Executive Vice President, Strategy, Portfolio and Commercial Operations Laurie Olson is Executive Vice President of Strategy & Commercial Operations at Pfizer. She is responsible for overseeing the shaping of Pfizer’s longer-term strategy, supporting the execution for Pfizer’s commercial objectives, and providing portfolio advisory functions to guide R&D investment decisions. Olson is a member of Pfizer’s Executive Leadership Team and also a member of the Portfolio Strategy Investment Committee, which oversees decisions regarding enterprise portfolio investment and advancement. Olson joined Pfizer in 1987 as an analyst in the company’s Marketing Research organization. She has since held both U.S. and global leadership roles in marketing, commercial development, strategy, analytics and operations. In her most recent role as Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management and Analytics, she served on an executive task force that successfully redesigned Pfizer’s R&D organization to strengthen its pipeline and improve efficiency. In 2011, Corporate Strategy was added to her responsibilities. In addition to her daily responsibilities, Olson is the executive sponsor of Pfizer’s global Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Colleague Council and serves on the company’s worldwide Diversity Leadership Council. Olson earned a B.Sc. degree in Economics from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an MBA in Marketing from Hofstra University. Sally Susman Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs Sally Susman is Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs for Pfizer. She chairs Pfizer’s Political Action Committee and is Vice Chair of the Pfizer Foundation. Susman directs Pfizer’s global communications and its public affairs activities, including high-level relations with the governments of all nations in which the Company has operations or markets products. She also heads the firm’s Corporate Responsibility group and plays a key role in shaping the Company’s policy initiatives. Before joining Pfizer in 2007, Susman held roles at Estee Lauder Companies and the American Express Company. Earlier in her career, she spent eight years in government service focused on international trade issues. Susman serves on the following boards: WPP plc, a world leader in advertising and marketing based in the U.K., and The International Rescue Committee. Susman holds a B.A. in Government from Connecticut College; she has also studied at the London School of Economics. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 105 John Young Group President, Pfizer Innovative Health John Young is the Group President of Pfizer Innovative Health at Pfizer Inc., one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies. He is a member of the Company’s Executive Leadership Team. Pfizer Innovative Health includes six business groups: Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine, Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines. Each business group is committed to improving health with our innovative products from prevention to treatment to wellness – at every stage of life in communities across the globe. The Emerging Markets group is focused on increasing access to Pfizer’s innovative portfolio of medicines to people across developing countries in Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Most recently, Young was the Group President for Pfizer Essential Health where he oversaw a broad portfolio of more than 600 products with a global reach in 160 countries. Young has more than 25 years’ experience with Pfizer and has held a number of senior global positions across the organization. A scientist by training, he began his Pfizer career in the U.K. as a trainee Sales Representative and held various positions in sales and marketing before taking the role of Australia Country Manager, and later U.K. Country Manager. Following these experiences, he assumed the role of Regional President, Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand for the Primary Care Business Unit. He was later appointed President and General Manager of the Primary Care Business, where he led both the commercial organization and clinical development of medicines in key disease areas including cardiovascular disease, diabetes and pain. Young is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Johnson Controls International. He is also a member of the Boards of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations (EFPIA) and the Ministerial Industry Strategy Group (MISG), since 2008. Young holds a B.Sc. in Biological Science from Glasgow University and an MBA from Strathclyde Graduate Business School. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Executive Leadership Team 106 OUR INNOVATION Biosimilars As one of the world’s leading innovative biopharmaceutical companies, Pfizer is at the forefront of developing, manufacturing and delivering high-quality biosimilars to patients, physicians, and payers. Biosimilars have the potential to expand patient access to treatment and to create a more sustainable health care system. This should be achieved without compromising quality and by making resources available for further investment and innovation, so that more patients may receive the best possible care. At Pfizer, we are making high-quality versions of existing biologic medicines that have lost exclusivity available to patients and physicians in a number of countries around the world across multiple life-threatening and chronic diseases in the fields of inflammation, immunology and oncology. Our work in biosimilars reflects both our commitment to scientific innovation and our sense of urgency around patient access, and is a prime example of how we are driving value in every aspect of our business to improve patient health. Pfizer has nearly 10 years of global experience developing biosimilars. Our current commercialized in-market portfolio includes Inflectra® (infliximab-dyyb in the U.S.) and Nivestim® (filgrastim) and Retacrit® (epoetin zeta), both approved in Europe. In December, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Ixifi™ (infliximab-qbtx), also a biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab). Read more about our Pipeline. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Biosimilars 107 Biosimilars vs. Generics: What’s the Difference? A biologic medicine is derived from living organisms and is manufactured through highly involved and stringently controlled biotechnology processes. As biologic medicines, biosimilars are inherently different from generic medicines due to their molecular size and structure, and the complexity and cost of their development. Development of biosimilars is more difficult than that of small molecule generics, and generally requires more extensive clinical testing. Biosimilars also have significantly higher research and development costs and risks, and are more complex to manufacture than small-molecule generics. While biosimilars have the potential to provide additional treatment options at lower cost, development of biosimilars requires significant investment. Development of a biosimilar may take five to nine years at a cost of more than $100 million, not including regulatory fees. A generic version of a small-molecule drug, on the other hand, costs $1 million to $2 million and takes approximately two years to develop. Building Upon a Heritage of Innovation With more than 30 years of expertise in biologics, Pfizer has a deep understanding of the science behind these molecules and is a global leader in developing, manufacturing and delivering novel biologics and biosimilars that contribute to the treatment of millions of patients. Building on our strengths in developing biologics, our biosimilars development pipeline is one of the largest such pipelines globally, with 12 total assets and seven assets in midto late-stage development noted in the chart below. Recent milestones include the acceptance for review of applications by the FDA and European Medicines Agency (EMA) for PF-05280014, our proposed biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab), and acceptance for review of our application by the FDA for PF-06881893, our proposed biosimilar to Neupogen® (filgrastim). 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Biosimilars 108 Compound Name Mechanism of Action Indication Phase Filgrastim, a potential Human Granulocyte Colony Neutropenia in patients Registration biosimilar to Neupogen® Stimulating Factor undergoing cancer (filgrastim) chemotherapy (Biosimilar) PF-05280014, a potential erbB2 TK Inhibitor Metastatic Breast Cancer Registration biosimilar to Herceptin® (Biosimilar) (trastuzumab) Retacrit®, a potential biosimilar Erythropoietin Stimulating Treatment of Anemia Registration to Epogen® and Procrit® Agent (ESA) (Biosimilar) (epoetin alfa) PF-05280586, a potential CD20 Antigen Antagonist Follicular Lymphoma Phase 3 biosimilar to Rituxan® / (Biosimilar) MabThera® (rituximab) PF-06410293, a potential Tumor Necrosis Factor Inhibitor Rheumatoid Arthritis Phase 3 biosimilar to Humira® (Biosimilar) (adalimumab) PF-06439535, a potential VEGF inhibitor Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Phase 3 biosimilar to Avastin® (Biosimilar) (bevacizumab) PF-06881894, a potential Human Granulocyte Colony Neutropenia in patients Phase 1 biosimilar to Neulasta® Stimulating Factor undergoing cancer (Pegfilgrastim) chemotherapy (Biosimilar) Our efforts to bring these important treatment options to market is driven by our belief that our science should always be focused on delivering high-quality medicines and doing what we can to help ensure that patients have uninterrupted access to the best possible care. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Biosimilars 109 OUR INNOVATION Anti-Infectives Infectious diseases continue to be one of the largest threats to global public health. At Pfizer, we are driven by our desire to protect health and address the medical needs of people suffering from infectious diseases. Starting with our pioneering work on penicillin in the 1940s, we have a long and proud heritage of addressing evolving infectious disease challenges. Infections can touch us all, at any age and in any country. We offer the industry’s largest and most diverse portfolio of anti-infectives, including more than 80 potentially life-saving medicines. We continue to invest in novel treatments for infectious diseases to address the greatest patient medical needs and, partnering with the infectious disease community, provide solutions that go beyond the medicine and offer innovative surveillance tools, shape the policy environment and support stewardship and education programs that help preserve the efficacy of the antimicrobials we already have available. GET SCIENCE Visit Get Science to learn more about antimicrobial resistance 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Anti-Infectives 110 “As we look to 2018, we remain dedicated to expanding our longstanding leadership and expertise in the area of fighting infectious disease and, importantly, to continuing to address those areas of highest unmet medical need to better protect public health – now and in the future.” Suneet Varma Pfizer Essential Health APAC, Greater China, Global Brands Bringing Critical Anti-Infective Options to Patients and Physicians Pfizer continues to invest in novel treatments for infectious diseases to address the greatest patient medical needs. Most bacteria are classified as Gram-positive or Gram-negative. The latter are harder to treat due to their cell structure and their ability to develop resistance to commonly used antibiotics. In March 2017, we launched in the U.K. and Germany Zavicefta™ (ceftazidime-avibactam), a novel combination antibiotic for the treatment of patients with certain confirmed or suspected Gramnegative bacterial infections requiring hospitalization. Zavicefta was acquired as part of the December 2016 deal with AstraZeneca PLC for its small molecule anti-infective business primarily outside the U.S. It was developed in response to the urgent medical need for new antibiotics for difficult-to-treat Gram-negative bacteria. Since March 2017, Zavicefta has launched in more than 14 countries. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. for exclusive commercialization rights for Cresemba® (isavuconazole) in Europe, excluding Nordic countries, and for exclusive development and commercialization rights in China and several other countries in the Asia Pacific region. Cresemba is a novel anti-fungal treatment for adult patients with diagnosed invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis, two serious infections caused by mold that are associated with high morbidity and mortality among immunocompromised patients. As the global leader in anti-infectives, we are dedicated to the ongoing research and development of innovative products for patients with difficult-to-treat infections, including antibiotic-resistant infections. Pfizer is taking a leading role in public-private collaborations with the U.S. government and the EU Innovative Medicines Initiative to support the development of antibiotics to treat multi-drug resistant infections that pose an increasing global threat to public health. In addition, we are invested in expanding access to anti-infectives that help address areas of greatest unmet medical need, such as the treatment of Gram-negative infections and invasive fungal infections. We expect to continue to make these important medicines available to many more patients across the globe throughout 2018. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Anti-Infectives 111 Vaccines – A Partner in Addressing Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) In addition to the need for the development of new antibiotics and rational use of anti-infective medicines, experts agree that vaccines also play a vital role in addressing AMR.1 Vaccines are typically administered to help prevent infections from happening in the first place, which naturally leads to a reduction in the need for antibiotics. To date, several studies have demonstrated the beneficial role existing vaccines play in the reduction of AMR, and Pfizer is committed to continuing the development of new, innovative vaccines to help prevent serious disease globally.2 Commitment to Patients, Beyond Just Medicines While anti-infectives have revolutionized medicine, the rapid spread of AMR is raising serious and acute concerns of life-threatening infections becoming impossible to treat and many routine medical procedures becoming too risky to perform. At Pfizer, we are deeply committed to leveraging our expertise and capabilities and working closely with the infectious disease community to address AMR through: • Active stewardship to help ensure patients receive the correct antibiotic only if needed and for the right duration • Global policy leadership to facilitate antibiotic development and proper use • Innovative surveillance tools (ATLAS) to help physicians better understand current resistance patterns, now offered as both an interactive, user-friendly website and as a mobile application enabling rapid access • Working to expand a diverse portfolio of medicines and vaccines to treat and prevent serious infections around the world • Responsible manufacturing practices that do not harm human health or the environment Read more about antimicrobial resistance. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Anti-Infectives 112 ATLAS Infographic View infographic 1. O’Neill, J. (2016). Tackling Drug-Resistant Infections Globally: Final Report and Recommendations. Review on Antimicrobial Resistance. Available from: https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/160525_Final%20 paper_with%20cover.pdf 2. Utt, Eric A. and Charles Wells (2016). The global response to the threat of antimicrobial resistance and the important role of vaccines. Pharmaceuticals Policy and Law 18 (2016) 179–197]. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Anti-Infectives 113 OUR INNOVATION Oncology Pfizer’s advances in oncology exemplify the power of scientific innovation to transform lives. From immuno-oncology to cell therapy to the continued evolution of personalized medicine, our portfolio and pipeline of cutting-edge therapies aim to change the way the world approaches cancer treatment. We apply that same rigor to meeting the day-to-day emotional, financial and educational needs of these patients in order to help improve their lives. In 2017, Pfizer Oncology achieved a large number of product approvals by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines Agency (EMA) and regulatory authorities around the globe. These approvals included: • Bavencio® (avelumab) – in partnership with EMD Serono, the biopharmaceutical business of Merck KGaA – an immuno-oncology agent and the first immunotherapy approved for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC), a rare and aggressive skin cancer, as well as for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) who have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, or who have disease progression within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy • Besponsa® (inotuzumab ozogamicin) for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory β-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia • Mylotarg® (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed CD33-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or for patients two years of age and older with CD33-positive AML who have experienced a relapse or who have not responded to initial treatment (refractory) 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Oncology 114 • Expanded indications for Ibrance® (palbociclib) in advanced or metastatic breast cancer • Sutent® (sunitinib malate) in renal cell carcinoma • Bosulif® (bosutinib) in newly-diagnosed chronic phase (CP) Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia Mindful that patients need support on managing their life with cancer, we worked closely with the professional and advocacy communities to develop and expand programs such as Pfizer Oncology Together™, a one-stop shop for patients to get resources related to our therapies, and This Is Living With Cancer™, which provides additional tools for cancer patients, their families and caregivers. ACTIVATING THE IMMUNE SYSTEM 1:22 Using Breakthrough Science to Transform the Treatment of Cancer This year, Pfizer continued to accelerate its work in immuno-oncology (IO), which is an approach to cancer treatment that is designed to harness the natural ability of the body’s immune system to recognize and fight cancer. As an emerging player in next-generation IO science, we recognize the urgency of our mission to help patients in need of anti-cancer alternatives. Pfizer is investigating a diverse array of compounds with the goal of helping more patients benefit from the power of IO. In March, the FDA granted accelerated approval of Bavencio® as the first and only treatment for adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with mMCC, a rare and aggressive skin cancer. Just FDA six weeks later, the FDA also granted accelerated approval of Bavencio for the treatment of patients accelerated approval with locally-advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) who have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, or who have disease progression within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 115 These indications are approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and duration of response. Continued approval for these indications may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. Bavencio, a human anti-PD-L1 antibody, is being developed 7,000 through a collaboration by Pfizer and Merck KGaA, patients evaluated Darmstadt, Germany. We have extended the reach of Bavencio in treating patients with mMCC beyond our initial success in the U.S., with approvals in Switzerland, the EU and Japan. The clinical development program for avelumab, known as JAVELIN, involves at least 30 clinical programs and more than 7,000 patients evaluated across more than 15 different tumor types. In addition, by building unique doublet and triplet combinations, pairing IOs with each other or with targeted or traditional therapies, we have the opportunity to address difficult-to-treat cancers that don’t respond to currently approved 8 immunotherapies, and we are exploring these combinations in several planned or ongoing trials. IO compounds We currently have eight IO compounds in the clinic being evaluated and are evaluating them as both monotherapies in the clinic and as combination treatments. Expanding Treatment Options in Breast Cancer In March, the FDA approved Pfizer’s supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Ibrance®, our first-in-class cyclin dependent kinase 4/6 (CDK 4/6) inhibitor. This FDA action broadened the range of anti-hormonal therapies that may be administered in combination with Ibrance. Ibrance now is indicated in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, expanding on its earlier indication in combination with letrozole, as initial endocrine-based therapy in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive (HR+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HER2-) advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Ibrance also is approved in combination with fulvestrant in women with HR+, HER2advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose disease progressed following endocrine therapy. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 116 Advancing the Science of Leukemia Treatment In December, the FDA approved Pfizer’s sNDA for Bosulif® to expand the indication to include adult patients with newly-diagnosed chronic-phase (CP) Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (Ph+ CML). The sNDA was reviewed and approved under the FDA’s Priority Review and accelerated approval programs based on major molecular response (MMR; the primary endpoint) and cytogenetic response rates (CCyR). Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and confirmation of clinical benefit in an ongoing long-term follow up trial. The EMA has also validated for review a Type II Variation application for use of Bosulif in the same patient population and the application is under review. Addressing Areas of Unmet Need in Prostate Cancer In September, Pfizer and our commercial/ development partner, Astellas, announced top-line results from the Phase 3 PROSPER trial of Xtandi® (enzalutamide) in patients with non-metastatic (M0) Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC). The trial showed that Xtandi, combined with standard of care Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) versus ADT alone demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in metastasis-free survival (MFS) in this non-metastatic patient population. Building on Our Commitment to Kidney Cancer Patients In November, the FDA approved Sutent® for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma (RCC) following nephrectomy. Sutent, which was approved more than a decade ago to treat advanced RCC, is the first approved adjuvant treatment in RCC, providing an option for patients that were previously limited to a wait-and-see approach. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 117 Leading a Call-to-Action in Advanced Metastatic Breast Cancer In collaboration with the European School of Oncology, Pfizer announced in March the Global mBC Vision 2025 Call-to-Action to address the most pressing, pertinent and actionable gaps that patients with metastatic breast cancer (mBC) around the world face, as identified by a multi-stakeholder task force. Based on findings from the Global Status of Advanced/Metastatic Breast Cancer 2005-2015 Decade Report, the call-to-action was designed to unite the mBC community by catalyzing change to improve and extend the lives of patients with mBC by the year 2025. This important work has been taken forward by the ABC Global Alliance to form the ABC Global Charter. Read more about the ABC Global Charter. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 118 Call-to-Action Imperatives for Improving Metastatic Breast Cancer (mBC) Patient Care by 2025 Scientific Comprehensive Societal Investment Patient Care Support • Double median overall • Increase availability and • Increase public survival for patients with access to multidisciplinary understanding of mBC mBC care, including palliative, • Improve access to nonsupportive and • Improve quality of life for clinical supportive services patients with mBC in psychosocial assistance, for for mBC patients, families and clinical practice • caregivers Protect workforce rights for • Improve availability of patients with mBC • Strive for all patients with good-quality epidemiology mBC to have financial and outcomes data for support mBC • O er communication skills training to all health care providers • Provide mBC-specific information tools for every patient SPARC-ing Efforts for Change in mBC In conjunction with Metastatic Breast Cancer Awareness Day on October 13, Pfizer and the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) announced a new round of grants, totaling $500,000, to organizations taking part in the second phase of the Seeding Progress and Resources for the Cancer Community: Metastatic Breast Cancer Challenge (SPARC MBC Challenge). Of the more than 80 submissions received (from 42 countries), 20 organizations from 19 countries were selected to receive funding. The selected projects will be implemented to help close the gap in information, support, awareness and policy between mBC and early disease, as well as help reduce the number of women initially diagnosed at the metastatic stage of breast cancer. In addition, Pfizer is providing a further $30,000 to support the continuation of selected ongoing SPARC projects from the first round of grants issued in 2015. Read more about the SPARC MBC Challenge. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 119 Supporting the Needs of Cancer Patients in the Community Today, more than 15 million people in the U.S. are living with cancer, and that number is expected to grow as additional therapies allow more patients to live with the disease. Building on our legacy of meaningful cancer support, Pfizer works closely with patient advocates, professional organizations and policy makers to better understand and meet the needs of these patients, their families and caregivers and others impacted by cancer. We take a scientific approach to providing the educational, emotional and psychosocial resources that can help make a real difference in outcomes for cancer patients by leveraging insights and data to inform our content. We also provide millions of dollars in grants each year to fund organizations that provide essential programs and services to patients coping with a wide range of cancers. Pfizer Oncology Together™ To help patients better manage their lives with cancer, this year we launched Pfizer Oncology Together™, a first-of-its-kind program for patient access solutions and personalized support for those using Pfizer Oncology medicines in the U.S. As part of the program, patients will have access to a team of representatives with social work experience ‘Care Champions’ who provide support beyond traditional access and reimbursement services by connecting them with a wide variety of patient education resources and outreach programs. The program’s services include identifying independent third-party resources that provide emotional support, lodging and transportation, providing tools to help with workplace transitions for patients balancing their jobs and treatment, and connecting patients and their families to local outreach programs. This service provides patients and caregivers with a dedicated representative over the course of their treatment. 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 120 This is Living with Cancer™ Continuing Pfizer’s efforts to put patients first by supporting those living with cancer and their caregivers, in October, we launched This Is Living with Cancer™, a program that provides tools and resources to support any patient who has been affected by cancer. The program includes a mobile app, LivingWith™, designed to help manage some of the daily challenges faced by people living with cancer. LivingWith provides patients and caregivers with a tool to organize certain important information in one place, including: build a network of support from friends and family to get help with daily tasks, record and remember important information from doctor visits, track mood/pain and connect with wearables, get organized and store key documents, receive information about local events and nutrition articles. “Cancer patients can feel isolated and unsure about how to navigate care and approach day-to-day life. Pfizer’s new programming that goes beyond treatment is critical in helping patients and their care networks deal with the challenges associated with living with cancer.” Myra Biblowit President and Chief Executive Officer, Breast Cancer Research Foundation Breast Cancer: A Story Half Told® Michael Kovarik, a retired elementary school teacher, radio host and author, became the first man to participate in the Story Half Told initiative to share his journey living with mBC and shine a light on the need for greater understanding of male breast cancer. Launched in 2014, the Story Half Told initiative aims to elevate public understanding of mBC, dispel misperceptions and combat stigma. MICHAEL KOVARIK 3:57 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 121 Facing Life: Voices of mBC Patients In order to put a face to metastatic breast cancer, cancer care advocate and photographer Carolyn Taylor, founder of Global Focus on Cancer, traveled around the globe to photograph and interview more than 40 women with mBC in 12 countries. These interviews captured each woman’s unique story, perspective on life and the challenges she has faced while battling this disease. Learn more about their stories by visiting the patient gallery. “Problems. Work. It doesn’t matter. We are the most important thing in our life, and sometimes we ignore that. It’s a crisis of conscience. Now, I devour life. I have to be happy every day. It changes everything.” Karine Zamparo France Cada Minuto Cuenta (Every Minute Counts) mBC is the leading cause of death among women in Latin America. In an e ort to raise awareness, support patients and address unmet needs, Pfizer partnered with 21 Latin American breast cancer advocacy organizations in an ongoing initiative called “Cada Minuto Cuenta (Every Minute Counts). In Brazil, we distributed 2,000 patient materials across five major cities during Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Celebrities, cancer experts and athletes also supported this important initiative through videos shared on social media, and 637 media articles discussing mBC were published. These e orts reached 56 million Brazilians all over the country, showing that collaboration truly can improve patient lives, and make every minute count. In Brazil: 2,000 637 56m Patient materials Media articles Brazilians reached distributed across five discussing mBC were all over the country, major cities during Breast published showing that collaboration Cancer Awareness Month truly can improve patient lives, and make every minute count 2017 Annual Review Our Business, Our Purpose | Oncology 122 OUR INNOVATION Rare Disease Partnering to Impact Global Health One area where Pfizer sees incredible scientific potential is in gene therapy. The technology behind certain gene therapies involves introducing genetic material into the body of a patient to deliver a correct copy of a gene to compensate for a defective or missing one. We are working to explore the promise of gene therapy by leveraging our growing expertise and by making strategic investments, including building dedicated manufacturing facilities, and forging new partnerships and collaborations. THE POTENTIAL OF GENE THERAPY 1:18 Gene therapy has the potential to significantly change disease management and improve the lives of people with genetic disorders, particularly those genetic disorders that are caused by a single mutation. Gene Therapy: • Has the potential to treat many known rare genetic diseases • Offers potential for a one-time treatment 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Rare Disease 123 In August, Pfizer announced plans to invest $100 million to expand the company’s Sanford, North Carolina, manufacturing facility to focus on gene therapy. This builds on the 2016 acquisition of Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc., a North Carolina-based biotechnology company developing investigational gene therapies. This investment will create up to 40 jobs and help to advance technology, first developed at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which is being used by Bamboo. In May, we signed an exclusive, global collaboration and license agreement with Richmond, California-based Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. for the development and commercialization of gene therapy treatments for hemophilia A, including SB-525, one of Sangamo’s four lead product candidates. SB-525 is now in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial for adults with severe hemophilia A, a rare blood disorder caused by a genetic mutation resulting in insufficient activity of factor VIII, a blood-clotting protein the body uses to stop bleeding. Under the collaboration terms, Sangamo received a $70 million upfront payment from Pfizer and Sangamo will be responsible for conducting the Phase 1/2 study and certain manufacturing activities, while we will be responsible for subsequent research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities for SB-525 and any additional products. In December, interim data from the ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trial of SPK9001, a potentially transformative investigational gene therapy treatment for hemophilia B being developed in partnership with Spark Therapeutics, was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. VIEW INFOGRAPHIC 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Rare Disease 124 Marrying Science and Technology to Help People with Hemophilia In August, Pfizer launched Hemocraft™, a modification of the popular blockbased, multi-player video game, to help children living with hemophilia better approach education and activity tracking in the U.S. Created in partnership with the Entrepreneurial Game Studio at Drexel University and representatives from the hemophilia community, Hemocraft is designed to help children with hemophilia learn the importance of integrating treatment into their routine in an educational and fun gaming environment. Pfizer also created the HemMobile® Striiv® Wearable, a custom wristband and the first wearable made for patients with hemophilia, to help patients track daily activity levels and monitor heart rate to measure intensity. The wristband integrates with our existing HemMobile app, which allows users to log bleeds and infusions, monitor their factor supply and set appointment reminders. The captured data generate personalized reports to provide a user’s health care team with insights that can help guide the discussion between a physician and patient. Bringing a Scientific Approach to Sickle Cell Disease Patient Education Given the need to deepen understanding and perceptions around sickle cell disease (SCD) among African Americans, Pfizer collaborated with the National Newspaper Publishers Association (NNPA) – a trade association of the more than 200 African American-owned community newspapers in the U.S. – and scholars from Howard University on a poll designed to dispel long-held views of the disease. SCD is a lifelong and debilitating disorder that affects red blood cells. It is the most common inherited blood disorder in the U.S., and most people living with sickle cell disease are of African descent. In fact, SCD occurs in one out of every 365 African American births. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Rare Disease 125 Research like this – combining our laboratory-based science with real-world evidence – is important for us because, by gaining a better understanding of the perceptions of SCD among African Americans, we can further enhance our disease education and awareness efforts, while at the same time educating patients and their families about the importance of progressing the science and bringing novel treatments to those in need. The poll is a key initiative under the Pfizer-NNPA collaboration, which also included a series of articles with information regarding SCD and its impact, as well as common disease myths, published in NNPA-affiliated newspapers. Progressing the Science in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy In May, we completed enrollment of our Phase 2 clinical trial of domagrozumab (PF-06252616) for the treatment of boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, a rare genetic disease characterized by progressive muscle degeneration and weakness. The disease primarily affects boys, but in rare cases it can affect girls. Muscle weakness can begin as early as 3 years of age, first affecting the muscles of the hips, pelvic area, thighs and shoulders, and later the skeletal (voluntary) muscles in the arms, legs and trunk. The calves often are enlarged. By the early teens, the heart and respiratory muscles are also affected. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the estimated prevalence of DMD, or a less severe form known as Becker muscular dystrophy, is one in every 7,250 males in the U.S. between five and 24 years of age.1 Domagrozumab is an experimental, infused, anti-myostatin monoclonal antibody. Myostatin is a naturally occurring protein in muscles that helps control muscle growth; it is hypothesized that blocking the activity of myostatin may have potential therapeutic application in treating muscle degenerative diseases such as DMD. Domagrozumab was granted Orphan Drug and Fast Track designations by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2012. Building from the work started last year with the acquisition of Bamboo, we also continued our research in advanced recombinant adeno-associated virus-based gene therapies, working to bring our pre-clinical neuromuscular candidate for DMD into the clinical setting. 1. Romitti PA, Zhu Y, Puzhankara S, James KA, Nabukera SK, Zamba GK, Ciafaloni E, Cunniff C, Druschel CM, Mathews KD, Matthews DJ, Meaney FJ, Andrews JG, Conway KM, Fox DJ, Street N, Adams MM, Bolen J; MD STARnet. Prevalence of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies in the United States. Pediatrics. 2015 Mar;135(3):513-21 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Rare Disease 126 OUR INNOVATION Vaccines Pfizer Vaccines is infusing the power of transformative science into disease prevention. Our colleagues are committed to pursuing research and forming partnerships that speed the development and delivery of new, life-saving prophylactic vaccines for bacterial and viral diseases, infectious diseases and even cancer. Taking on the Challenge of Pneumococcal Disease In 2017, Prevenar 13® (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) was introduced to India’s Universal Immunization Program (UIP), with support from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to help reduce the number of pneumonia deaths in children five years of age and younger in India. An estimated 105,000 children in India 5 years of age and younger died in 2010 because of pneumococcal pneumonia, the highest number in the world.1 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Vaccines 127 To date we delivered more than 300 million doses of Prevenar 13, helping to protect 20 million babies in Gavi countries each year. Pfizer also introduced a multi dose-vial presentation of Prevenar 13 to Gavi countries in 2017. We believe the introduction of Prevenar 13 over a three-year period should have a significant impact in lowering the burden of pneumococcal disease and potentially help protect more than five million infants across the five Gavi-funded states of Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which represent about 20 percent of India’s birth cohort. With this, India joins more than 100 countries to have included Prevenar 13 in their pediatric National Immunization Program. Read more about our work with Gavi. Pfizer is dedicated to meeting Pfizer also provides support Pfizer also launched Prevenar the needs of people for programs and disease 13® in China in 2017 to help impacted by humanitarian awareness. In Niger, Mali and protect children 6 weeks to emergencies. In 2017, the Democratic Republic of 15 months of age, with the through our expanded Congo, Pfizer supports health vaccine now available in 22 humanitarian assistance care worker training intended provinces. Approximately program, hundreds of to help people recognize the 30,000 children in this age thousands of doses of early signs of pneumonia and group in China die due to Prevenar 13® were distributed inform caregivers of the pneumococcal diseases in Africa and the Middle East importance of vaccination. every year.2 to vaccinate those in Plans are in place to extend unfortunate situations this training to Angola. qualifying as humanitarian emergencies under World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Vaccines 128 Combating Meningitis in Infants, Adolescents and Young Adults Meningococcal disease continues to be a global health burden – and Pfizer remains dedicated to helping to protect against this disease. Changing epidemiology continues to spur outbreaks of this disease, and we continue to help supply vaccine to the areas in greatest need. In 2017, we responded to emergencies by supplying vaccine to outbreaks, including those in Nigeria, Australia and parts of Europe. We continued to advance Nimenrix® (meningococcal polysaccharide groups A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine) with expanded indications in many parts of the globe to include infants. As we continue to build out Nimenrix manufacturing capabilities we have invested in our manufacturing sites, including Puurs, Belgium, Grange Castle, Dublin, Ireland and North Carolina, U.S. Read more about manufacturing sites and how we are bringing jobs to North Carolina. In May, the European Commission approved Trumenba® (Meningococcal Group B Vaccine) for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B (MenB), in both a twoand three-dose series, in individuals 10 years of age and older, with subsequent approvals in Australia and Canada (in Canada, for individuals 10 through 25 years of age). Adolescents and young adults are a critical demographic for vaccination against MenB due to inherent environmental and social risk factors such as close-quartered living and sharing behaviors. While MenB is uncommon, the disease can progress rapidly, and symptoms are difficult to distinguish from other more common infections, with flu-like symptoms such as headache, nausea and vomiting among the earliest signs. We also made significant progress in expanding the reach of this important vaccine, with Trumenba launches in seven countries, including the U.K., Malta, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Portugal. The broader availability of Trumenba reinforces our dedication to advancing important vaccines that can help protect adolescents and young adults, a population at increased risk for meningococcal disease. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Vaccines 129 Progressing Our Pipeline to Take on the Global Public Health Burden of Infections Clostridium difficile. Staphylococcus aureus. Group B Streptococcus. Clostridium difficile (C. difficile), Likewise, we continue to In June, we initiated a Phase is the most common cause of investigate our Staphylococcus 1/2 trial of PF-06760805, our antibiotic-associated diarrhea in aureus (S. aureus) multi-antigen conjugate vaccine candidate to the health care setting and an vaccine [SA4Ag] candidate. S. help protect against Group B increasing concern worldwide. aureus is a bacterium that Streptococcus (GBS) infection, The bacteria are present in the approximately 30 percent of which can manifest as a serious environment and can colonize healthy individuals may be neonatal blood infection the human intestine. When colonized with at any given (sepsis), pneumonia and conditions are right, such as time. In health care settings, meningitis in newborns, with when patients have taken these infections can be serious potentially fatal outcomes or antibiotics, they can multiply or even fatal. Our vaccine is long-lasting neurological and express toxins that lead to designed to help protect damage in those infected. diarrhea. A recent study from against invasive S. aureus Women who are colonized with the U.S. Centers for Disease infections by inducing the GBS bacteria may pass it on Control and Prevention (CDC) functional antibodies that to their newborns during labor found that the incidence of C. intercept and help to kill the and birth. This is the first clinical difficile infection (CDI) nearly bacteria when penetrating our step in our efforts to explore the doubled from 2001 to 2012, natural barriers. The Phase 2b potential of immunizing women and in 2011 alone there were STRIVE (ST aphylococcus during pregnancy, a process 453,000 cases in the U.S. and aureus suRgical Inpatient known as maternal approximately 29,000 deaths. Vaccine Efficacy) safety and immunization, to protect their In light of the burden of efficacy study, investigating the new babies from devastating disease, the CDC classified C. potential of SA4Ag to help infections. difficile as an urgent public prevent invasive S. aureus health threat in 2013. surgical site infections occurring 90 days after surgery, is Two main toxins cause this ongoing. The study is being illness, and we are progressing conducted in 6,000 adult PF-06425090, our vaccine patients undergoing elective candidate comprised of instrumented spinal fusion detoxified versions of these surgery. toxins in clinical trials. We used a novel genetic engineering approach to make the vaccine. In 2017, we initiated the Phase 3 CLOVER (CLOstridium difficile Vaccine Efficacy tRial) trial to assess the vaccine candidate’s safety and efficacy in preventing infection in adults. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Vaccines 130 Embracing Technology to Educate on Vaccination Social media continues to transform the way people access health information, and Pfizer has eagerly embraced this technology to engage and educate people on the importance of disease prevention and the value of vaccination. As part of our patient-centric approach, we tap into social and digital channels to reach our key audiences. Whether it’s reaching adults via Facebook Live streaming videos focused on the importance of vaccination or educating though impactful videos, we strive to find new and innovative ways to help inform our audiences. 1:46 1:02 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Vaccines 131 Pfizer’s Susan Silbermann, Global President and General Manager, Pfizer Vaccines, partnered with the United Nations (UN) Foundation’s Shot@Life at the UN General Assembly to highlight the impact of vaccination for children in developing countries. Legendary entertainer Patti LaBelle joined Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D., Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, Pfizer, in support of our Get Old initiative to encourage people to live well and stay in control of their health. Patti also encouraged adults 65+ to get a “New Attitude” about the risks of developing pneumococcal pneumonia and the importance of vaccination. Watch to learn more. The Hero project also highlighted the value of staying healthy as you get older. It centers on the unique relationship between grandparents and grandchildren in Europe and the importance of protecting your heroes. In France, Precious Moments demonstrates the importance of vaccination to new parents through an engaging and relatable narrative. 1. Farooqui H, Jit M, Heymann DL, Zodpey S (2015). Burden of Severe Pneumonia, Pneumococcal Pneumonia and Pneumonia Deaths in Indian States: Modelling Based Estimates. PLoS ONE10(6): e0129191. 2. O’Brien KL, et al. Burden of disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in children younger than 5 years: global estimates. Lancet. 2009; 374(9693): 893-902 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Vaccines 132 OUR INNOVATION Pipeline As our understanding of the science and nature of disease evolves, Pfizer strives to address the needs of patients through our extensive portfolio of medicines and vaccines with a keen eye toward the future. Powered by innovative discovery research and development, our scientists take pride in inventing molecules that have the potential to meet patient needs and taking them through rigorous testing and, hopefully, registration and regulatory approval. We have built a broad pipeline of compounds that we believe hold the potential to deliver new, lifechanging therapies for a wide range of debilitating and chronic diseases. Additionally, our research and development teams dedicate their efforts to developing complex sterile injectables, new drug delivery systems, new formulations of existing therapies and expansion into new markets. Our global research pipeline – focused on areas where we believe we can make a significant contribution to patients – has 87 compounds in various stages of development. Approximately 45 percent of the 87 compounds are in Phase 3 trials or registration. Pfizer Pipeline as of January 30, 2018 Discovery projects 30 18 29 10 87 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration Total 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Pipeline 133 Spotlight on Biosimilars For the last decade, Pfizer’s biosimilars – high-quality, highly similar versions of reference biologic medicines – have been delivering on the promise of expanding patient treatment options and seeking to improve outcomes for millions of patients with inflammatory diseases, autoimmune diseases and cancer. Building on our strengths in developing biologics, our biosimilars development pipeline is one of the largest such pipelines globally, with 12 total assets and seven in midto late-stage development. Recent milestones include the December U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of Ixifi™ (infliximab-qbtx), also a biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab), the acceptance for review of applications by the FDA and European Medicines Agency (EMA) for PF-05280014, our proposed biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab), and acceptance for review of our application by the FDA of PF-06881893, our proposed biosimilar to Neupogen® (filgrastim). Spotlight on Immunology & Inflammation (I&I) Pfizer infuses the power of scientific innovation into our Inflammation & Immunology research and development efforts. We are working to transform the evolving treatment paradigm in inflammation beyond broad immunosuppression. In the clinic, we are targeting more selective inhibition of pro-inflammatory pathways to deliver potentially transformational outcomes for patients. We have established leading kinase capabilities with multiple kinase inhibitor therapies in development. As a pioneer in Janus kinase (JAK) science, we’re advancing several investigational programs with novel selectivity profiles, which, if successful, could potentially deliver transformative therapies for patients with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and alopecia areata. Spotlight on Rare Disease The science that powers Pfizer’s work in rare disease combines a deep understanding of disease biology, pioneering clinical research and ongoing dialogue with patients, who are steadfast partners in our work to translate science into medicine. Our goal is to develop effective therapies for rare diseases where there is the greatest treatment need and where we have unique, differentiated capabilities to bring potentially transformative options to patients. This includes the areas of hemophilia, sickle cell disease, amyloidosis, neuromuscular and inherited metabolic disorders. We currently have more than 20 compounds in various stages of development in our rare disease pipeline (spanning 12 potential indications), and most have received Orphan Drug designation in the U.S. and EU. We have late-stage pipeline opportunities in transthyretin amyloidosis and sickle cell disease and we are investigating highly specialized, potential one-time gene therapy treatments for diseases that have single gene defects, such as certain neuromuscular and hematologic diseases 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Pipeline 134 OUR INNOVATION Clinical Trials Science and innovation are core to everything we do at Pfizer, and our drug development activities, including our clinical trials, are no exception. We readily embrace cutting-edge technologies, strategies and partnerships to help ensure our clinical trials are conducted with speed, agility and the highest attention to quality, to optimize our ability to bring innovative medicines and vaccines to patients as quickly as possible. As technologies evolve, Pfizer is evolving drug development – the “D” in R&D. Development encompasses many activities from pharmacology to data management, but the heart of it is clinical trials – the rigorous process by which a proposed therapy is tested in humans, often over the course of many years, to assess safety and efficacy. As of the end of 2017, Pfizer had more than 300 active trials under way involving more than 55,000 patients. Transforming Our Approach to Clinical Trials Clinical trials have long been the most time-consuming, complex and expensive element of drug development. Today’s leaps in technology and ‘big data’ analytics, combined with breakthroughs in the understanding and medical application of human biology, are radically transforming the way drugs are developed; however, new methodologies must preserve the paramount goals of protecting patients and evaluating potential risks as well as benefits. Pfizer is seeking to modernize clinical trials by pursuing what Rod MacKenzie, Pfizer’s Chief Development Officer, calls ‘extreme optimization.’ He explains: “We have one big job, and that is to serve our patients. To do that well, we have to work within the current clinical trials system and make it better, even as we work in parallel on more innovative ways to bring therapies forward.” 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Clinical Trials 135 MacKenzie leads Pfizer’s Global Product Development (GPD) organization, created in 2016 to strengthen drug development at Pfizer as a discipline and make it a competitive advantage. MacKenzie and his leadership team set a strategy for becoming “best in class,” or among the very top performers in the industry in drug development. Since that time, in less than two years, Pfizer has already climbed into the top quartile on key drug development performance metrics. Pfizer has also prioritized working directly with patients to plan how clinical trials may run. We are using new techniques and emerging digital technologies, from wearables and apps to ride-sharing services, to help accelerate and support patient recruitment – including among more diverse patient populations – and to make it easier and more convenient for patients to follow medication schedules and visit clinics. Driving Diversity in Clinical Trials This year, Pfizer launched an internal center of excellence within Pfizer to further establish diversity across our research portfolio. We took a multi-pronged approach to strengthen recruitment of under-represented patient populations in clinical trials, including a new investigator training program and revised recruitment and retention strategies, and engaged in key community-focused collaborations. Of particular interest are the Investigator Awareness Workshop, with videos to illustrate the importance of a diverse study population and barriers to minority enrollment and potential solutions, and the development of a Live Dashboard to inform the Pfizer development teams in real time about the diversity profile of the population in their ongoing clinical programs compared to the profile of the population with the disease being studied. 2017 Annual Review Our Innovation | Clinical Trials 136 OUR SUSTAINABLE POLICIES & PRACTICES Governance & Ethics Pfizer, we understand that good governance is essential to the success of our business and we conduct ourselves accordingly. Corporate Governance Pfizer is committed to exercising strong corporate governance practices. We believe that good governance promotes the long-term interests of our shareholders, strengthens Board and management accountability and improves our standing as a trusted member of society. We maintain and enhance our long record of excellence in corporate governance by regularly refining our corporate governance policies and procedures to reflect evolving practices and issues raised by our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our governance structure and processes are guided by key governance documents, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Committee Charters, which govern the operation of the Board of Directors and its Committees in the execution of their responsibilities. While the governance practices and structures of an organization are very important, we believe the key to an effective governance structure is an engaged and experienced Board of Directors that is committed to protecting and enhancing shareholder value. We are fortunate to have a Board that is diverse, active, independent-minded and collegial, and provides valuable insights with respect to oversight of management and our overall strategic direction. Our Board consists entirely of Independent Directors, with the exception of Ian Read, Pfizer’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Albert Bourla, Pfizer’s Chief Operating Officer. Read more about our Board of Directors. Read more about our Corporate Governance. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Governance & Ethics 137 Ethical Sales and Marketing We are committed to promoting Pfizer’s products responsibly, educating patients and providers about their appropriate use and reporting about our business practices in a fashion that promotes transparency. Read more about our Ethical Sales and Marketing. Direct-to-Consumer Advertising in the U.S. Pfizer’s strict internal standards, going beyond compliance with all applicable laws, have been developed to help ensure that the information we share with patients is scientifically sound, balanced, easy to understand and helpful in encouraging them to consult with a health care professional. Read more about our Direct-to-Consumer Advertising. Compliance Pfizer believes that compliance with all applicable laws is integral to our ability to serve society. We train colleagues extensively in compliance and have an organizational structure designed to help ensure good oversight of our colleagues, vendors and business partners. Read more about our Compliance. Disclosing Payments to Health Care Professionals Pfizer does not pay health care professionals for prescribing our medicines or as an inducement for promoting our products. We believe it is appropriate and ethical to fairly compensate health care professionals for work they do on our behalf. Read more about our Disclosing Payments to Health Care Professionals. Human Rights In 2017, Pfizer worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit organization that works with its partners to build a just and sustainable world, to complete a Human Rights Impact Assessment. The report identified our most relevant human rights risks and opportunities across our various business units and operations globally, as well as analyzing in depth how our programs aimed at access to medicines address specific human rights expectations of our stakeholders. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Governance & Ethics 138 Addressing human rights issues is important to us and we have worked with BSR to categorize relevant rights into priority impact areas, which will help us address these issues across the organization: 1. Access to health 2. Social & environmental product impacts 3. Ethics in research and development 4. Fair business practices 5. Supply chain management Pfizer supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We were an early signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact – a document that asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the UN – that endorses 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Pfizer is also one of the original founding member companies of the “Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative,” a nonprofit organization established to promote continuous improvement across the pharmaceutical supply chain in the areas of labor, ethics, environmental, health and safety responsible procurement practices. Read more about our Human Rights, including our updated policy. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Governance & Ethics 139 OUR SUSTAINABLE POLICIES & PRACTICES Environment, Health & Safety Pfizer’s commitment to ensuring every individual lives the healthiest life possible goes beyond just health care. We are dedicated to protecting the environment and communities around us and ensuring the health and safety of our colleagues. We integrate environmental sustainability into our business through the work we do every day. Through of Environmental Sustainability Council we work to incorporate environmental sustainability across all aspects of our organization with the objective of adding greater value to society and our business. Our Environmental Sustainability program focuses on three core areas: mitigating climate change and its impact through reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions; reducing waste through the lifecycle of our products; and reducing water use. Working Towards Solutions in the Fight against Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) The World Health Organization characterizes AMR as one of the biggest threats to global public health today. It can affect anyone at any age in any country, threatening our ability to treat serious infections and potentially making standard medical procedures too risky to perform. AMR is defined as a bacterium, virus or fungus developing a resistance to the medicine(s) commonly used to treat infections, including antibiotics, antivirals and antifungals. There are approximately 700,000 deaths per year attributed to antimicrobial resistance globally, with an increase to 10 million predicted by 2050 if no action is taken to address this issue. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Environment, Health & Safety 140 In 2016, Pfizer and 12 industry partners released a comprehensive plan of action that outlines the four key commitments we pledge to deliver by 2020 to reduce the rising incidence of AMR. In 2017, we put that Roadmap into action and took a leading role in the AMR Industry Alliance by spearheading its manufacturing group (the Alliance Manufacturing Group). The Alliance Manufacturing Group is working to enhance the practices used to control the presence of antibiotics in manufacturing waste and to advance the scientific understanding of the potential impact of antibiotic discharges from manufacturing to the environment, including risks to human health. The Alliance Manufacturing Group is developing an environmental framework for manufacturing operations focused on wastewater discharge and waste management good practices to minimize releases of antibiotics to the environment. HARNESSING PATTERNS IN DATA 1:40 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Environment, Health & Safety 141 In 2017, we made the following progress against the AMR Roadmap commitments: Commitment Review our manufacturing and supply chains to assess good practices in managing the release of antibiotic discharge into the environment. Update Pfizer has completed initial assessments of antibiotic discharges at all our Pfizer-owned and -operated manufacturing sites and at our antibiotics suppliers in India and China. While many of these assessments indicate good practices are being implemented, work to further characterize risk and the adequacy of manufacturing controls is being undertaken at a number of facilities. Commitment Establish a common framework for managing antibiotic discharge, building on existing work such as the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), and apply these principles across our own internal manufacturing and external supply chain by 2018. Update Pfizer worked closely with the Alliance Manufacturing Group to develop the framework. Commitment Work with stakeholders to develop a practical mechanism to transparently demonstrate that our supply chains meet the standards in the framework. Update The Alliance Manufacturing Group engaged with stakeholders, including experts from academia and government, and participated in key AMR meetings hosted by the UN Foundation and U.S. National Academy of Science to gain critical insights and inputs towards the development of this new mechanism. Commitment Work with independent technical experts to establish science-driven, risk-based targets for discharge concentrations for antibiotics and good practice methods to reduce environmental impact of manufacturing discharges by 2020. Update The Alliance Manufacturing Group shared eco-toxicological information, which will be used to better understand the current approaches to discharge concentration target setting, determine data gaps, and help determine the most appropriate mechanisms to establish science-driven risk-based targets for discharge concentrations. While this work continues, as precautionary measure and using existing published methodology, Pfizer is establishing antibiotic discharge targets that will minimize potential discharges from manufacturing operations. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Environment, Health & Safety 142 As a member of the Alliance, we are committed to developing solutions to address the potential impact of manufacturing on AMR. Success will require good environmental management practices to be adopted across the entire industry antibiotic supply chains. We believe that widespread adoption of the Alliance Manufacturing framework will be a key step in this direction. With the manufacturing framework developed and as it is adopted, Pfizer and the Alliance Manufacturing Group believe that verification of effectiveness of measures will be an important component of the program, and we are working with the Alliance Manufacturing Group and other organizations, such as PSCI, to incorporate this into supplier auditing protocols. Access our policy paper on our antibiotic stewardship, and read more about Pfizer’s leadership in the fight against AMR. Innovation in Safety Through the OWNIT! Culture, colleagues can focus on the choices they make every day to care for their safety and the safety and health of their fellow workers. While we experienced an increase in our injury rates in 2017, mainly as a result of increased slips, trips and falls and ergonomic injuries, overall our rates are low and comparable to industry benchmarks. Moreover, we believe that the focus on our OWNIT! Culture will continue to benefit the safety and health of each colleague at Pfizer as we strive for a workplace free of injury and illness. The culture of innovation within our safety and health programs is also important as we keep pace with the novel science that powers research and development and manufacturing at Pfizer. For example, biological materials are involved in many parts of Pfizer’s pipeline, including immunology and inflammation, oncology, vaccines, metabolic diseases, anti-infectives, biosimilars and rare disease. Understanding the hazards associated with these biological materials and ensuring we have controls in place to protect the colleagues working with these biological materials is accomplished through a Biosafety Program based on collaboration and technical expertise. The Biosafety Program applies a global framework for effective biological risk assessment and innovates via a Biosafety Network of colleagues who share scientific knowledge, resources, best practices and a passion for developing solutions. Through the Biosafety Network, controls are developed and implemented to protect the safety and health of the many researchers and manufacturing colleagues working to get biologically based medicines to patients. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Environment, Health & Safety 143 “In 2017, as more colleagues and sites worked on emerging technologies like those involved in gene therapy, I was proud to be a member of a network of colleagues passionate about ensuring effective controls are in place to protect colleagues working with biological materials. We collaborate and innovate to help keep colleagues safe and well and, at the same time, support the larger purpose of Pfizer to get needed medicines to patients.” Jessica Avizinis Manager, Pfizer Global Environmental, Health and Safety, Registered Biosafety Professional Progress Towards our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Goals Pfizer is on track to meet our 2020 environmental sustainability goals for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste reductions and water conservation. Our GHG goal to reduce emissions 20 percent by 2020 from a 2012 baseline has been recognized as a Science Based Target by an initiative led by CDP (formally the Carbon Disclosure Project), the United Nations Global Compact, the World Resources Institute and the World Wildlife Fund. As we have integrated new sites to our operations (e.g. through the Hospira integration), we have focused on opportunities to drive energy efficiencies and reduce GHG emissions at these locations. At our newest site in Suzhou, China, we built a new highly energy efficient facility that has been recognized as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) platinum. In 2017, to support our goal of achieving a 15 percent reduction in waste disposed by the end of 2020 from a 2012 baseline, we continued to implement targeted reviews at sites to identify waste reduction opportunities. We also invested in water reduction projects and remain on track to achieve a five percent reduction in water withdrawal (excluding non-contact cooling water) by the end of 2020, compared to the 2012 baseline. The year 2017 was the second year supporting our 2020 Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goals. We have an extensive supply chain, ranging from suppliers of general commodities to specialized active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturers. All are expected to adhere to Pfizer’s supplier code of conduct and align with the PSCI principles. In addition, we have chosen to engage with a subset of our key suppliers to advance our environmental sustainability program. One hundred and fifty-eight suppliers were part of the 2017 survey and we have seen progress made on all elements of the 2020 Goal, including managing environmental impacts and instituting sustainability reduction goals. 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Environment, Health & Safety 144 To support our suppliers on their sustainability journeys, in 2017 we worked with vendors to offer a voluntary program to match suppliers with small to medium size regional firms that are capable of providing services to help improve suppliers’ environmental sustainability programs. Overall, these efforts allowed us to make further progress in 2017 towards our 2020 environmental sustainability goals. How our work in this area is supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic public health solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Through public-private partnerships like the International Trachoma Initiative, as well as efforts to limit our water consumption, we aim to advance public health by improving water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Throughout the lifecycle of our products, we are working towards reducing our carbon footprint and increasing energy efficiency, decreasing dependence on limited resources and reducing waste. Goal 13: Climate Action 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Environment, Health & Safety 145 OUR SUSTAINABLE POLICIES & PRACTICES Stakeholder Engagement Throughout Pfizer, we regularly engage with a broad range of stakeholders who impact the way we do business globally and on regional and local levels. These stakeholders help inform and validate our decision-making processes and provide us with guidance and insights that can help us move our business forward responsibly, allowing us to continue to develop and deliver innovative, transformative medicines and vaccines to the people who need them. These stakeholders are essential partners in the work we do and, because each one brings a unique perspective to the table, we can collaborate with them at various levels to make a positive impact internally and externally. All across Pfizer, we are putting the science of engaging stakeholders to work every day to benefit patients, the global health community, our colleagues, our partners, our shareholders and our business. Our key stakeholders include, but are not limited to: • Individuals, including patients, caregivers and healthy individuals who stand to benefit from our medicines, vaccines and disease education initiatives. Read more about how we work with patients on our clinical trials • Physicians and allied health professionals who work closely with Pfizer from the earliest stages of drug and vaccine development. Read more about how our medicines and vaccines are helping people around the world 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Stakeholder Engagement 146 • Governments, policy-makers, and regulatory authorities that help guide our medicines and vaccines from the laboratory to the patient, partner with Pfizer to expand access to our products and positively impact the environment while doing so. Read more about how we’re minimizing our environmental footprint • Public health organizations that provide access to our medicines and vaccines for people in need, and on-the-ground support for health and education initiatives. Read more about our work in providing access to medicines and vaccines • Professional medical organizations that work closely with Pfizer to educate their members about the latest research on our medicines and vaccines, our pipeline and ways to access our products • Patient advocacy groups that help support patient needs beyond treatment and motivate other stakeholders to effect changes in health care policy • Colleagues who come to work at Pfizer every day with a common goal of helping the people who stand to benefit the most from our medicines and vaccines. Read more about how we engage employees to give back to the community • Academic institutions that partner with us and drive the cutting-edge research that helps fuel future generations of innovative medicines and vaccines • Industry partners who come together with Pfizer to bring innovation into drug and vaccine discovery and development • Hospitals and pharmacies on the frontlines of patient care that rely on the medicines and vaccines we develop and deliver to treat patients and improve their quality of life • Customers who purchase and prescribe/sell our portfolio of pharmaceutical, vaccine and over-the-counter products • Media, both traditional and social, that provide a direct link to patients, health care professionals and other stakeholders and serve as an information resource for the important work we do • Shareholders and analysts who have a vested interest in the day-to-day operations and, ultimately, the short, medium, and long-term, success of Pfizer • Suppliers, a diverse group that helps ensure that all units within Pfizer, from manufacturing to research and development to corporate, have the requisite tools to do our jobs every day 2017 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices | Stakeholder Engagement 147 ABOUT THIS REVIEW About this Review Scope of Reporting This review covers Pfizer’s worldwide business and provides information on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2017. It describes key dimensions of both financial and non-financial performance. It also describes critical challenges in society – from expanding access to health care to our environmental impact – and our strategies for addressing them. Corporate Responsibility Materiality The content of this report is based on two key factors – its importance to stakeholders and its potential to influence business strategy. Our Corporate Responsibility team works with colleagues across the organization and engages with external stakeholders to help identify the critical issues we need to focus on to meet our commercial goals and society’s expectations. These include the following non-financial, corporate responsibility issues that influence the sustainability of the organization: • Access to Medicines • Environment (sustainability) • Culture and Employee Engagement/Retention • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Quality, Manufacturing and Supply Chain • Governance and Ethics 2017 Annual Review About this Review 148 Stakeholder Engagement We greatly value our stakeholders’ perspectives, and all Pfizer units globally and locally engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout the year. We continue to explore new ways to engage a broad range of stakeholders to better understand the evolving reporting environment and determine how key non-financial indicators are impacting our financial performance. In 2017, we advanced our efforts to organize, validate and streamline data supporting certain non-financial indicators and expect to continue to do so in 2018. Read more about how we engage our various stakeholder groups. Corporate Responsibility Management This review was developed by a core group of Pfizer colleagues representing each business unit and other key functions. The core group is managed by our Corporate Affairs department, whose leader is a member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ian Read. Pfizer’s commitment to society is embedded in our business strategy and vision, and our commercial teams and functional groups share the commitment to integrate such values into our daily work. The Corporate Responsibility team sets the strategic direction for meeting our commitment to society and supports the integration and implementation of programs and non-financial reporting throughout the company. We are actively engaged in a dialogue with socially responsible and mainstream investors around their growing interest in environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and the impact on financial results. Today, we strive to have these principles permeate Pfizer at every level – including our Board of Directors – which maintains oversight for these issues through the Corporate Governance Committee. The Committee maintains an informed status on our corporate social responsibility, sustainability and philanthropic efforts and progress. Improving Our Access to Medicines Offerings Every two years, the Access to Medicine Index (ATMi) analyzes the top 20 research-based pharmaceutical companies on how they make essential medicines, vaccines and diagnostics accessible in lowand middle-income countries. The Index ranks these companies according to their efforts and their impact in improving access, including capacity building, research and development, compliance and other variables. The ATMi was launched in 2008 by the Access to Medicine Foundation (AMF), a Holland-based international non-profit organization. In addition to the ATMi, the AMF has developed a suite of reports that examine the performance of pharmaceutical companies, for example in vaccines, oncology and antimicrobial resistance. Pfizer engages with stakeholders, from investors to policy-makers, on our performance in these rankings and efforts to improve access for communities around the world. 2017 Annual Review About this Review 149 The 2018 ATMi will analyze company behaviors using a framework of 69 indicators organized in seven Technical Areas. The framework’s four Strategic Pillars correspond to four aspects of behavior. Pfizer actively participates in the ATMi and will have updates on our next ranking in the 2018 Annual Review. Global Reporting Frameworks Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including reference to several existing, globally-recognized external frameworks. These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and the International Integrated Reporting Council. We relied on elements of each framework in developing this year’s Annual Review while formally adhering to none in its entirety. We included a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review as a tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information across Pfizer’s web-based resources. Pfizer also considers elements of other ESG indices and sustainability indicators – in particular, the ATMi and the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (also known as the Global Goals). Throughout this report, you will see the Global Goals icons alongside various efforts to highlight the work we are doing across Pfizer to meet these goals by 2030. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact – a document that asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the UN – we submit an annual communication to the UN on our progress made towards achieving the Global Goals. View the full progress update. Read more about our Corporate and Shareholder Information, including Forward-Looking Statements. 2017 Annual Review About this Review 150 CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Stock Listing The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange. Our stock is also traded on various U.S. regional stock exchanges. Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar Computershare Investor Services P.O. Box 505000 Louisville, KY 40233-5000 Telephone: 1-800-733-9393 Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 Internet: www.computershare.com/investor Shareholder Services and Programs Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar, Computershare, with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock transfer matters, and for information: • Computershare Investment Program –– Direct purchase of Pfizer stock –– Dividend Reinvestment –– Automatic monthly or bi-monthly investments • Book-entry share ownership • Direct deposit of dividends Pfizer Political Action Committee and Political Contributions To review our most recent political action committee and corporate political contributions reports, visit www.pfizer.com/pac. 2017 Annual Review Corporate and Shareholder Information 151 Patient Assistance Patients, customers and health care professionals who have questions about any of our products should call 1-800-438-1985. Patients in the U.S. who need help getting access to their Pfizer medicines should contact Pfizer RxPathways®. The program connects eligible patients to Pfizer and industry programs offering insurance support, co-pay assistance, medicines for free or at a savings and more. Pfizer RxPathways is a joint program of Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation™. To learn more about Pfizer RxPathways, visit www.PfizerRxPathways.com or call 1-844-989-PATH (7284). Additional Information You can find more information about Pfizer online: • Website: www.pfizer.com • Twitter: www.twitter.com/Pfizer • Facebook: www.facebook.com/Pfizer • LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/pfizer Unless otherwise noted herein, the trademarks, logos and service marks appearing in the Annual Review, whether appearing with the trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc. or its affiliates. Herceptin® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. Remicade® is a registered trademark of Janssen Biotech, Inc. Bavencio® is a registered trademarks of Merck KGaA. Xtandi® is a registered trademarks of Astellas Pharma Inc. Epogen® is a registered trademark of Amgen Inc. Procrit® is a registered trademark of Johnson & Johnson MabThera® is a registered trademark of Roche Rituxan® is a registered trademark of Biogen Idec Inc. and Genentech, Inc. Humira® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. Avastin® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. Neupogen® is a registered trademark of Amgen Inc. Neulasta® is a registered trademark of Amgen Inc. 2017 Annual Review Corporate and Shareholder Information 152 Forward-Looking Information This Annual Review includes forward-looking statements about, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of Pfizer’s product and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” as well as Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 8-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. These reports are available on our website at www.pfizer.com and on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) website at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Review speak only as of the original date of this Annual Review and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements, except as required by law or the rules and regulations of the SEC. 2017 Annual Review Corporate and Shareholder Information 153 GRI REFERENCE TABLE Global Reporting Frameworks Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including reference to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks. These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We have relied on elements of each framework in developing this year’s Annual Review while adhering to none in its entirety. We have included a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information across Pfizer’s web-based resources. We also take into account elements of other Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) indices and sustainability indicators, in particular the Access to Medicines Index and the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2017 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 154 GRI Alignment with Indicator Description Reference the SDGs* GRI 102: General Disclosures 2017 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Pfizer Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services CEO Letter 102-3 Location of headquarters New York, New York (U.S.) 102-4 Location of operations Delivering Value through our Global Businesses 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate and Shareholder Information 102-6 Markets served Delivering Value through our Global Businesses 102-7 Scale of the organization CEO Letter 102-9 Supply chain Manufacturing and Supply Chain Excellence Goal 9 & Goal 12 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Pfizer manages and reports on our risks and impacts in consideration of the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives Governance and Ethics 102-13 Membership of associations Lobbying and Political Contributions Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance and Ethics Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Governance and Ethics ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance and Ethics 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance FAQs 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Environment, Health and Safety Goal 3 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Stakeholder Engagement environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Board of Directors Goal 16 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 5, Goal 16 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting The Pfizer Board: Board Policies purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance Board Committees and Charters body 2017 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 155 GRI Alignment with Indicator Description Reference the SDGs* 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's Board Committees and Charters performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 environmental, and social impacts Board Committees and Charters 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and The Pfizer Board: Board Policies social topics Board Committees and Charters 102-32 Highest governance body's role in About this Review sustainability reporting Board Committees and Charters Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated About this Review financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic About this Review Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics About this Review 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting since 2016 report 102-50 Reporting period About this Review 102-51 Date of most recent report March 12, 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle We report on an annual basis. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Chris Gray, Senior Director, Corporate Responsibility report 102-55 GRI content index GRI Reference Table Material topics Economic GRI 103: Management Approach 2017 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its About this Review Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Product Stewardship components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Product Stewardship Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Performance distributed Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Individual Voices supported 2017 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 156 GRI Alignment with Indicator Description Reference the SDGs* 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Understanding the External Environment Goal 1, Goal 3, Goal 8, Goal 10 Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence Community Health Access to Medicines Anti-Infectives Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Ethics and Compliance Goal 12 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 corruption Environmental Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Goal 6 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Performance Goal 13 Environment, Health and Safety Environmental KPIs 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance Goal 13 Environment, Health and Safety Environmental KPIs Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance Goal 12 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Performance Goal 12 supply chain and actions taken Social Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Performance Goal 3, Goal 8 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Culture Goal 4, Goal 5, Goal 8 employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Culture Goal 8 transition assistance programs 2017 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 157 GRI Alignment with Indicator Description Reference the SDGs* Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Culture Goal 5, Goal 8, Goal 16 actions taken Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Human Rights Statement or procedures Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community Community Health Goal 3, Goal 4, Goal 5, engagement, impact assessments, and Goal 6, Goal 7, Goal 17 development programs Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Corporate and Shareholder Information Goal 16 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning How We Conduct Clinical Trials Goal 16 breaches of customer privacy and losses of Environment, Health and Safety customer data * Based on ‘SDG Compass: Linking the SDGs and GRI’, as available on the GRI website’s resource library. Click here to view. 2017 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 158
