CSR REPORT ESG 2016 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report Scope of This Report This report primarily brings together in one compilation our initiatives conSumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (comprised of Sumitomo tributing to the development of a sustainable society based on the concept Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, of “Creating Shared Value” (CSV), and those aimed at enabling the long-term Limited, and other group companies) growth of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (the “Group”). Our CSV taxonomy parallels conceptually in many ways ESG (environment, social, and corTarget Readers porate governance) categories that long-term investors follow. Moreover, the All stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and Group has identiﬁed and ranked ESG-related themes with strong linkages to investors, employees, business partners, local communities, mediumand long-term corporate value creation in its materiality process (i.e., NPOs, governments, international institutions, etc. process for identifying priority issues). In the report, high-priority ESG themes are given greater emphasis and prominence. Period Covered by This Report The report is organized around six sustainability policies (basic policy on the October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016 social responsibility of the Group). Themes introduced in Sustainability Policy 1 *This report also includes the most recent information on activities before fiscal year 2015 as well as after October 2016. have also been published in four feature booklets on Climate Change, Natural Capital, Responsible Investment, and Environmentally Friendly Property as well as a digest report for seniors (not available in English). Reference Guidelines The report references G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) *There is a questionnaire at the end of this report so readers can share their forthright opinions with us “G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” concerning this report and the Group’s CSR activities. Please feel free to use this questionnaire to inform *For tables comparing GRI guidelines and information in our CSR us of your opinions and impressions. report, please refer to the section from page 141. In response to reader needs, our CSR report is available in three styles. Digest Full report Feature report for booklets Seniors Our website carries extensive We issue a regular report Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group is information on the CSR activities on social contribution activities working for biodiversity that Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (“With You” activities). conservation, including does not cover in this report. protection of rare species. Specifically, the website provides more The quarterly journal “SuMi TRUST With detailed information on our initiatives related You” reports on the “With You” social conto issues such as successful aging and suptribution activities of SuMi TRUST Bank (four port for the environment and living creatures. issues per year). Cover photo: A fledging Oriental Scops Owl (Otus scops Japonicus) The classification of this Oriental Scops Owl differs by season and region, and in regions across Japan it rangCSR in Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group es from critically endangered + endangered (CR + EN) to vulnerable (VU) and least concern (LC). http://smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Creating Shared Value through CSR Activities “Creating Shared Value” (CSV) is the concept of companies creating social value by addressing society’s needs and chalCreation of lenges while simultaneously creating their own economic value. Shared Value Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s (the “Group”) pursuit of PRI UNEP FI Identifying Materiality CSV is based on its Management Principles (“Mission”), Ideal Model (“Vision”), and Codes of Conduct (“Values”), as well Sustainability Policy as its Sustainability Policy—basic policy on the social responPrinciples for United sibility of the Group. These policies identify our approach to Nations Financial Action creating economic value and social value. for the 21st Global Century Mission, Vision, Values Compact Moreover, as a part of our process for realizing CSV, we (Dedication and Development) S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . identiﬁed materiality for our Group based on the perspectives of long-term investors and external experts we interviewed, and we are working to raise awareness and understanding Process of Creating Shared Value within the Group through internal engagement methods. Furthermore, the Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a global policy framework for corporate sustainability, and the “Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century),” a set of voluntary guidelines established by Japan’s major ﬁnancial institutions. The Group aims to create shared value while respecting these principles and guidelines, including the above two, related to social responsibility. Management Principles (“Mission”) (I) Swiftly provide comprehensive solutions to our clients by fully utilizing the signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive capabilities. (II) Adhere to the principles of sound management based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of ﬁduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society. 001 (III) Strive to fulﬁll all shareholder expectations by creating distinct values through fusing the various functions featuring the trust bank group. (IV) Offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and where employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulﬁlling their missions. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Ideal Model (“Vision”) —Towards “The Trust Bank”— Based on the ﬁduciary spirit and with signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new business model, combining its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses, and will move onto the global stage as a leading trust bank group which boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Codes of Conduct (“Value”) In order to pursue the Management Principles of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, the executives and employees commit themselves to comply with the six Codes of Conduct described below. Completely Client-oriented—Truthfulness and Loyalty We will adhere to the highest degree of “Truthfulness and Loyalty” as well as credibility and sureness, and will carry out all our responsibilities for client satisfaction and comfort as our top priority. Contribution to Society—Dedication and Development We will remain dedicated in all our efforts, with “Frontier Spirit,” and continue to contribute to society. Realization of Organizational Capability—Trust and Creativity We will realize our organizational capabilities with full of mutual trust and creativity through improvement by mutual learning and continuous personal transformation of various people who share the enthusiasm for trust. Establishment of Individuality—Self-help and Self-discipline With a spirit of self-help and self-discipline as well as a sense of ownership, we will carry out our responsibilities. Strict Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations We will strictly comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and will ensure that all our corporate activities meet the highest standards of social norms. Resolute Stance against Antisocial Forces We will continue to take a resolute stance against antisocial forces, which may threaten public order and the security of civil society. 1 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Contribute to Solving Social Basic Policy and Environmental Problems through Business on Social 008 Responsibility (Sustainability Policy) 2 Serve Clients with Sincerity S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . At Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, based on our Management Principles (“Mission”), our Ideal 061 Model (“Vision”) and our Codes of Conduct 3 (“Value”), we respect dialogue with all stakeholders, such as clients, shareholders, investors, employees, business partners, local communities, Earn the Trust of Society NPOs, government authorities and international institutions, and play an active role in building a sustainable society. 073 4 002 Address Environmental Issues 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 101 5 Respect the Individual 107 6 Participate in and Contribute to the Community 121 004 Management Commitment 006 Materiality Management for Creating Shared Value at SuMi TRUST Group Sustainability Policy 1 009 Addressing Climate Change Using Our Financial Capabilities 019 Natural Capital-related Initiatives Using Our Financial Capabilities We aim to enhance our earnings by devel026 Addressing the Issues of a Super-Aging Society by Using Our Finanoping and marketing products and services cial Functions that help address social and environmental 035 Various Solutions Using Trust Functions 042 ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Asset Management Businesses problems. 051 ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Real Estate Businesses Sustainability Policy 2 062 Initiatives to Earn the Trust of Clients 062 Initiatives regarding Fiduciary Duty A basic premise of corporate activities is 065 Client Protection Management obtaining the trust of customers. We work to S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 068 Efforts to Enhance Customer Satisfaction improve client protection and customer sat072 Delivery of Reliable Financial Products and Services isfaction and ensure product reliability. Sustainability Policy 3 074 Corporate Governance 085 Compliance and Conducting Business Activities Fairly We are bolstering the foundations of cor090 Risk Management porate value creation such as corporate 096 Environmental and Social Considerations in Project Finance governance, CSR, compliance, and risk man099 CSR Procurement agement. (Procurement that Gives Consideration to the Environment and Society) Sustainability Policy 4 102 Environmental Burden Reduction Measures 003 We are working to reduce our environmental burden with the aim of building a circular society where nature co-exists with human 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t communities. Sustainability Policy 5 108 SuMi TRUST Group’s Human Resources Strategy 109 Enhancing Human Capital to increase Corporate Value We value people that form communities. We 116 Initiatives regarding Human Rights create workplace environments that enable people to achieve peak form in putting their capabilities to use. Sustainability Policy 6 123 Initiatives to Promote “With You” Activities 126 Promoting Activities Fostering Employee Participation We believe sound local communities underpin 127 Our Activities Supporting National Trusts a healthy client base. We contribute and par128 Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Projects ticipate in the communities where we do busi130 Supporting Education for Children through ISAK ness through our local “With You” activities. 132 CSR Activities at Group Companies 138 Reconstruction Support for Regions Afflicted by Earthquakes 140 CSR of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group: oup: up Accession to International Guidelines nes for or Corporate Conduct, etc., and Related ate Activities A vit ities it tivit t d Acti cti ti ies i 141 GRI Content Index 149 Financial Highlights 150 Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui suii Trus itsu T Trust G o p russt Grou Group roup rou S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Kunitaro Kitamura Hitoshi Tsunekage President Chairman 004 Management Commitment Improving Functions that Illuminate 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Our Entire Operations, Attracting Public Interest via an ESG Filter Growing Interest in ESG Interest in ESG (environment, social, and corporate govThe way companies respond to ESG issues such as corpoernance) themes has increased recently. Principles for rate governance, increasingly diverse human resources, and Responsible Investment (PRI), supported by the United environmental risks has a direct bearing on their manageNations, aims to foster integration of ESG factors into the ment foundation resilience and thus the long-term growth long-term investment perspective institutional investors that companies naturally seek. With short-termism coming are increasingly urged to adopt. We think what underlies under sharp criticism, it seems to us the growing focus on the growing interest in ESG is a global trend of seeking ESG by both investors and companies is inevitable. more non-ﬁnancial disclosure and progress in capital market and corporate governance reforms enacted by governPromoting Materiality Management ments championing more constructive dialogue between Since ﬁscal year 2015, we have identiﬁed priority themes companies and institutional investors. (materiality) from the dual viewpoints of corporate value and the degree of impact on society. The priority themes in building a working environment where each employee we have identiﬁed do not merely become the Group’s ESG can enthusiastically do their jobs and in fostering a corpothemes. Through serious engagement in them, we believe rate culture premised on diverse working styles and supwe can create pathways for the Group’s long-term growth. port for employees balancing work with childcare or care From this standpoint, we have also analyzed the latest for elderly relatives. While expanding globally, we have ESG trends such as PRI activities and the feedback and also advanced initiatives to enable women to aim higher evaluations we received from ESG research ﬁrms in ﬁscal in their careers and promoted human rights awareness. In year 2016. On this basis, we have cast CSR departments in an effort to further strengthen such initiatives in ﬁscal year S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . the role of “in-house ESG investor” that initiates “internal 2016, we established the Diversity & Inclusion Promotion engagement” exercises where they engage in constructive Ofﬁce and took other steps to strengthen related systems. dialogue with departments responsible for matters relevant to high materiality themes. Climate change issues are Aiming for Long-term Growth one theme of internal engagements where risks are identiNearly ﬁfteen years have passed since CSR gained a wide ﬁed from an operational perspective based on trends folfollowing among Japanese companies in 2003. There is lowing the Paris Agreement signed in December 2015 and now a consensus among Japanese companies that linking policies are devised for a near-term response. This theme CSR to their core businesses is the way forward but develwas also discussed at meetings of the Board of Directors in oping the expertise and knowhow in how to integrate CSR an effort to foster a shared understanding of related issues into the core practices of a business is not easy. From here at the management level. on, however, there are no long-term growth prospects for companies unless they can ﬁnd ways to expand in socially Themes Advanced in Fiscal Year 2016 sustainable ways. Keeping this ﬁrmly in mind, we see a In ﬁscal year 2016, “ﬁduciary duty” and “diversity & inclustrategic role for CSR as we look to improve functions that sion” were the themes relating to materiality where we illuminate our entire operations and attract public interest 005 strengthened our response, including revisions to systems. through the ﬁlter of ESG themes. As we continue to press Fiduciary duty means putting client interests ahead of ahead with CSR initiatives that open a way to long-term everything else in running our operations. Many in the growth prospects, we look forward to your warm and con2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t recent past have called on ﬁnancial institutions to be even tinued support and cooperation in these endeavors. more rigorous in how they fulﬁll their ﬁduciary duties. The Group regards a sincere commitment to providing prinDecember 2016 cipled customer service a part of the Code of Conduct that executives and employees must follow. In ﬁscal year 2016, we further advanced a number of initiatives aimed at bolstering rigorous adoption across all Group operations, devising Group policies on ﬁduciary duties and establishing the Fiduciary Duties Planning and Promotion Department. We believe ﬁduciary duty is an idea that goes to the heart of the trust business, and starting with the provision of products and services that serve the best interests of our clients, we seek to advance initiatives in unison Hitoshi Tsunekage, Chairman across the Group that improve customer satisfaction. In contrast, diversity & inclusion is a way of thinking that encourages people to recognize individuality and diversity in the workplace that has attracted more adherents in the past few years. One of our management strategies is to harness employee capabilities unlocked by this approach Kunitaro Kitamura, President to create added value. This notion is enshrined in the Group’s Management Principles (Mission) and Code of Conduct (Value). As an organization, we have made strides Materiality Management for Creating Shared Value at SuMi TRUST Group In an effort to engage seriously with the highest priority issues (materiality) we identified in fiscal year 2015, we have stepped up “creating shared value,” going from the rollout of department-level programs up to management-level initiatives. Specifically, we have initiated “internal engagement” exercises to integrate ESG issues into operations from a long-term investor perspective. In particular, S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . directors have put important ESG themes on the agenda for meetings of the Board of Directors and debated them from a broad-based, long-term perspective. Steps for Creating Shared Value Identifying Materiality and Implementing Internal Engagement Selecting Themes for Interviewing Internal and STEP 1 Identifying Materiality from a STEP 2 External Officers and Experts 006 Long-term Investor Perspective We emphasize the views of ESG investors who pursue We asked the ESG Risk Response Project Team (see page corporate value from a long-term perspective. Based on 93) and all the external directors and external corporate reporting guidelines such as GRI and SASB, we select auditors (“external ofﬁcers”) of SuMi TRUST Holdings 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t bank materiality themes emphasized by ESG research and SuMi TRUST Bank to score in points how much inﬂucompanies that provide information to investors. ence each theme identiﬁed in STEP 1 is likely to have on Taking into consideration case studies from the world’s the Group’s mediumand long-term corporate value. We most innovative ﬁnancial institutions, risks SuMi TRUST asked 18 external experts and external ofﬁcers to score in Holdings has always tracked, and ESG risks unique to points how much inﬂuence these themes are likely to have Japan, we selected 28 themes from which to identify on the Group’s stakeholders. We tabulated these scores materiality. and calculated the average score of each theme. Materiality Map Enables Shared Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Materiality Map STEP 3 Recognition of ESG Themes Themes Identified as at Management Level Highest Priority Degree of Group’s impact on society (via each theme) Highest • Corporate governance materiality zone • Risk management & resilience The average point scores for the themes from STEP • Protection of personal information & 2 are plotted out on the materiality map (scatter client data • Consideration of fair transaction diagram) showing the relationship between the ce an practices t “degree of impact of each theme on the Group’s or • Compliance p • Financial system stability mediumand long-term corporate value” (x-axis) Im • Customer satisfaction improvement and the “degree of the Group’s impact on society • Financial product reliability • Stakeholder dialogue (stakeholders) via each theme” (y-axis). The themes • Cyber attacks that fall into the highest materiality zone of the map • Transactions with anti-social forces • Human capital are designated the highest priority ESG issues at • Crime prevention the Executive Committee, and then reported to the • Factoring environmental and social Degree of impact (of each theme) on Group’s impacts into investments and loans Board of Directors. mediumand long-term corporate value we impact in lders dire Defining the Boundaries eho ctl tak y S Investments in and loans to (the scope of subjects affected by the Group’s activities) s) companies, etc. rs we impact lde dir The Group identiﬁes “boundaries” as below: ho keProject finance, propertye Sta ctly transactions, etc. (1) Companies belonging to the Group; (2) Suppliers, contractors providing services, equipment, or SuMi TRUST office supplies to the Group; and Holdings (3) Stakeholders we impact through our Group businesses: SuMi TRUST Group’s (a) Direct-impact businesses Boundaries (e.g. project finance, property transactions) S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . (b) Indirect-impact businesses (e.g. loans to and investments in companies) Suppliers, contractors What is “Internal Engagement”? CSR departments are cast into the role of “in-house ESG investor” that initiate constructive dialogue with departments responsible for matters relevant to high materiality themes. This “internal engagement” process is expected to lead to improvements in operations and information disclosure. STEP 4 Internal Engagement Exercises STEP 5 007 In fiscal year 2016, our internal engagement exercises focused on four themes, shown Initiatives for below, with high investor interest selected from among our high materiality themes. Increasing Corporate 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Theme 1: Corporate Governance Value in Long Term Department heading engagement: Corporate Administration Dept. The high materiality themes In view of the corporate governance reforms adopted in Japan, investor interest in identiﬁed are not only put into the governance themes of board composition and compensation for directors and practice through the internal ofﬁcers is exceptionally high. This department notiﬁed others of this strong interest and offered them information on how to strengthen their governance systems. engagement program but we regard them as “environmenTheme 2: Bolstering Human Capital and Corporate Value tal and social issues linked Department heading engagement: Human Resources Dept. to sustainability the Board of Reﬂecting human capital evaluations into investment decisions is a trend that is gainDirectors ought to address,” ing adherents in Japan and overseas. This department notiﬁed others of the growing as prescribed in Article 3-4 calls for disclosure on the connection between personnel policies and corporate value of the Group’s Basic Policy and initiated discussions on how to shed light on the connection between bolstering on Corporate Governance. human capital in the Group and increasing our corporate value. At meetings of the Board of Directors, directors held wideTheme 3: Preventing Bribery and Corruption Overseas ranging discussions on high Department heading engagement: Compliance Dept. materiality themes across their Starting with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), nations around the world multiple aspects and deterare stiffening regulation against corruption and bribery overseas. This department mined the direction the Group notiﬁed others about growing investor interest in this trend and initiated discussions on should take. what in our Group’s anti-corruption, anti-bribery initiatives should be double-checked. Theme 4: Climate Change Items Implemented Department heading engagement: Wholesale Business Planning Dept. In ﬁscal year 2016, the Board In the wake of the adoption of the Paris Agreement on climate change, this departof Directors discussed highment notiﬁed others about the swift rise to prominence of climate change risk among urgency ESG topics such as international ﬁnancial authorities, ﬁnancial institutions, and institutional investors and climate change problems initiated discussions on how our businesses would be affected. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 1 Contribute to Solving Social and Environmental Problems through Business S u m i t om o Mi tsu t su i Tru Tr u s t H o l di d i ngs n g s , In Inc. • We work to solve social and environmental problems from a global perspective through our core businesses. • We integrate the diverse functions that are unique to a trust bank group and develop new business models and innovative products and services to help solve social and environmental problems. 008 2 0 16 1 6 C S R Re po port Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Addressing Climate Change Using Our Financial 009 Capabilities 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Coming into effect in November 2016, the Paris Agreement establishes an international framework for addressing climate change. It aims to keep global average temperature rise to well below 2ºC above pre-industrial levels ECO TrustutioN: and pursue efforts to limit the increase to The Group has coined the word “Eco1.5ºC in a bid to achieve a net-zero emissions Trustution” to represent its environmental financial business based on the society in the second half of this century. concept of providing solutions to ecological issues through the use of our trust The Group devised action guidelines on function. We will continue to develop mitigating climate change with the aim of and provide solution-based financial instruments and services. building a renewable society. “Eco-Trustution” is the concept underlying the financial solution businesses with high value added we are developing that harnesses our skills and trust bank functions. We regard climate change problems as the most important issue to be address through “Eco-Trustution.” Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Climate Change Impacts on Economics and Finance It is widely recognized that among the many social and Top Ten Global Risks Ranked by Potential Impact environmental risks facing the world, climate change will have very substantial impacts on economics and finance. Failure of climate-change mitigation and adaption The response to climate change thus calls for precision. Weapons of mass destruction Water Crises Impact Large-scale Annual Meeting of World Economic Forum in Davos Energy price shock involuntary migration Of the global risks experts assessed, the risk with the greatBiodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse est potential impact in the 2016 report was found to be a Fiscal crises failure of climate-change mitigation and adaption. Experts Spread of infectious diseases Asset bubble Profound social instability surveyed regarded it as having greater potential damage than weapons of mass destruction, water crises, large-scale Likelihood involuntary migration, and severe energy price shock. Source: World Economic Forum’s “The Global Risks Report 2016 11th Edition” Financial Stability Board Establishes Task S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Physical risks: Risks arising from abnormal events such as ﬂoods, Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures typhoons and droughts. Along with direct impacts, this category At the request of G20 ﬁnance ministers and central bank govencompasses indirect impacts such as agricultural damage and ernors, the Financial Stability Board established the Task Force supply chain disruptions. on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), an industryLiability risks: Risks arising from claimants seeking damages led advisory body. Advancing ﬁnancial disclosure guidelines from parties for creating the conditions driving climate change relating to climate change, TCFD calls on the ﬁnancial sector or for erroneous response to climate change; this includes the to go beyond tracking the GHG emissions from its own busirisk of claims for inadequate disclosure or use of information ness activities. Financial institutions will need to conduct multirelating to climate change. faceted monitoring of emissions at investee and borrower Transition risks: Financial institutions and corporations may well companies and projects and call for climate-related informabe exposed to asset re-pricing risk due to technological advances tion disclosure and adoption of measures by investee and boror policy changes in the transition to a net-zero-emissions society. rower companies and projects to avert and mitigate risks. 010 SuMi TRUST Group Recognizes Climate Change as a High Priority The SuMi TRUST Group recognizes that responding to cliimpacts arising from companies and projects in which mate change issues is important for building a sustainable we are investors or lenders is important. We also recogsociety, and its solutions businesses are geared to addressnize the importance of reducing CO2 emissions from the 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t ing climate change issues. Group’s business activities. It is our belief that helping to address climate change Important Issues concerning Climate Change (Materiality) issues by harnessing our trust function is a matter of critical From a risk standpoint, the Group recognizes as a ﬁnanimportance that will funnel more business opportunities to cial institution that reducing the risk of climate change the Group. • Taking into account how borrowers and investees impact society and the environment The Group’s climate • Pursuit of business opportunities with environmental and social themes change-related materi• Climate changes (physical impacts) ality issues • Reducing the Group’s environment burden Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change 1. Implementation of Measures and Support to Help Mitigate 3. Collaboration with Stakeholders Climate Change We engage in dialogue and cooperation with our stakeholders In addition to actively taking measures to reduce greenhouse as we work to mitigate climate change. gas emissions in our own business operations, we are making 4. Education and Training efforts, as a corporate citizen, to support activities that mitigate We will ensure that these guidelines are fully implemented at and adapt to climate change. group companies, and will actively conduct education and train2. Provision of Products and Services ing to mitigate climate change. We are working on developing and providing products and 5. Information Disclosure services that help mitigate climate change. Our ﬁnancial funcWe will actively disclose information related to our efforts to tions are being leveraged to promote energy conservation and mitigate climate change. encourage the use of renewable energy. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Risks and Opportunities relating to Climate Change In the area of climate change, financial institutions face not latter are larger. Moreover, an important element for finanonly direct impacts arising from their own business activicial institutions in evaluating corporate growth strategies ties but also indirect impacts arising from investee and is factoring in the transition to a net-zero society into their borrower companies and projects, and exposures from the business models. Risks Relating to Climate Change Risk categories* Risk concepts Attributes of risk linked to climate • Risk that business models and corporate strategies may be affected as the regulatory response is ramped up to reach the goal of staying below 2ºC • Financial institutions face high • Risk that carbon budgeting may affect economies expectations they will seek to Risk arising from avert or mitigate risks from in• Growing risk ﬁnancial institutions will call for greater disclosure of climate-related information regulation from their investee and borrower companies direct impacts arising from the • Risk there will be pressure for companies to factor in climate issues when procuring ﬁnance and activities of investee or borrower services companies or projects S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . • Climate-related risk extends to • Risk that climate change will affect land usage and natural resource procurement impacts on the whole supply Risk arising from • Risk that natural disaster damages social infrastructure and Group assets and puts business conchain, so risk management in tinuity at risk the upstream supply chains of physical impacts investee and borrower compa• Risk that progression in global warming increases the likelihood of heat stroke and pandemics nies will be important • Establishing quantitative risk • Risk of stricter regulation and technological advances disrupting industries and companies and assessment measures will be Other risks impairing the value of the Group’s loan assets and stockholdings important • Reputational risk that climate change-related initiatives are deemed inadequate Business Opportunities relating to Climate Change Opportunity categories* Opportunity concepts Attributes of opportunities linked to climate Opportunities • There may be more opportunities to offer advisory services and finance to projects and companies that are helping to slow or mitigate climate change • Climate-related businesses arising from • Changeover to new social systems on spread of renewable energy may open up profitable promoting a switch in social regulation opportunities over the medium and long term systems in areas such as energy and transportation may become Opportunities the economic mainstream arising from • There may be more opportunities to offer finance for infrastructure and technological • A s o c i a l i n f r a s t r u c t u r e development that enhances adaptive capacity to climate change changeover in the longer term 011 physical impacts on the spread of renewable energy may translate into • Positive social evaluation as a financial institution helping to address climate change may an increase in stable profit translate into more business opportunities opportunities for the Group over Other opportunities • Greater social awareness of climate change may support sales of the Group’s ﬁnancial products the longer term 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t that factor in environmental considerations *Framework is based on Carbon Disclosure Project categories. Climate Change Risk Management for Investments and Loans Investments and loans funding companies and projects are and the use of certiﬁcation systems. We also propose iniexposed directly and indirectly to climate change, so clitiatives aimed at increasing the corporate value of investee mate change is intimately linked to social issues such as companies (for details, see page 46). water and food problems and human rights. In the future, the Group’s assets may face impairment risks, so it is Climate Change Risk Management for Loans increasingly important we develop a clear grasp of these (Equator Principles) risks and manage them as an ESG risk response measure. SuMi TRUST Bank is aware that ﬁnancing large-scale projects such as mine development, oil and gas development, Climate Change Risk Management for power plants, petrochemical plants and infrastructure develInvesting (ESG investing) opment may indirectly have an adverse effect on climate SuMi TRUST Bank is a signatory to the Principles for change. We also believe it is the responsibility of trustworthy Responsible Investment (PRI), which was jointly estabﬁnancial institutions to avert or mitigate risks of deterioration lished by the UN Global Compact and the United Nations in the value of loan receivables due to project suspensions Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI). originating in environmental or social problems. These principles require institutional investors such as penSince February 2016, SuMi TRUST Bank has integrated sion funds and asset managers to take ESG factors into use of the Equator Principles, guidelines for private-sector account when making investment decisions, including ﬁnancial institutions, into its decision-making processes for impacts on environmental (E) and social (S) considerations. loans in project ﬁnance and related risks for risk manageThrough engagement with investee companies, SuMi ment purposes. In the Equator Principles process, climate TRUST Bank promotes pro-active information disclosure of change is one of the most important themes (for details, initiatives and policies concerning climate change, speciﬁc see page 96). actions to avert and mitigate impacts from climate change, Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Spread and Growth of Renewable Energy Our Renewable Energy Initiatives SuMi TRUST Group is working to develop financial prodgeneration to large-scale generation exceeding 100MW. ucts that facilitate the spread and growth of diverse forms The Group provides finance in forms that match a wide of renewable energy. These include schemes for business variety of funding needs from leases to project finance and scales that range from micro scales such as micro-hydro renewable energy funds. Graph (include projects in the planning stage and under construction) Capacity (kW) 1GW=106 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Wind 105 Mega-solar generation PV* sites Renewable Renewable energy funds energy funds Project Woody Hydro 104 Project ﬁnance biomass Waste-togeneration ﬁnance energy Corporate generation 3 lease-type 1MW=10 PV Rooftop lease PV Hot spring binary cycle 102 Micro-hydro generation PV for SMEs* Biomass gas generation 101 PV for households 1 012 Solar power Wind power Biomass Hydro power Other *SMEs: small and medium-sized enterprises; PV: photovoltaic 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Renewable Energy Project Finance We are promoting the adoption of renewable energy such output of 7,637GWh. as wind and solar power through project finance. It has been widely remarked that one factor that In renewable energy projects, both offshore and onshore enabled international ratiﬁcation of the epoch-making wind power generation are increasingly large-scale enterParis Agreement was recognition of renewable energy’s prises. In Japan, mega-solar PV sites grew further from economic rationality. The emission reduction plans of the level of the previous ﬁscal year. The total potential both developed and developing nations rely on adopting generation capacity of these projects where SuMi TRUST renewable energy sources, so we believe expectations for Bank is a ﬁnancier stands at 4,154MW with annual power project ﬁnance to play a role will grow from here. Investment Record in Japan and Overseas United Financing for 48 sites in Japan, Kingdom Netherlands ten sites overseas Germany Wind power Hydro power Canada Solar power Biomass United States Other Australia Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Mega-solar in Japan Solar panels with total potential generation capacity of about 19MW were installed at a former golf course that was closed and sold after the Great East Japan Earthquake, opening the way for conversion of the site into a mega-solar Miyagi PV farm. SuMi TRUST Bank arranged project ﬁnance in the form of a syndicated loan for buildSendai ing on the site. With estimated annual output of 65,000MWh, the project uses the feed-in-tariff (FIT) system to wholesale electricity at a ﬁxed price to the electricity supply system. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Offshore Wind Farm Overseas In Europe, where shallow expanses of continental shelf extend far from the coastline, projects to build large-scale offshore wind power farms are increasing. At a site about 80 kilometers off the Dutch coast at water depth of about 30-35 meters is one of the world’s largest offshore wind Amsterdam power farms with about 150 large-scale turbines Netherlands that have total potential capacity of 4MW each. In addition to generating and wholesaling electricity, the project encompasses the operation of submarine transmission cables. 013 Renewable Energy Funds Renewable energy funds have been set up exclusively total investment supplied to these projects, the aggregate 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t for the purpose of investing in and operating large-scale investment of our funds stands at 4.15 billion yen. renewable energy projects. These projects, with annual power output of 136GWh, As of September 2016, our funds have become investors in reduced CO2 emissions by more than 73,000 metric tons, multiple large-scale solar power generation projects with an amount equivalent to the emissions of 21,000 ordinary total potential capacity of 113MW. Of the 51.9 billion yen in households in Japan. *For calculating CO2 emissions, we referenced the electricity utility emission coefﬁcient (ﬁscal 2014) for offtakers of each project, and for the CO2 emissions of an ordinary household, we referenced the per-household CO2 emissions in the Ministry of the Environment’s national greenhouse gas inventory (ﬁscal 2014). Fund Schemes Generation project PJ 1 N-REIF No. 1 Investment Nonrecourse loans Limited Partnership Investment from Investment from an anonymous an anonymous partnership* (1) partnership (1) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited liability Limited Investment from an anonymous Generation project PJ 2 partnership (2) Nonrecourse loans Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Investment from an anonymous Investment Co., Ltd. Investment from partnership (3) Unlimited liability an anonymous ITOCHU ENEX Co., Ltd. partnership (2) *Anonymous partnerships are called “tokumeikumiai” in Japanese. • We contribute by providing equity-like funding for the spread of renewable energy projects. • We are expanding assets under management in our funds and building up an investment track record in solar power, and plan to broaden the scope of our renewable energy investments to include biomass, wind, and other sources. • We are working to develop investment products for individuals and institutional investors and pension funds that seek stable income gains. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Mega-Solar Projects Using Leases Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance supports financhas supported the installation of 40.4MW of total potential ing for mega-solar facilities. capacity in 23 projects since the FIT system’s introduction, Using leases to fund solar facility installations keeps the which attracted entry into this ﬁeld from an array of compaupfront investment costs for mega-solar PV project connies from startups to those in related sectors such as electric struction at zero, and projects can earn stable income by power, construction, and energy that sought to diversify. using the feed-in-tariff (FIT) system to wholesale at a ﬁxed Changes to the FIT system that factor in the unique propprice the electricity it generates to the power supply grid. erties of mega-solar projects such as the introduction of Leases are thus an effective method of ﬁnancing for megapurchase price auctions and the addition of operation and solar projects that ensures business plan soundness. maintenance criteria for certiﬁcation has increased the busiCompared with other renewable energy sources, solar ness reliability of mega-solar power providers. Combined power generation has three advantages: 1) procedures for with advances in solar technologies and the establishment assessment etc. are straightforward and simple, 2) the conof new forms of ﬁnancing, investors are expected to develop struction phase is relatively short, and 3) there are estabmore mega-solar projects as businesses with stable, longlished technologies that were originated and developed term prospects. We are working together with panel manuS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . domestically. As a result, mega-solar projects have been facturers, engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) sited and built in Japan since the FIT system came into vendors and others to provide total support to investors effect. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Co., Ltd. entering the solar power generation ﬁeld. • Pursue energy management linked to electric vehicles Future and storage batteries pathways for • Realize net-zero energy buildings (ZEBs), net-zero solar power energy house (ZEH), and virtual power plants (VPP) • Expand local production-consumption models and energy self-sufﬁciency • Reduce power generation costs further via technological development • Tap into new funding supplies via infrastructure investment funds 014 Micro-Power Generation in Water Supply Systems 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance supports the tap into these wasted sources of energy as a renewable adoption of power generation systems that tap into latent energy source that can generate electricity. energy sources in water supply systems across Japan. We In the past, the introduction of new power generation help promote execution of global warming mitigation systems that tap into such sources was impeded by the plans in concert with regional public authorities. need to reduce device costs, achieve higher efﬁciencies, In Japan’s water supply systems, an increasing amount and realize more compact sizes but these obstacles have of energy is released without being harnessed such as been resolved. We support introducing such systems with untapped use of vertical drop in gravity-ﬂow supply pipes lease ﬁnance and the use of leasing agreements for water and the release of surplus pressure in pumped supply pipes supply systems with local authorities. via pressure-reducing valves. The Group promotes ways to Specific properties of micro-power generation in water supply systems Specific properties of leases • Keep costs low via use of standardized parts, general-use pumps and low-cost magnets • Projects can be launched with no upfront investment costs • Develop water turbines that efﬁciently generate power in response to water • Power provider is responsible for constructing the power generation system and its ﬂow velocities operation and maintenance (O&M) • Integrate power generation and water supply control systems, install water turbines in a • Lease can earn stable revenues vertical conﬁguration on top of pipes to realize a much more compact footprint Newly developed micro-power generation Schematic diagram Purchases electricity at ﬁxed system for water supply systems Invests price Generation Electric utility Permanent magnet Controller with system makers synchronous integrated power Power provider generator generator (maker subsidiary) Receives Provides lease contracts project order Pump-reversing Pays facility use fee, ¥ Pays water ﬂow fee Project water turbine Sumitomo Mitsui contractor, O&M Trust Panasonic provider Water pipes Finance Public water authority Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Small and Mid-sized Power Generation in Rivers Japan’s river systems have the potential to generate the Environment survey. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic 14GW of electricity through the installation of small or Finance is helping to revitalize regional communities mid-sized generators and its agricultural water supply through joint initiatives with regional banks that aim to use channels 300MW, according to the results of a Ministry of each region’s untapped hydropower potential. Schematic diagram of collaboration with regional banks Buys power Hydropower generator for steep-slope rivers via FIT system Power provider River Electric utility Provides Sumitomo lease Water conduit pipe Parts and machinery Mitsui Trust water turbine, Panasonic generator, Generator Accepts O&M machine gates Finance consignment O&M provider Provides Civil engineering loan work Regional bank S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . etc. Water discharge port Project contractor Design firm Hydropower generation could be a source of renewable energy for Japan, which is blessed with many high-ﬂow, steepslope rivers. In cases where the feed-in-tariff (FIT) system is Small and mid-sized hydropower potential, actual adoption capacity used, the maximum aggregate potential from installing small Potential and mid-sized hydropower generators is estimated at 4.3GW. Breakdown by category aggregate output Maximum aggregate River systems 14GW Small and mid-sized power generators approved for instal14.3GW potential in Japan*1 Agricultural supply channels 300MW lation since the FIT system’s introduction have total output of Potential with FIT 1.06〜4.3GW River systems 900M〜4.06GW 780MW, and of those, the ones in use have 190MW, indicatsystem*1 Agricultural supply channels 160〜240MW Approved for installation ing there is still scope for new installations. 780MW It is possible to install hydropower generators that factor post-FIT adoption*2 Installations post-FIT 190MW in the environment such as run-of-the-river small and midadoption*2 sized hydropower generators that use the shape of rivers or *1 Ministry of the Environment’s fiscal 2010 survey report on the adoption potential for existing agricultural water supply channels and do not require 015 renewable energy *2 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy’s website (accessed in June 2016) building large dams. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Biomass Gas Generation We support adoption of biomass facilities that convert and used as fuel to generate electricity. Under the Food food waste and other organic waste into biogas for elecRecycling Law, the recovery of heat from food waste is tricity generation. recognized as a form of recycling provided certain condiAt a biomass power generator, organic waste—such as tions are met, and the power generated can be resold at food waste, livestock urine and manure, and organic a ﬁxed price using the FIT system. This system’s value is sludge from sewage and wastewater—is fermented in improving overall energy efﬁciency through the effecand combustible gases, mainly methane, are extracted tive use of both electricity and heat. • Curtails volume of waste produced, reduces waste disposal costs • Food waste, food residues Wastes • Livestock urine and manure • Earns income from reselling electricity via the FIT system Merits eligible for • Organic sludge, etc. from • Curtails putrid odors due to fermentation, reduces release of bad smells to nearby areas usage sewage and wastewater • Byproducts like post-fermentation, digested slurry can be recycled as a liquid fertilizer Flow diagram of a Biomass Gas Generation System Methane fermentation tank Receiving tank (right) (built-in gas holding tank) Resell electricity Desulfurizing units Power generator Digestive fluids tank Wastewater (left) processing facilities (in front, below ground) Solid and liquid Concentrated sludge, liquid fertilizers fertilizer storage Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Support for Energy Efficiency Renovation Loans for Smart Houses We support remodeling homes into “smart houses” the spread and adoption of solar power generation by through our home renovation loans. Homes are becomhouseholds with its solar loans. Our solar loan portfolio as ing places where families wisely use energy they generate. of September 2016 stood at 64.5 billion yen. Through our A smart house can efﬁciently generate and store energy by partnerships with equipment vendors and installers, we combining solar PV panels, a storage battery unit, and a support remodeling homes into “smart houses” with our household fuel cell. Functions enabling dwellers to control renovation loans. electricity consumption to match their lifestyle and weather conditions have improved. With the liberalization of retail sales of electricity and Equipment for Upgrading to a Sma Smart m rt House S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . gas to households in Japan, many hope energy and telecommunication sector companies will partner to offer bundled services that combine telecom, broadcast TV etc. with electricity. Moreover, electric vehicle batteries may increasingly be used to A solar PV module HEMS monitor store energy, and there has been progress in developing services that integrate the functions of housing, home appliances, and vehicles. Since a system for purchasing surplus electricity from solar panels was established, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust A lithium-ion storage Household fuel cells Electric vehicles, Panasonic Finance has contributed to A smart house battery unit (Ene-farm home fuel cell) EV chargers 016 Energy Management Systems Using Leases: Example We offer comprehensive support from the planning and installation stages through to energy management services. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 1. Installation of high-efficiency refrigerators and refrigerator showcases Specific 2. Installation of non-freon equipment investment ideas 3. Switch to LED lighting 4. Adoption of integrated control systems Post1. Electricity consumption lowered by about 2.5GWh per year (25% cut) installation 2. Electricity bill lowered by about 42 million yen per year savings 3. Maintenance cost lowered by about 5.4 million yen per year 1. A one-stop service menu from energy-saving consulting, equipment investment Key points planning, and financing to post-installation energy management services in our 2. Use of subsidies lightens investment costs proposals Example: A store that remodeled by 3. Use of leases reshapes payment stream: zero upfront investment to purchase installing high-efficiency refrigerators, equipment with costs paid over time in the form of leveled-out payments refrigerator showcases, and LED lighting Energy-Saving Consulting: Clients Energy Management Services Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Propose the most appropriate menu of options (Total management includes fund raising) Open platform of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Various energy-saving menu options Visualize energy ICT automatic Energy-saving Remote monitoring, operational improvements, energy-saving renovations, Maintenance improved heat source efﬁciency, lighting, air conditioning etc. consumption controls inspections Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Manufacturers, engineering Energy management services Energy-saving consulting services Panasonic Finance firms, construction firms Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 One-Stop Services for Energy-Saving Investment: Subsidy-Eligible Leases We offer one-stop services that support all processes from planning for energy-saving investments to asset operation. • Our one-stop service menu ranges from energy-saving assessments, examinations to identify energy-saving measures, equipment selection, subsidy applications, and securing ﬁnancing to maintenance services. • Using leases enables installation of energy-saving equipment without upfront investment cost. • Securing subsidies lowers upfront investment costs, enabling recipients to beneﬁt even more from energy savings and cost reductions. • We offer tailored proposals through partnerships with manufacturers and installers. Flow Chart Mapping Out the Use of Subsidies National government/local public authority Main subsidy systems 1 Joint application 5 Collection of for subsidies transferred subsidy • Subsidy support for rationalizing energy use at SMEs • Zero net energy building (ZEB) project: Subsidies to promote adoption of innovative energy-saving technologies in S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Sumitomo Mitsui Client Trust Panasonic housing and buildings 2 Lease Finance contract • Subsidies for facilities that sharply cut CO2 emissions via efficient execution of advanced countermeasures (ASSET 4 Payment for 3 Equipment sale Select vendor project) equipment contract • Promotion of energy-saving measures for existing buildings Vendor A Vendor B Vendor C *1 Certain conditions must be met to be eligible to apply for subsidies Equipment vendors *2 Subsidy systems may change Stages in the Subsidy Application Process Energy-saving Examination of Board of Directors, Examination of assessment optimal energyetc. decide on Preparations to Subsidy energy-saving Energy-data saving secondary energy-saving apply for subsidies application primary proposal provision proposal investment 1 month to 2 weeks before application 6-12 months before application 3-6 months before application 1-3 months before application 1 month before application acceptance announcement acceptance announcement acceptance announcement acceptance announcement acceptance announcement (length of acceptance period) 017 Our Response to New Regulations on Refrigerants 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t In October 2016, an international coalition of nations A non-freon freezer agreed to amend the Montreal Protocol to regulate prounit and a non-freon freezer showcase duction volume of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), an alternative to ozone-destroying Freon*, in a series of steps, announcing their decision at the 28th meeting of the parties to the protocol. Together with the Paris Agreement, this accord represents a major step forward in the international effort to address climate change. In the wake of the amended Montreal Protocol, Japan has amended domestic laws to regulate HFC producThe Group’s leases focus on equipment using nontion and strengthen usage regulations. The major equipfreon alternatives as refrigerants, so we are contributing ment categories subject to the stricter regulations are to the adoption and spread of non-freon equipment. air conditioners, refrigerators, and freezers. Switching Japan Machinery Leasing and Sales Co., Ltd., a Group to equipment that uses non-freon or natural alternative member, works to safely retrieve and dispose of leased, refrigerants is now an urgent priority. Freon-using equipment after the lease has expired. *Freon alternatives have been used in place of specified Freon, which has been identified as an ozone layer destroyer. HFCs do not deplete the ozone layer but they have a large greenhouse gas effect and so have high global warming potential. Kigali Amendment to Montreal Protocol to Regulate Freon Alternatives Developed nations Group 1 developing nations*1 Group 2 developing nations*2 Base year 2011 — 2013 2020 — 2022 2024 — 2026 Baseline value Avg. HFC volume in each year + 15% of Avg. HFC volume in each year + 65% of Avg. HFC volume in each year + 65% of (CO2 equivalence) HCFC*3 baseline value HCFC*3 baseline value HCFC*3 baseline value Launch year for regulation 2019 2024 2028 Target year 2036 2045 2047 Target reduction 85% 80% 85% *1 Group 1 developing nations are still developing and do not belong to Group 2 *2 Group 2 developing nations are India, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, and Gulf nations *3 HCFC: Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbons Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Other Contributions to Climate Change Mitigation Farming systems that use renewable natural resources Industrial-use storage batteries We support energy-efﬁcient farming that uses natural Storage batteries can be used for many purposes forms of energy such as sunlight, water, and wind to such as peak shifting, leveling out load shifts, a power control the environment inside greenhouses. Sensors source for emergencies such as a blackout, support can track key environmental metrics such as the atmofor self-sufﬁcient facility operation, curtailing loadspheric temperature and the temperature of things inshifts from adding renewable energy to the grid, and side greenhouses and automatically adjust controls to storage for regenerative energy from electric motors. effectively balance the overall environment. They also perform useful roles for stable facility opWe seek to improve annual production efﬁciency such eration and integration of renewable energy sources as the volume of produce for each unit of energy coninto the grid. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . sumption and upfront investment. A passive house-based farming system Electricity storage system Picture: Panasonic Eco Solutions Condominiums & Apartments Engineering Co., Ltd. 018 Supporting Community-level Climate Change Mitigation Efforts 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t We support the use of leases and private-sector funding support such efforts with supply schemes that use leases to combat climate change at the level of communities and and private-sector funding to promote comprehensive local public authorities. energy-saving measures, encourage maximum adoption Regional public authorities are responsible for promoting of renewable energy sources and systems for recouping measures to combat climate change that are responsive to wasted energy, and foster town planning and development the environmental and social attributes of their regions. We and integrated management of public facilities. Heat supply LED conversion LED conversion facilities of street lamps of traffic signals Main benefits from using leases District energy supply More efficient lighting • Effective use of fiscal resources Lower upfront costs, multi-year contracts are possible ZEB • Easier cost management, including ZEH leveling out O&M costs Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs can be included in lease contracts, enabling leveled-out monthly Small wind Solar PV ESCO* School air EV (buses & Next-gen transpayments that make budget manconditioning public vehicles) port systems turbines co-generation agement simpler Renewable energy Green public buildings Low-carbon public • More efficient administration of transport systems personal effects Enables more efﬁcient record-keeping and administration that comes with ownership such as attaching insurance to personal effects in general Small Digestion gas Hydrogen EV rechargers hydropower generators stations *Energy service companies (ESCOs) provide comprehensive energy-saving services from adoption Capture wasted energy in Infrastructure for low-carbon of energy-saving equipment to operation and water supply systems public transport maintenance. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Natural Capitalrelated Initiatives Using Our Financial 019 Capabilities 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t The concept of natural capital is attracting growing interest. Natural capital is positioned as one of the six forms of capital that orgaFinancial Capital nizations depend on when creating value in an integrated reporting framework, which is Manufactured a new trend in non-financial information disCapital closure. It is defined as “all renewable and Intellectual Human non-renewable environmental resources and Capital Capital processes that provide goods and services Social and that are the basis of the past, current or future Relationship Capital prosperity of an organization.”Specifically, natural capital includes air, water, soil, and minerals, as well as the health of forests, bioNatural Capital diversity, and ecosystems. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Natural Capital: Foundation for All Environmental, Social, and Economic Spheres Natural capital is made up of diverse living creatures and Five elements of natural capital the water, soil, and air that sustain them. These are the Biodiversity foundation sustaining life on earth and conserving them Fauna Flora needs to be prioritized ahead of everything else. Natural Capital’s Blessings Water Soil Air The way we live depends on natural capital and the ecosystem services they provide. We thus feel continued wise use Regulating services of natural resources emanating from natural capital over the Regulating climate, controlling Cultural services long run goes beyond mere environmental conservation. It Aesthetic, spiritual, educational etc. ﬂoods, purifying water etc. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . must extend to putting communities on a solid social founSupporting services Provisioning services dation to enable sustainable economic development. Nutrient salts cycle, soil formation, Food, fresh water, wood, ﬁber, fuel primary production etc. etc. Four categories of ecosystem services Global Supply Chain: Natural Capital Risks Facing Japan’s Economy Of the total material inputs into Japan’s economy, about Material Flow in Japan (Fiscal year 2013) 84% are natural resources. Of those, Japan imports about Imported products (59) 760 million tons, or about 54% of the natural resources Export (182) used in its economy. Japan has halved natural resource Import Imported (816) Net additions inputs sourced in Japan going back a little more than the resources Total to stock (515) (757) past ten years but its reliance on global procurement has material inputs 020 steadily increased. (1,674) Natural Adding imported products to natural resource imports Domestic resources, Energy consumption and emissions from etc. inputs increases import tonnage to about 820 million tons. The proresources (588) (1,405) industrial processes (553) Fertilizer (13) duction and distribution of these import categories require 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Food consumption (85) Returned to nature (81) large amounts of natural capital usage such as water. In such Generation ways, Japanese companies rely on importing raw materials Including of wastes, etc. (584) from overseas, so the size of the environmental impacts and water (258) Reduction (218) Final disposal the natural capital dependence in their supply chains may (16) form hidden risks for corporate management. Two important factors (materiality) for sustainable corporate management are properly identifying the scale of Amount of cyclical use (269) (Unit: Million tons) water use, materials use, and CO2 emissions across supply chains and managing natural capital impacts, especially in Source: Annual Report on the Environment, Sound the upstream supply chain. Material-Cycle Society, and Biodiversity 2016 Natural Capital Should be Managed Globally GHG Air Water emissions* pollution pollution Mining andd In-house Processing of Manufacturing Assembly and Shipping and harvesting of production Use Waste raw materials parts shipping p processing raw materials activities Land Waste usage materials Substantial burden in upstream supply chains *GHG: greenhouse gases Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Natural Capital Initiatives and Policies Natural Capital Finance Alliance (formerly The Natural Capital Declaration) SuMi TRUST Holdings became a signatory to the Natural NCD signatories are workCapital Declaration (NCD) proposed by the United Nations ing toward implementing NCD Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) at the commitments through Natural United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA) “Rio+20” held in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012. SuMi TRUST projects overseen by a steering committee of signatories Holdings is the only ﬁnancial institution in Japan to have and supporters and supported by a secretariat. signed the declaration when it originally promulgated. We will support the development of methodologies that can integrate natural capital considCommitment of Financial erations into the decision-making processes for all financial products and services including Institutions under the Natural loans, investment, and insurance policies. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Capital Finance Alliance (a) We will apply a holistic approach to the evaluation of bonds and stocks by integrating natural capital considerations (Excerpt)t) in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risk analysis in short-, medium-, and long-term growth forecasts of investee companies. (b) We will systematically incorporate the consideration of evaluating natural capital into the credit policies of specific sectors, including commodities, that have a major impact on natural capital, either directly or indirectly through the supply chain. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Action Guidelines for Preserving Biodiversity 1. Implementing Measures and Providing Support for Biodiversity Preservation 3. Collaboration with Stakeholders We will strive to actively protect endangered and native species. In We will engage in dialogue and cooperation with our stakeholders our role as a corporate citizen, we will work to support activities for while working to preserve biodiversity. the preservation of biodiversity. 4. Education and Training 2. Providing Products and Services We will ensure thorough implementation of these action guidelines We will endeavor to develop and provide products and services at all Group companies and will work to provide education and that contribute to the preservation of biodiversity, by conducting training aimed at the preservation of biodiversity. appropriate economic and social evaluations of the ecosystem and 5. Information Disclosure 021 encouraging the sustainable use of living resources through our We will actively disclose information about our efforts to preserve ﬁnancial functions. biodiversity. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Business and Biodiversity Initiative: Activities based on Leadership Declaration SuMi TRUST Holdings signed a leadership declaration under the Business and Biodiversity Initiative “Biodiversity in Good Company” at the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 9) held in May 2008 in Germany. Since then, we have continued to carry out activities in line with the principles of the declaration, which was led by the German government. Declaration Status of initiatives during 2015-2016 1. Analyzing corporate activities with regard to their impacts on biologiWe continued to provide investment trusts that assess impact on biodiversity and loan cal diversity products that include impact on natural capital in their assessment criteria. 2. Including the protection of biological diversity within their environmental In our CSR promotion system, we draw up a plan for each ﬁscal year on efforts related management system to natural capital and review their performance semiannually. 3. Appointing a person in the company responsible for steering all activiThe Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer in the Corporate Planning Department supervises all ties in the biodiversity sector and reporting to the Management Board activities and reports to the Executive Committee. 4. Deﬁning realistic, measurable objectives that are monitored and adjustWe have set objectives in the CSR Midterm Plan for measures including those related to ed every two to three years natural capital, and we review performance at the Executive Committee. 5. Publishing activities and achievements in the biodiversity sector in the We publish a yearly Natural Capital feature report. We disclose our biodiversity initiacompany’s annual, environmental, and/or corporate social responsibility tives in our CSR report and at various events. report We apply our procurement policy regarding illegal logging in tropical rain forests, which 6. Informing suppliers about the company’s biodiversity objectives and intehas a large detrimental impact on biodiversity, beyond copier paper to a broader range grating suppliers accordingly and step by step of ofﬁce supplies. 7. Exploring the potential for cooperation with scientiﬁc institutions nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and/or governmental institutions We strengthen our relationships with NGOs focused on tropical rain forests and biodiwith the aim of deepening dialogue and continuously improving the versity as a part of our approach to risk management. corporate management system vis-à-vis the biodiversity domain. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Caring for Natural Capital: a Global Perspective Evaluating Supply Chain Impacts on Natural Capital Natural Capital Evaluation Natural capital evaluation is a service that calculates natsourced and for each country and region, tracing back ural capital dependence arising from corporate activities through supply chain levels. and estimates the degree of impact for each input item Example of output from a Natural Capital Assessment Tool Breakdown of water usage volume in each region by sector Ratio of land usage area by region S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 5% 10% Japan 25% China 20% 18% 18% Asia (ex Japan and China) 15% Oceania 10% USA 5% 14% 13% Americas (ex USA) Europe 0 Africa Agriculture, forestry, Service industries and ﬁsheries Shipping equipment parts 7% 15% Coal, oil, gas, other minerals GHG emissions volume is likewise Industrial products calculated by sector and region. Electrical equipment Heavy industries Energy Benefits of Natural Capital Evaluation (1) Gaining quantitative risk data related to the supply chain that can be used for management judgments 022 Can obtain previously hidden risk data related to environmental impacts and the use of resources that are essential to global supply chain management (2) Obtaining quantitative data on environmental impacts that can be used for information disclosure Can use scope 3 disclosure responses to surveys such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and disclosures 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t in integrated corporate reports Initiatives for Loans Environmental Rating Loans with Evaluation of Natural Capital Preservation The sustainable use of natural capital as resources is vital capital and a company’s initiatives into the environmentalfor a company to continue its business. There is a growing rating evaluation process that assesses its environmental awareness that efforts to address issues related to natural measures. This is the world’s ﬁrst attempt to incorporate natcapital across the global supply chain as well are an indisural capital evaluation into loan criteria, and our efforts have pensable part of management strategy. been cited in Japanese government environmental white In April 2013, SuMi TRUST Bank launched its Environmental papers and European Commission reports as an example of Rating Loans with Evaluation of Natural Capital Preservation, leading-edge practice. which embed the concept of evaluating impacts on natural Environmental rating loans Natural capital evaluation (optional) Evaluation items for environmental rating Five elements of natural capital Strategy and enviro ronmental manage ementt Fauna Climate change/gllobal warming mittigatio on efffo ortss Introduction Flora of Resource recycling g/pollution counte ermeassure es qualitative evaluation Water Soil Air Environmental frienddliness of products and envvironnmenttal businnesss related to natural Environmentally friiendly properties capital Three items targeted in natural capital evaluation Biodiversity Water usage Land area GHG* emissions volume used volume Note: “Optional” refers to *GHG stands for greenhouse gases. ESCHER calculations provided by PwC SusTerms of loan decided based on environmental rating Reporting on environmental burden and risk tainability Co., Ltd. that (eligible for use with interest subsidy system) information in upstream supply chains are not available without loan products. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Natural Capital Risk Management for Loans (Equator Principles) SuMi TRUST Bank is aware that ﬁnancing large-scale projoriginating in environmental or social problems. ects such as mine development, oil and gas development, Since February 2016, SuMi TRUST Bank has integrated use power plants, petrochemical plants and infrastructure develof the Equator Principles, guidelines for private-sector ﬁnanopment may indirectly have an adverse effect on natural capcial institutions, into its decision-making processes for loans ital. We also believe it is the responsibility of a trustworthy in project ﬁnance and related risks for risk management purﬁnancial institution to avert or mitigate risks of deterioration poses. In the Equator Principles process, natural capital is one in the value of loan receivables due to project suspensions of the most important themes (for details, see page 96). Initiatives for Asset Management Biodiversity Companies Support Fund S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . In 2010, SuMi TRUST Group developed the world’s ﬁrst an important component of natural capital, and uses those Japanese equity fund that evaluates the status of biodiverevaluations to screen and select stocks for investment. sity efforts at companies from a global perspective such According to our research, no other Japanese equity fund as sustainable use and conservation of biological diversity, is designed around such a concept. Evaluation Axis for Selecting Companies for Investment 1 Risk management Companies that actively take measures to 2 Business opportunities Companies that provide technologies or 3 Long-term goals Companies that have set action plans or mitigate the impact their business activities services that preserve biodiversity other long-term goals for conserving biodihave on biodiversity* versity Investment Process 023 Investment universe Listed companies in Japan Evaluation of List of (including emerging companies listed on TSE-operated the status of companies with Portfolio 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Mothers, JASDAQ standard, biodiversity biodiversity JASDAQ growth, and other efforts commitments markets for listing smaller companies with growth prospects) STEP 1: The Japan Research Institute STEP 2: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank STEP 3: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Surveys and analysis regarding the status Selection of stocks for investment Creation of portfolio of biodiversity efforts * We use a risk metric to measure the capacity of companies to respond to natural capital risk, referencing the Natural Capital Efﬁciency Index (NCEI factors in the relationship of net sales to energy & water use and waste generated). The metric is an index of the magnitude of natural capital risk that could lower NCEI (NCEI/amount of goods or services per unit of natural capital). It draws on material balance reports companies in Japan issue that show amount of resources used (fuel etc.) and outputs (CO2 emissions etc.) generated at each stage (development & design, procurement, production, distribution, sales, consumer use and after-sales collection). Natural Capital Risk Management for Investing (ESG investing) SuMi TRUST Bank is a signatory to the Principles for Through engagement with investee companies, SuMi Responsible Investment (PRI), which was jointly estabTRUST Bank promotes pro-active information disclosure of lished by the UN Global Compact and the United Nations initiatives and policies concerning natural capital, speciﬁc Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI). actions for usage and to conserve natural capital usage, These principles require institutional investors such as penand the use of certiﬁcation systems. We also propose inision funds and asset managers to take ESG factors into tiatives aimed at increasing the corporate value of investee account when making investment decisions, including companies (for details, see page 46). impacts on environmental (E) and social (S) considerations. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 How We Contribute to Conserving Japan’s Bountiful Natural Capital Why Ecological Networks Matter Our everyday lives and economic activities rely on High-value natural capital areas Real estate prices: low abundant biodiversity. Various living creatures keeping Natural capital: abundant Suburbs the diverse environments they use intact and linking these Real estate prices: mid-range Natural capital: mid-range Cities places together via pathways called “corridors” are the key Real estate prices: high Natural capital: scarce ideas behind ecological networks. We believe evaluating impacts on regional and building CASBEE for Properties* natural capital and developing methods to manage these JHEP certification system** Financial valuation of natural value as well as constructing ecological networks will help to Environmentally friendly properties Biodiversity offsets (no net losses realized) address natural capital problems in Japan and lead to the Natural Trust activities S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . formation of a sustainable society. Improving biodiversity quality Halting the erosion of Setting aside more land for nature due to development flora and fauna Safe use of natural capital and biodiverse flora and fauna via ecological networks *CASBEE for Properties is a simple evaluation system for the environmental performance of buildings (the name of this program was changed from “CASBEE for Market Promotion” in November 2014). **JHEP is a habitat evaluation certification developed to quantitatively evaluate and certify efforts to contribute to the conservation and restoration of biodiversity. Support for Natural Trust’s Activities: Acquiring Land Acquiring Sites to 1,500 m2 of the site), located within Kuromatsunai town, Land is the foundation of natural capital in terrestrial ecosysto conserve the high-elevation wetland, one of the oldest tems. The formation of ecological networks requires acquiring in Hokkaido. land that links rich ecosystems together. Not only is developVending machines that direct a percentage of their ment destroying natural habitats but in the past few years sales to the National Trusts have been installed in the supply of unregistered land whose succession rights have the Nakano Branch, the Tokorozawa Branch and the been relinquished has grown sharply due to Japan’s shrinkTokorozawa-Ekimae Branch. Through October 2016, 024 ing population. We think retaining and expanding manfunds were donated toward the acquisition of forest land aged natural preserves will be effective in checking erosion (equivalent to 1,500m2) in Chichibu, a source region for in Japan’s natural capital and forestalling growth in mountain water supply to the greater Tokyo metropolitan area. forests and farmland where land ownership is unclear. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Vending machines that direct a percentage of sales to the National Trusts Social Contribution Donation Trusts Supporting National Trusts’ Activities SuMi TRUST Bank administers social contribution donathrough Donations for Acquiring Land tion trusts set up for the purpose of making donations to SuMi TRUST Bank supports activities to acquire highpublic-interest organizations carrying out social contribuvalue sites and land with bountiful nature through contrition activities. These trusts enable people who would like to butions from citizens and corporations that are promoted contribute to society in some form as a citizen to do so using by the Association of National Trusts in Japan. In 2014, we the trust system. The selection of Ecosystem Conservation donated funds toward the acquisition of forest land (equivSociety-Japan as a donation recipient supports the activialent to 8,000 m2) in Amami Oshima to conserve habitat ties of the Association of National Trusts in Japan, an orgafor the endangered Amami rabbit. In 2015, we donated nization that aims to protect nature by purchasing land that funds toward the acquisition of the Utasai bog (equivalent forms the natural habitat of endangered species in Japan. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Restoring Natural Capital in Cities Construction Consulting on How to Foster Biodiversity and Ecosystems Through the use of CASBEE for Properties*1 and JHEP*2 together, the environmental performance of properties can CASBEE for Properties JHEP (CASBEE: the comprehensive assessment system (JHEP: Japan Habitat Evaluation and be improve across many dimensions, helping to increase for built environment efﬁciency) Certiﬁcation Program) overall property value. Key focus points for evaluation certification Key focus points for evaluation certification • Better energy efﬁciency and environ• Improve natural value of biodiversity At SuMi TRUST Bank, biodiversity considerations are mental sustainability versus pre-project situation • Better intellectual and labor productiv• Habitat well suited to native ﬂora/fauna included in our menu of construction consulting services. ity, better indoor environments JHEP certification requirements for Evaluation items in CASBEE for Properties new evaluations *1 CASBEE for Properties: The comprehensive assessment system for built environment 1 Energy/greenhouse gases 1 No net loss in natural value of biodiefﬁciency (CASBEE) certiﬁcation is an environmental performance evaluation system 2 Water versity for buildings being developed and promoted in Japan under the guidance of the 3 Use of resources/safety 2 Quality of biodiversity exceeds the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). 4 Biodiversity/sustainable site minimum speciﬁed level *2 JHEP: JHEP is a system developed by the Ecosystem Conservation Society5 Indoor environment 3 No use of speciﬁed foreign invasive species Japan to quantitatively evaluate and certify efforts to contribute to the conservation S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . and restoration of biodiversity. Increases Overall Property Value A building’s environmental performance is evaluated on many dimensions such as energy savings, global warming Change in Property Value with Age (image) mitigation measures, biodiversity, durability, and resource Property value efﬁciency. Property value The value of buildings decline with age but the biodiversity value increases every year as the ecosystem surroundBiodiversity value ing it forms. These offsetting lifecycle patterns can maintain the combined value of the building and site together as Building value a whole. Ecological networks can be created through the connection of local sustainable-use sites, neighboring Time buildings and green nature reserves. 025 Catalysts for Deepening Natural Capital Awareness 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Our Exhibit at Eco-Products in Japan Natural Capital Study Group Held annually in December at Tokyo Big Sight, “EcoThe Natural Capital Study Group commenced in April 2013, Products in Japan” is one of the nation’s largest chaired by Masaru Yarime, a Project Associate Professor environment-related events. in the Science, Technology, and Innovation Governance SuMi TRUST Bank had from 2007-2011 highlighted bioProgram at Tokyo University’s Graduate School of Public diversity as the main theme of the booth it opened jointly Policy. Its participants come from all walks of life, ranging with the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan and the from companies and national and local governments to Association of National Trusts in Japan at the event, but its academics, research institutions, and NGOs. In an environexhibit theme since 2012 has been natural capital. The exhibit ment welcoming to open inquiry, participants have so far explains the economic signiﬁcance of natural capital through engaged in a series of lively debates on the research topdisplays of our initiatives for investment and loan products ics of various members. In 2015, the key points and ﬁndand real estate, information disclosure, and our support for ings of these discussions were organized, documented, activities of the National Trusts. Our natural capital exhibit has and published as an introductory book on natural capital been well received by many companies and organizations. with a focus on the challenges for national governments, local authorities, and companies. The book covers a wide range of themes, ranging from the historical context and global trends informing the growing debate on natural capital to the initiatives of ﬁnancial institutions, companies, and local authorities in applying natural capital concepts. Our exhibit at Eco-Products in Japan Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Addressing the Issues of a SuperAging Society by 026 Using Our Financial Functions 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Japan is one of the first nations in the world to Trend in Aging Population and its Projection face the challenges of a super-aging society. Actual Figures Projections (10 thousands) (%) Senior generations in Japan are being asked to 16,000 40.0 embrace new ways of living that enable them to enjoy a long, vibrant life while continuing 12,000 30.0 to live in the regions they call home and stay connected with society after retirement. The 8,000 20.0 role of finance in managing personal wealth is extremely important for building an economic 4,000 10.0 system that supports new lifestyles. It is no exaggeration to say many feel trust banks, in 0 0 particular, are a category of financial institu2013 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 (year) tion that most effectively performs a diverse Population by Age Group 0-14 15-64 65-74 75 or over Percentage of Population Aged 65 or Older range of functions. SuMi TRUST Group sees Sources: Figures for 2013 are from the “Population Census” (as of October 1, addressing the problems of an aging society as 2013), Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications; estimates for 2015 and beyond are based on the medium-fertility (medium-mortality) a source of business opportunities and is workprojection from the “Population Projections for Japan (January 2012),” ing actively to offer solutions for them. National Institute of Population and Social Security Research. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Trust Banks Offer a Rich Variety of Problem-Solving Functions 1. Ensuring Stability in Net Income for Senior Generations What senior generations seek from wealth management and costs remain in balance and their quality of life can are solutions that enable them to put aside savings for be maintained. SuMi TRUST Bank plays a part in helping unexpected expenses such as illness or earn income that clients put together a well-conceived life plan, drawing supplements their public pension stipends, draws down on the many products and services we have assembled to their savings in keeping with a plan to ensure their income enable seniors to attain their goals in such circumstances. Lump-sum retirement allowance Wage income for rehired retirees Income from private pension S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Main Wage income Income from public pension income Medical and nursing Main care costs expenses Living expenses (repayment of home mortgage etc.) Asset formation stage Asset liquidation stage Savings Gifts to children or Bequeathing grandchildren before death Housing Current residence Conveniently located condo Home for elderly Retirement-age Working-age generations generations Senior generations 027 30 40 50 60 70 80 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Personal Pension Trust their residence as collateral. The funds can be received in SuMi TRUST Bank’s Personal Pension Trust is a product an annual speciﬁed amount like a pension, or at any time in with a monthly or bimonthly payment stream like a pension an amount within a certain predetermined limit, with their plan that draws on deposited funds. A client who wanted residence serving as the collateral. to start receiving living expenses later in life, for example, This product enables them to use the money for any could determined the date when payments commenced purpose other than as a business loan, so that they can not and receive necessary sums in regular payments. only use it to enjoy their free time, but also to fund renovations to their residence or as a lump sum payment when Money flows Example: Starts receiving payments moving into a nursing home. five year after application Upfront deposit Offering Various Insurance Products into trust In addition to individual annuity insurance and whole life Example: Five insurance, SuMi TRUST Bank also carries medical and can10 million yen years cer insurance. We also have a range of products that insure Guaranteed principal against various uncertainties such as the cost of advanced medical care, inpatient care due to injury or one of the three ¥100,000 ¥100,000 ¥100,000 ¥100,000 ¥100,000 major diseases (cancer, acute myocardial infarction, stroke), and support in old age such as a nursing care guarantee. Wants to start Regular payments from trust to receiving payments Clients between ages of 40 and 65 who have applied client’s ordinary savings account after five years for our discretionary investment management products (wrap accounts) can also apply free of charge for our Life Reverse Mortgages Reassurance Package, a service that features cancer insurA reverse mortgage is a loan that supports an enriching ance, nursing care insurance, and personal injury coverage. second life. SuMi TRUST Bank began offering reverse Likewise, wrap account applicants between the ages of 66 mortgages in March 2005, which lend funds to allow cliand 80 are also eligible to apply for the personal injury covents to live comfortably in their retirement years by using erage under our Life Reassurance Package. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2. Helping Senior Generations Safely Manage Their Wealth Anshin Support Trust (Money Trust) Through a structure that requires the consent of a family SuMi TRUST Bank offers Anshin Support Trust, a product member, the product offers preventative security against that leverages the unique functions of a trust bank to proﬁnancial crime and protects the precious assets and family vide mediumto long-term, made-to-order support for the members of our clients. preservation and management of clients’ precious assets for their sake as well as their families’. Two types of Anshin Sufficient funds to cover daily living expenses can be paid while the Support Trust are available: a “money trust” and a “life client and their family members look after the client’s assets insurance trust.” Pre-specified sums As for the money trusts, the trustor him/herself (self Lump-sum payment paid regularly beneﬁt trust) or another person (third-party beneﬁt trust) can This trust is designed so Of funds entrusted in a be named as the trust beneﬁciary. In this way, trust assets are entrusted funds cannot be paid Security Trust, a pre-specified disbursed according to the client’s wishes, to him/herself, out without the consent of a sum can be paid on a regular S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . pre-designated family member. basis to cover necessary living family members, charities, or any other bodies. For examIt provides family members with expenses. ple, there are clients who have set up self-beneﬁt trusts at an opportunity to have open discussions beforehand that SuMi TRUST Bank who have looked at moving into a nursing prevents members from being home for the elderly but have nobody they can trust to manscammed. age and conserve their wealth and are worried about what *No management fees are charged would happen if they were to develop dementia later in life. In such cases, SuMi TRUST Bank is obliged to pay without fail monthly residence fees on their behalf. Guardianship System Support Trust The Guardianship System Support Trust is a trust designed to protect the assets of the ward and contribute to the staMechanism of Money Trust bility of his or her living into the future. The money placed (3) Disbursement of living in trust is paid out as a speciﬁed sum paid regularly to the (1) Establishment of trust expenses, educational ward, under a special provision established in accordance (contract or will) funds, etc. with a written instruction of the family court. 028 Jointly operated designated money Trustor him/herself, trust with special family member(s), clause attached charity (charities), Submission of an (principal guaranteed) etc. (beneficiary) Ward of adult application form, etc. Sumitomo Mitsui guardianship Trust Bank 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Money entrusted Client (trustor and beneficiary) (trustee) Giving concurrence and (trustor) directions with respect to Jointly operated designated disbursement of assets to money trust with special clause (2) Money entrusted beneficiary attached (principal guaranteed) Related guardian/ Management professional guardian of money Money disbursed (legal representative) Person authorized according to written to give directions instructions of family court Sumitomo Mitsui Report Instructions (individual Trust Bank (trustee) related to trust) Family court In cases when there is no relative suited to be the co-signer or act as the person authorized to give directions, clients can sign a discretionary guardian contract with a lawyer or judiConsultations and Inquiries related to cial scrivener to serve as their co-signer or the person authoAdult Guardianship System rized to give directions for their self-beneﬁt trust. Under agreements concluded with the Legal-Support Adult Guardian Center (Legal Support) and some regional Security Trust lawyers’ associations, SuMi TRUST Bank refers customers’ In view of the growing sophistication of ﬁnancial crime, SuMi consultations and inquiries related to the adult guardianTRUST Bank commenced offering a Security Trust, a new ship system to Legal Support and the associations. product for protecting client assets, in September 2015. This product is structured so pre-designated a co-signer Support for Family Trusts (a relative as far removed as the third degree of kinship, For clients who seek a Family Trust (private trust) for etc.) must consent to a request by the contracting party bequeathing or managing family wealth using a trust strucfor a payment from deposited funds before the payout can ture, SuMi TRUST Bank supports the establishment of be executed. For everyday living expenses, the contracting steady operation. party can withdraw up to 200,000 yen per month periodically even without the consent of the co-signer. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 w it h D e mentiaDementia is a disease which accompanies aging. Dementia, a typical Dealing example of which is Alzheimer’s disease, causes disabilities, including roblems memory and judgment problems, by undermining the brains’ funcRelated P tions, making it difﬁcult for the patient to lead a social life and communicate with other people. As Japan’s population ages, the number of people suffering from dementia is rapidly increasing. Among people aged 65 or older, around one in seven people is presumed to be suffering from dementia, and if people afﬂicted with MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment), which is regarded as a pre-dementia stage, are included, the proportion rises to one in four. This means that a certain percentage of our customers are presumed to be suffering from dementia. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Current Status of Dementia among People Aged 65 or Older (estimate as of 2010) (1) Elderly people with dementia recognized as requiring long-term nursing care Approx. (Daily life independence level II or higher) Elderly people with dementia 2.8 million (2) Elderly people recognized as Approx. 4.39 million requiring long-term nursing care (Around 15% of the total) Approx. (Daily life independence level I) or elderly people with dementia not recognized 1.6 million Total as requiring long-term nursing care 28.74 million (3) Elderly people with MCI Approx. 3.8 million (13% of the total) (4) Healthy elderly people Approx. 20.54 million 029 Source: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Participation in Industry-Academia Partnership concerning Dementia Led by the Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, the COLTEM project for “a development center of social technologies integrating law, engineering and medicine that seamlessly support community life for the elderly from the period of sound health to the onset of dementia” is subsidized by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. SuMi TRUST Bank belongs to the ﬁnancial satellite team under this project and is a collaborator in the effort to create a manual for ﬁnancial institutions for responding to people with dementia. Premised on the supposition that the client is a person with dementia, the satellite team has solicited a wide variety of viewpoints on how this premise would affect face-to-face sales with dementia sufferers and product development. In October 2016, COLTEM sponsored a symposium aimed at helping senior citizens to feel safe in pursuing self-directed economic activities, and participants shared their views on how ﬁnancial institutions should tackle the problem of dementia. Workshop on Becoming a Supporter for People with Dementia The nurturing of “Dementia Supporters” is an initiative organized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, with the aim of creating a “society in which people can live with a sense of security even with dementia.” With the aim of training employees as Dementia Supporters, SuMi TRUST Bank is holding a course called the Workshop on Becoming a Supporter for People with Dementia at each of our branches across the country. Participating employees are certiﬁed as Dementia Supporters after taking a course lasting about an hour, which covers such matters as the symptoms of dementia, problems that can occur at ﬁnancial institutions, and ways of dealing with people who have dementia. As a result, many employees have acquired deeper understanding of dementia. Wealth Management Products for Those with Declining Capacity for Judgment (see page 28) SuMi TRUST Bank has a range of wealth management services for clients with dementia and can develop solutions for individual needs. For example, the Guardianship System Support Trust protects from embezzlement the assets of those under the adult guardianship system; the Security Trust protects those with declining capacity for judgment against money transfer scams; and the Anshin Support Trust is designed so pre-speciﬁed arrangements to pay sums necessary to cover usage fees for a nursing home for the elderly can made for those worried their capacity to manage their wealth will decline later in life. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3. Ensuring Stability in Housing for Senior Generations Housing holds the key for the elderly to maintain their matches the needs of senior generation clients and supquality of life and feel safe in their everyday routines. SuMi ports them in securing stable housing using the Group’s TRUST Bank provides information about housing that array of functions. Do you Can you Consider preparing for all live with afford to eventualities such as anticrime and disaster preparedother family keep paying ness and eliminate potenRelocate while members? housing tial hazards by removing still self operation and Stay at present steps or adding handrails Confirm in advance sufficient and address (barrier-free improvements) where the commumaintenance fees? healthy nity general support center is and For-profit nursing the availability of homes for public-sector nursself-sufficient S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Relocate to a small, easying care services residents, residences to-maintain condominium; for self-sufficient consider access to train seniors with in-home stations, local stores and care services Relocate to a shops, and hospitals Where do you comfortable residence want your final residence to be? It is best to have work done to eliminate potential hazards (barrier-free improvements); confirm in advance the content of public-sector services that accept nursing care insurance so less of a burden is Relocate after imposed on your family in the event you require you require Vacate present home and move in with children nursing care nursing care Intensive-care homes for elderly, for-profit nursing homes for What will you Where would elderly, residences do when you like to see It is important to know for the elderly with in-home nursing nursing care out your at what life stage you care, etc. becomes final days? plan to relocate Relocate to a necessary? 030 residence for the elderly Supervision: Pro·Vision Co. Ltd.’s Yumi Yamanaka (1st-grade Certified Skilled Worker of Financial Planning Exam, Environment Coordinator for Elderly and Disabled People) 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Providing Information on Reform Loans Housing Options for the Elderly Once bodily function declines, it is not unusual for peoIn many cases men and women over age 80 require nursing ple to stumble on a small step and injure themselves or care in their daily lives, and it is necessary to think about drown in the bathtub. There are cases where work must housing for senior generations from the perspective of be done to eliminate hazards (barrier-free improvements) access to medical and nursing care. There are many offin a home where seniors have lived for many years so they shoots in the complicated ﬁeld of housing eligible for the can stay there. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance nursing care insurance system and housing designed for offers renovation loans as a way to support elderly clients the elderly, and grasping the overall picture is no simple so they can live comfortably in their old age. task. In view of this, SuMi TRUST Bank invites experts to come to our branches across Japan as speakers and lead Bridge Loans for Sales of Real Estate seminars about the ﬁeld of housing with nursing care As their family structure and physical condition changes, options. In addition, we work to provide customers with quite a few people ﬁnd that they want to sell their resieasy-to-understand information through our dedicated dence to move into a nursing home or a condominium website and quarterly journal. in an area where transport is more convenient. To ensure that clients do not have to rush to sell their precious real estate, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Loan & Finance offers bridge loans for sales of real estate, providing them with support as they seek a new home that suits their post-retirement lifestyle. In addition, our realty company Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty offers clients help with selling their old home and buying a new one. Quarterly Journal “With You” and feature articles Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Increase Housing for the Elderly The number of elderly living in large cities is expected to residences for the elderly with care services while working grow sharply, and the government pointed out the vast closely with nursing care providers. shortage of facilities with nursing care in the greater Tokyo metro area in a white paper on Tokyo. To do its part to 2) Finance for Healthcare REITs help address this problem, SuMi TRUST Group has various SuMi TRUST Bank actively provides ﬁnance to healthcare initiatives in train to support an increase in housing for the REITs, which are a source of stable, long-term funding for elderly such as for-proﬁt nursing care homes. healthcare facilities such as residences for the elderly and medical malls. Healthcare REITs raise funding for use in 1) Propose Effective Use of Land healthcare facility acquisition fees and related expenses. One way SuMi TRUST Bank offers proposals for effective We have made two loans to healthcare REITs with the land use is to provide loans for construction and various number of facilities linked to these loans coming to 40 as forms of advice on building for-proﬁt nursing homes and of December 2016. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Flowchart of a Health-Care REIT Health-care REIT Asset custodian Capitalized Loan consignment contract expenses (cash loans for consumption) Asset custodian Financial institutions Shareholders’ Loans registry management consignment contract Health-care Investors’ registry manager facilities Administrative work consignment contract Residences for Administrative agent elderly & medical facilities Equity Equity investment Long-term Investor whole-building lease Operator Asset management agreement 031 Advisory contract Planning & operation advisor Asset manager 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 3) Securitization Business for Healthcare Facilities SuMi TRUST Bank is actively engaging in the securitization Outline of the Real Estate Administration and business relating to healthcare REITs and privately placed Disposal Trusts funds. As of November 2016, total healthcare REIT assets Trustor New beneficiary held in trust at SuMi TRUST Bank came to 108.5 billion yen, owner of the Effective owner real estate (3) Transfer of the trust of the real estate with the number of facilities standing at 65. In the securitibeneficiary right zation business related to REITs and privately place funds, SuMi TRUST Bank uses the scheme of a real estate admin(1) Real (2) Trust estate beneficiary (4) Dividend istration and disposal trust. This scheme refers to transfer of trust right real estate ownership from the trustor (real estate owner) to the trustee (trust bank) followed by administration, manageMaster lease arrangement ment and disposal of the real estate by the trustee based on directions given by the beneﬁciary and the distribution of Master lease company End tenant proﬁts thus generated (mainly rent revenue minus expenses) Trustee Lease (Lessee) Re-lease Re-lessee (Trust bank) or as dividends to the beneﬁciary. lessee Moreover, in addition to engaging in the real estate secuLease ritization business, SuMi TRUST Bank is also REIT-related Direct lease arrangement asset custodian and general administrative work agent. (1) The trustor (owner of the real estate) entrusts the real estate to the Healthcare & Medical Investment Corporation (SuMi TRUST trustee (trust bank) (The ownership of the real estate is transferred from Bank entrustment), established in December 2014, provides the trustor to the trustee). (2) The trustor acquires the trust beneficiary right in exchange, becoming the various support services in cooperation with customers. initial beneficiary. (3) The trustor transfers the trust beneficiary right to the buyer (new beneficiary). (4) The trustee distributes profits generated from management of the real estate as dividends to the new beneficiary. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 4. Helping with Lifestyles of Family and Relatives Special Donation Trust the bank on behalf of the client. The special donation trust is a product for the purpose of “Speciﬁed persons with disabilities” who become benecontributing to stable living into the future for speciﬁed ﬁciaries are divided into “special persons with disabilities” persons with disabilities. With this trust, funds donated are and “other speciﬁed persons with disabilities” according managed securely by SuMi TRUST Bank through jointly to the degree of disability. Special persons with disabilities operated designated money trusts and other instruments, may receive up to 60 million yen tax-free in periodic installand disbursed to the speciﬁed person with disabilities by ments to cover living costs or medical expenses, while other speciﬁed persons with disabilities may receive up to Structure of Special Donation Trusts 30 million yen without paying tax. Special Payment of donation trust living, medical and other Anshin Support Trust (Life Insurance Trust) contract expenses Client Special Beneficiary’s Anshin Support Trust (Life Insurance Trust), co-developed S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Sumitomo disabled person representative trustor by SuMi TRUST Bank and Prudential Life Insurance Co., and Mitsui Trust beneficiary Concurrence, donor Bank and communication, etc. Ltd., makes it possible to ﬂexibly design the trust service recipient (trustee) of bequest in advance with regard to the provision method and usage Money entrusted of life insurance beneﬁts. For example, the trust service can be designed such that if a customer dies, beneﬁts are paid Acting as an agent, giving Deemed donations concurrence and directions with out as necessary while being protected to cover education respect to various transactions on behalf of beneficiaries expenses for their children (see Page 28). Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) In the event of a bereavement, family members have to This product ensures a regular payment from the 032 deal with various procedures, including arrangements deposited assets in trust, offering bereaved family for the funeral and inheritance-related procedures. The members a sense of security in their daily lives after Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) is a product that, the client‘s death. in the event of a client’s death, pays out the deposited We manage the deposited assets in trust and sup2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t assets in trust to a recipient designated in advance by the port their family by making a regular monthly payclient from among their legal heirs so as to cover interim ment to cover living costs to a recipient designated in expenses and funeral costs. advance by the client from among their legal heirs. Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) • Apply for Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) • Application for Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) Client • Money entrusted Client • Money entrusted (trustor and • Designate recipient of assets in trust (trustor and • Designate recipient of assets in trust beneficiary) beneficiary) Sumitomo Sumitomo Client’s death Mitsui Client’s death Mitsui Trust • At SuMi TRUST Bank Head Office, apply for payment Trust • At SuMi TRUST Bank Head Office, apply for payment Bank from Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) Bank Family from Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) (trustee) Family • Designate payee bank account (trustee) member member (recipient of (recipient of • Advice regarding payment method • Advice regarding payment method and assets in trust) assets in trust) confirmation of payee bank account • Payment of assets in trust • Payment of assets in trust The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as a lump sum. The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as a regular payment. Deposit into Deposit into Application Application money trust money trust Death Death (Lump Sum) (principal (Lump Sum) (Annuity) (principal (Annuity) Trust fund Trust fund Trust fund (Annuity) guaranteed) guaranteed) Trust fund (Annuity) Trust fund Trust fund The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as a lump The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as sum, as a payment for interim expenses or funeral costs. a regular monthly payment for living expenses. Illustration Illustration Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 5. Ensuring Heirs Inherit Family Wealth Helping Still-Living Clients to Give to the Next Generation Annual Donation Support Trust Wedding and Child-Rearing Support Trust Annual Donation Support Trust is a service that supports The wedding and child-rearing trust is based on a tax the implementation of procedures for lifetime donation to exemption from the gift tax for lump-sum donations to relatives, such as compilation of a donation contract. Each cover funds for a wedding or raising a child. Through this tax year, SuMi TRUST Bank provides customers with informasystem preference created in the 2015 amendment to the tion on documents necessary for the donation, helping tax system, up to 10 million yen can be given as a tax-free them to not miss the opportunity for donation. This serlump-sum donation for wedding or child-rearing purposes vice makes it easy to execute lifetime donations. Once to a child or grandchild who is at least age 20 up until he S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . each year, SuMi TRUST Bank sends a donation report to or she turns age 50. As disbursements are made from a both the donor and recipient. “money trust” that requires receipts conﬁrming payments for wedding or child-rearing purposes, this product can Tuition Fund Endowment Trust clearly be the answer for donors who want their gifts to be An exemption from the gift tax has been created for used for marriage or child-rearing purposes. lump-sum donations to cover tuition funds, allowing grandparents to make a tax-free lump-sum donation to Social Contribution Donation Trust grandchildren, etc. aged under 30, to help with tuition fees SuMi TRUST Bank offers products and services meant and other educational costs. to support building a prosperous future for the next Funds deposited with SuMi TRUST Bank as tuition funds generation by enabling donation activities that serve the for a grandchild, etc. via this product are paid out as tuition public interest. One such product is the social contribution funds by SuMi TRUST Bank when a request for payment is donation trust, where clients select recipients every received from the grandchild, etc. If payment is made to a year from a list of organizations that SuMi TRUST Bank school or other educational institution, an exemption from provides, and we process the donations (see Page 37). gift tax will be provided, up to a maximum of ¥15 million 033 per grandchild, etc. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Helping with Smooth Planning for Inheritances Estate Planning Meanwhile, to customers who wish to contribute their legEstate planning is a service that provides support (consultacy to social and public goods, SuMi TRUST Bank provides ing) aimed at summing up the client’s wishes regarding the information on the “donation through bequeathal” system. succession of their assets and drawing up a speciﬁc plan This system supports people who wish to bequeath their legfor this. Using the know-how that we have built up over acy (donation by way of a will) to such organizations as public decades in the ﬁeld of asset management, inheritance, and foundations, incorporated organizations, incorporated eduwill-related services, SuMi TRUST Bank offers the following cational institutions and recognized non-proﬁt organizations consultation services. through SuMi TRUST Bank’s will trust business function. Will Trusts One-Stop Inheritance Service SuMi TRUST Bank offers a will trust service to support the sucSuMi TRUST Bank offers a One-Stop Inheritance Service cession to the next generation of various assets, including to ensure that complex inheritance procedures proceed deposits, securities, and real estate, in accordance with the smoothly. More speciﬁcally, upon application by an heir, we client’s wishes. There are two following courses for Will Trusts: will provide support and carry out the following procedures on their behalf, according to their request. • Conﬁrmation of the legal heirs Execution Course: SuMi TRUST Bank holds wills under • Investigation and identiﬁcation of inherited property its custody and undertakes their • Advice in discussions concerning the division of the estate execution when the inheritance • Change of name on savings and securities and/or their process starts. conversion into cash (we will carry out the procedures preCustody Course: SuMi TRUST Bank holds wills under scribed by each ﬁnancial institution on the heir’s behalf) its custody and hands them over to • Change of name on real estate the heirs when the inheritance pro• Advice concerning allowances to pay tax obligations, cess starts. such as income tax and inheritance tax Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 6. Initiatives to Improve Gerontology Literacy Wellbeing Knowledge Examination Silver College Seminars Japan is becoming a super-aging society without parallel Many seniors hope to live out their golden years safely elsewhere in the world. No country needs gerontology, an with peace of mind. SuMi TRUST Bank offers Silver College interdisciplinary ﬁeld on topics relating to aging, as much as seminars especially for this generation of seniors at our Japan. At SuMi TRUST Bank, our branch general managers, branches across Japan. There are four systems or funcwhich often interact with customers at our branch ofﬁces, tions seen as necessary for an aging society: public support are setting an example and studying gerontology, and all (safety net), assistance (medical and nursing care), mutual of them have or will take the Wellbeing Knowledge Exam, aid (giving and receiving aid), and self-help where people which is run by the Society for Applied Gerontology-Japan. protect themselves. One form of self-help is preparation Students of gerontology study a wide assortment of subbut there are not many places where people can learn sysjects relating to seniors, how seniors live, health, successful tematically what speciﬁcally they should do to be prepared aging, nursing-care insurance, and pension systems. Our for an aging society. A place where our clients can learn aim at SuMi TRUST Bank is to encourage even more of our how to be prepared from some of the best instructors, our employees to study gerontology so we can become a bank Silver College program has been well received. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . that is genuinely necessary for a super-aging society. Partnership with ILC-Japan SuMi TRUST Holdings is a corporate sponsor of ILC-Japan, the Japanese branch of the International Longevity Center, an international alliance of organizations focused on gerontology. We work closely with ILC-Japan to jointly plan seminars for our Silver College program and publish information booklets. We participated in the Seminars on the Lifestyles of Long-Lived Societies, which is sponsored by ILC-Japan. We are working to gather various sorts of information about the problems of aging societies and broaden our network. 034 7. Participants in Comprehensive Regional Care Comprehensive regional care is a necessary support systhe comprehensive regional care support center is promottem to enable the elderly to continue to live in ways that ing. The branch participates in the urban-based compresuit them in a place they are most comfortable until they hensive regional care system that collaborates with diverse 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t reach their ﬁnal days. We think SuMi TRUST Bank can play stakeholders. an important role as a ﬁnancial institution that shoulders a The Fukui Branch participates in an investigative comresponsibility for managing elderly client assets, and our mittee that looks into transparent examples of difﬁcultbranches nationwide are actively participating in efforts to to-support dementia cases that is regularly convened by build comprehensive regional care systems. people in the medical and nursing care ﬁelds in Fukui city. The Omori Branch is a participant in Ota Ward’s pioThe branch works to offer input to the committee from the neering network to look out for elderly citizens, a scheme viewpoint of a ﬁnancial institution. A New Way for Medical Practitioners to Contribute to Regional Care Japan is increasingly a super-aging society, where more seniors seek medical care in regions where they have lived for years or in their homes, so the provision of so-called comprehensive regional care is increasingly in demand. It is increasingly necessary for medical care providers such as me to go beyond treating illness and play a part in enabling patients to die in a digniﬁed manner. For illnesses with little prospect for a full recovery, to support patients and be there in their ﬁnal moments, there is a need to promote Advanced Care Planning (ACP) that prompts patients and families to consider decisions ahead of time before patients approach the point where they can no longer make decisions for themselves. Rather than putting medical practitioners at the center, ACP aims to weigh equally nursing care and welfare considerations and prioritize the desires of patients. Making such plans invariably raises questions about what to do with the residence and household effects of patients, estate planning and succession issues, tombstone selection and the like and so goes well beyond the scope of what the medical proFukui Medical Association fession can respond to alone. It is thus vital for a multi-disciplinary team that includes a banker, lawyer, Vice Chairman and priest or others who can help with religious matters to also guide patients and their families. I’ve Masayuki Yamamoto found in many cases alleviating a worry that is disturbing a patient leads to a remarkable improvement in the patient’s health. I think there is a new role for doctors with a private practice to play in this region. While assembling a multi-disciplinary team that functions well is normally not easy, it is not uncommon for such initiatives to go smoothly if practitioners take the lead in directing the team, and SuMi TRUST Bank’s Fukui Branch performs the role one expects of a trust bank. In this way I hope I can contribute to establishing a new role for medical practitioners in this region. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Various Solutions Using 035 Trust Functions 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Under the trust system, trustors enact trust Trust Mechanism activities, such as trust agreements and wills, to transfer their property including money and Trustee (Trust bank) estate to a trustee, who the trustors can rely on. The trustee, then, administers the trust Trust Monitoring, agreement, Defining supervision rights property for the beneficiaries in accordance will the purpose of the trust, Distribution of income from with aims defined by the trustors. The trustee transferring property trust assets is highly responsible for a duty of loyalty and other obligations. Based on our “Trustee Entruster Beneficiaries Spirit,” Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) is working towards resolvDuty of due care of a prudent manager Administration Duty of loyalty ing social issues. Duty to segregate property, etc. Trust assets (Source: Trust Companies Association of Japan) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Mechanism of Using Donations and Other Funds to Solve Social Issues Charitable Trusts A charitable trust is a system in which funds are entrusted be “order made” to ﬁt the client’s instructions. What public to a trust bank that administers and manages the funds to interest is it to serve and what sort of granting process will it carry out charitable activities in a pre-determined way. For implement? The trust can be arranged to reﬂect the client’s example, these trusts may be used by individuals wishing instructions on the monetary size of the grants (scholarships), to provide funds for charitable activities or by companies the number, the regional scope, or the terms of eligibility. that wish to return a portion of their proﬁts to society. They Since Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) have been used in a wide range of ﬁelds, including the probegan managing its ﬁrst charitable trust in 1977, the numvision of academic scholarships, support of environmental ber of trusts under its management has steadily risen, and protection activities, and promotion of international coopthey fund grants in various charitable ﬁelds. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . eration and international exchanges. As of March 2016, there are 202 charitable trusts with Charitable trusts are often named for the trustor, so his or total assets of 33.0 billion yen under our management. In her aspirations can be remembered for years to come by many ﬁscal year 2015, grants from charitable trust totaling 1.3 bilpeople. Moreover, to ensure the public interest is served in lion yen were provided to 2,948 bodies in total (including accordance with the client’s intentions, a charitable trust can individuals) for activities that serve the public interest. Mechanism of Charitable Trusts List of Charitable Trusts by Donation Type (as of March 2016) Client Number of trusts (fund provider = entruster) Type under management Scholarship 72 Grant recipient Consultation Promotion of natural science research 39 Grant recipient Conclusion of a charitable Implementation of Promotion of human science research 6 trust agreement public-interest activity Grant recipient Promotion of education 22 036 Day-to-day management Social welfare 10 Grant recipient Provision Sumitomo Mitsui Financial management Promotion of arts and culture 10 of grants Grant recipient Trust Bank Protection and propagation of (trustee) 1 animals and plants 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Conservation of the natural Exercise of the authority Nomination of a grant 8 granted under the recipient and advice and environment Permission Trust Act and Supervision recommendations Development and maintenance of consent in Application concerning 17 important Submission of a important matters the urban environment matters report on the status of trust Promotion of international 14 assets cooperation and exchanges Other 3 Management Trust executor Government ministry committee, etc. Total 202 The Japan Trust for Global Environment The Japan Trust for Global Environment was established in July 1991 with the aim of directing private-sector donations as financial support to projects run by NGOs and other bodies doing important work to conserve the global environment. The earth where we live faces a host of environmental challenges. Developing nations are especially susceptible to the effects of environmental problems such as global warming, unsustainable logging and deforestation, growing scarcity of fresh water resources, and soil degradation. The Japan Trust for Global Environment provides 16 million yen per year in grants for projects led by NGOs aimed at conserving the global environment, ranging from tree planting in developing nations and the development of treeChildren take their time to properly plant nursery saplings (Republic of Mali) planting technologies to environmental education to develop personnel and the protection and propagation of endangered wildlife species. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Social Contribution Donation Trusts SuMi TRUST Bank offers social contribution donation trusts (also referred to as “Bridge to Tomorrow”) intended to make donations to charitable organizations etc. engaged in social contribution activities. Through the trust, clients can choose donation recipients from a list of organizations that SuMi TRUST Bank provides and donate one-ﬁfth of the original trust principal once a year. (Donors can change National Trusts donation recipients each year.) These clients receive Report on reports from the recipient on how the donations were used “trust lands” and what activities were conducted. SuMi TRUST Bank supports activities regarding not only the environment but also various themes including educaDonors receive a “Nature’s Bounty” gift every year S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . tion, medical care, academia, and culture through social contribution donation trusts. List of Donation Recipients (as of April 1, 2016) World Wide Fund for Nature Japan Environment (WWF Japan) Environment Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan Wildcat hand Beech picture Beech-leaf chopNational Federation of UNESCO towels frame stick holders Education Associations in Japan Medicine Japan Cancer Society Social welfare Japan Guide Dog Association Mechanism of Social Contribution Donation Trusts International medical Application for social Médecins Sans Frontières Japan support contribution donation trust Donation transferred Academics The Japan Prize Foundation Designation of recipient (in November of each year) 037 Culture Japan Arts Council Client Recipient Disaster reconstruction Central Community Chest of Japan support (disaster relief for the Great East Japan Earthquake) Sumitomo Mitsui 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Support for children The Nippon Foundation Trust Bank Support for sports for (trustee) Special Olympics Nippon Foundation people with disabilities Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto Receipt for donation sent Medicine University Activities report sent Designated Donation Trusts SuMi TRUST Bank offers designated donation trusts, which Donation recipients can be chosen from beyond the list of were created based on the ﬁscal year 2011 revision to organizations SuMi TRUST Bank provides. Regular donathe tax system. Investment returns are exempt from taxations are made over a period of either ﬁve or ten years to tion and can be donated together with the trust principle. the designated recipient. Choosing ECS-J as a Donation Recipient Supports National Trusts’ Activities For social contribution donation trusts, the selection of Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan (ECS-J) as a donation recipient supports the activities of the Association of National Trusts in Japan, an organization that aims to protect nature by purchasing land that forms the natural habitat of endangered species in Japan. Support has been ongoing in particular in three regions for National Trusts’ activities: habitat for the endangered Tsushima leopard cat in Nagasaki Prefecture’s Tsushima, habitat for the endangered Amami rabbit in Kagoshima Prefecture’s Amami Oshima, and the site of Japan’s northern-most native beech forest in the Hokkaido region’s Kuromatsunai-cho. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Social Contribution Scheme Using Treasury Shares Trusts for Managing Loaned-Out Shares SuMi TRUST Bank offers trust schemes for companies to SuMi TRUST Bank offers trusts for managing loaned-out donate dividend income from their treasury holdings to shares so shareholders can donate dividend income tax public interest foundations etc. as a way to contribute to free to public interest foundations etc. Using this trust, society. The voting rights with treasury shares placed in shareholders lend shares without compensation to NPOs such trusts reside with SuMi TRUST Bank. etc. in a scheme that enables them to offer ongoing supIn ﬁscal year 2014, SuMi TRUST Bank, in conjunction port to the designated stock borrower in the form of taxwith Toyota Motor Corp. (trustor) and Toyota Mobility free dividend income from the shares. Foundation (beneﬁciary), commenced initiatives using this In ﬁscal year 2014, SuMi TRUST Bank commenced efforts scheme. In this case, the dividend income is used for many to encourage interested parties to set up such trusts with issues, from narrowing the mobility disparity in emerging the Center for iPS Cell Research and Application at Kyoto nations and activities to promote healthy development of University as the designated stock borrower. the auto industry to funding cutting-edge technological S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . and systems research in developed markets. Shareholder De facto stock lending Foundations* etc. Share lender Share borrower • Allotment of treasury shares • Dividends Dividends held in trust Shares placed Receives cash from in a trust trust dividends (Donation) (Trustee) Sumitomo Shares (Trustor) (Beneficiary) Stock issuer Mitsui NPOs*, Trust Bank foundations** Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Trustee (Trust for managing Shares loaned-out shares) * General incorporated foundations ** Public interest foundations For such trusts, the nominal shareholder is “Japan 038 Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account).” * Public interest foundations 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Center for iPS Cell Research and Application at Kyoto University The Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA) at Kyoto University is a world-leading core research institution specializing in iPS cell research. Led by Director Shinya Yamanaka, the 2012 Nobel Prize winner in Physiology or Medicine, the center aims to harness iPS cell technologies to develop more effective medical treatments for patients hoping for them. iPS cell technologies are a breakthrough technology developed in Japan with the potential to create better medical treatments for intractable diseases like Parkinson’s disease, hard-to-diagnosis Human iPS cells diseases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), blood diseases, diabetes, and those suffering from painful injuries. CiRA pursues its research activities with the aim of accelerating the realization of medical treatments derived from iPS cell applications. A U.S. research center linked to Professor Yamanaka has received many donations from individuals and corporations, and such donations provide a solid ﬁnancial basis for research centers, Dr. Yamanaka argues. We agree with this and have set up “trusts for managing donated shares” and “social contribution donation trusts” as sources of support for CiRA. In connection with our support for the above, we invited a speaker from CiRA to lecture at a successful aging support seminar we hosted at the Kyoto-Shijo Branch. Everyone who came listened eagerly to the speaker’s talk on research using iPS cells and the promise of regenerative medicine. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 IR/SR/ESG Consulting in Stock Transfer Agency Services Business Stock Transfer Agency Services ESG Solution Services The stock transfer agency services business receives conIn the past few years, the ESG investment market has grown signments to perform stock-related administrative work on rapidly, so it has become increasingly important for compabehalf of stock-issuing companies. Its operations include: nies to integrate ESG from a medium-to-long term stand• Administering shareholder registries and sending out invipoint, strengthen their information disclosure, and engage tations to general shareholders’ meetings in an ongoing dialogue with investors. • Administering stock-related matters such as capital SuMi TRUST Bank offers various kinds of advice to issuincreases and stock splits ers from the standpoint of information disclosure in par• Offering various consulting services of stock-related profesticular, and provides ESG solution services that support sional work on, for example, general shareholders’ meetings companies in reaching out to long-term investors and S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . • Offering support services for IR/SR activities forming trust-based relationships with them. • Providing foreign shareholders in Japan and overseas with proxy voting analysis and results Points that Appeal to Long-term Investors IR/SR* Consulting Services The Group has a dedicated IR/SR team in the Stock Transfer Management Long-term, Agency Business Advisory Department that provides IR and SR foundation sustained growth supports growth support services that harness our unique know-how and network at home and abroad as a stock transfer agency to enable clients to realize more efﬁcient and effective IR and SR activities. *Investor Relations (IR) and Shareholder Relations (SR) Investor relations (IR) refers to public relations activities that target investors, specifically Builds a compelling growth Forms a durable managethe full range of activities by which corporations provide to shareholders and investors model that secures long-term ment foundation that secures the information they need to make investment decisions in a timely, fair, and ongoing investment (ownership) growth model realization manner. Shareholder relations (SR) refers to those activities targeting shareholders. 039 Main Offerings in IR/SR Consulting ESG Solution Services: Menu of Key Options 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Domestic beneficial shareholder survey Offering Advice on Reports with Non-financial Information The domestic beneﬁcial shareholder survey covers domestic instituWe explain the meaning of initiatives relating to ESG based on recent tional investors that exist behind domestic trust banks focused on asset trends in non-ﬁnancial information disclosure and responsible investment, management. The survey can be used to select institutions subject to and provide an assortment of advice on how to prepare reports with noninvestor meetings on ﬁnancial results and one-on-one IR meetings, and ﬁnancial information such as CSR reports and integrated reports. to build communication toward shareholders’ meetings. • Explain investor trends and the status of the responsible investment market Foreign beneficial shareholder survey • Explain ESG information disclosure The foreign beneﬁcial shareholder survey covers overseas institutional • Explain the importance of identifying materiality investors that exist behind overseas custodian banks. The survey can be • Offer advice on preparing integrated reports or CSR reports used to select destinations to visit for overseas IR, and provides services for • Support overseas SR (ESG IR) promoting the exercise of voting rights ahead of shareholders’ meetings. Individual shareholder analysis We analyze shareholders’ registries from the perspective of IR activities. Reference Basic Thinking concerning Materiality The analysis can be used to understand the current status of individual shareholders for planning IR strategies, measuring the effects of IR/SR ESG themes (themes with high impact on stakeholders) activities for individuals, etc. Analysis for exercise of voting rights We analyze trends in the exercise of voting rights by domestic and overseas institutional investors. The analysis is available as materials for in-house reports and considerations, including predictions on the exerESG themes that ESG themes that cise of voting rights ahead of shareholders’ meetings and reviews after work for SMTH’s work against STMH’s shareholders’ meetings. corporate value corporate value Focus Club (for members) The Focus Club provides information about Japanese stocks investment trends among overseas institutional investors, etc. and their views on corporate governance to IR, administration, and legal sections of member companies. Materiality Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Social Contribution as Business Activities Mortgage Security Service against Severe and Chronic Diseases “The severe major diseases” (cancer, acute myocardial mortgage borrowers who are at least age 20 and up to age infarction, stroke) and “the ﬁve serious chronic diseases” 45, and those who are age 46 up to age 55 are eligible to (high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney failure, cirselect the guarantee option that suits their needs. rhosis of the liver, chronic pancreatitis) are what we call “the These options are the “full-beneﬁt type” that eliminates eight major diseases.” The number of people affected by the loan balance in the event they are diagnosed, and the these ailments in Japan is growing as the population ages. “half-beneﬁt type” that reduces the loan balance to half. For cases where clients with unpaid principle on their home For those clients who are at least age 20 and up to age 45 mortgage are diagnosed with one of the eight major diswho select guarantees against either the eight major diseases, SuMi TRUST Bank offers a guarantee service for the eases or the three severe diseases, their guarantee comes S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . remainder of their home mortgage. with a lump-sum payment in the event they are hospitalThe guarantee service comes with three forms of coverized for diseases or injuries not named in their guarantee, age: one against the eight major diseases, one against the i.e., “triple hospitalization security.” three severe diseases, and the cancer guarantee. Home Full benefit type Eliminates the loan balance Half benefit type Reduces the loan balance to half Diagnosed with cancer, acute myocardial infarction, Diagnosed with cancer, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or chronic pancreatitis failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or chronic pancreatitis Waiting Loan balance Waiting Loan balance is period goes to zero! period cut in half! (three Repaid (three Repaid 040 months) months) Loan balance Loan balance Execute loan Execute loan 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Support for the Bellmark Movement By collecting the Bellmark labels found on everyday prodOur Role in the Bellmark Movement ucts, schools can purchase needed equipment based on (as of the end of November 2016) the number of points they have gathered; this is known as the Bellmark movement, which began in 1960. Although Sponsoring PTAs, etc. Bellmark points numerous banks were involved at the start, since 1982 (schools, collected, order Transfer into companies PTA account (displaying the community for equipment SuMi TRUST Bank has overseen all administration related centers, etc.) Bellmark on their products) to transactions for the movement. We now administer a total of 27,375 parent teacher 10% of payment for Order placed for goods ordered goods Invoice for amount of Bellmark points collected association (PTA) accounts nationwide (as of the end of is donated from Trust bank PTA account Bellmark November 2016) and take care of tasks such as handling (the Group) Foundation payments from sponsor companies to PTAs, and transAssistance through the Bellmark Payment from ferring assistance funds from partner companies to the PTA account Foundation account for goods ordered Trust bank Bellmark Educational Support Foundation. In addition, (the Group) we look after ﬁnancial aid transfers to regions affected by Partner Receipt of Remote schools, companies goods ordered special support disasters and adversities (friendship assistance). (companies schools, disasterWhen schools purchase equipment through the dealing in Receipt of aid goods stricken schools, educational developing countries Bellmark movement, 10% of the purchase price is donated equipment) to the Bellmark Foundation, to be used as ﬁnancial aid for Main process of Bellmark movement schools, including those in remote areas and those damFlow of money in the Bellmark movement aged in disasters, as well as schools in developing countries. SuMi TRUST Bank continues to support the Bellmark project as a social contribution that is part of our business. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Facilitate Financing Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (the “Group”) considers activities. The bank also responds to clients’ requests the facilitation of ﬁnancing to small and medium-sized for consultation and complaints through a toll-free enterprises (SMEs) and individuals seeking housing telephone number as well as at branch ofﬁces. loans as one of its most important social missions. The Act concerning Temporary Measures to SuMi TRUST Bank took steps to further enhance its Facilitate Financing for SMEs, etc. expired on March ﬁnancial intermediary function and established a basic 31, 2013. Even so, the Group will continue providing policy on the facilitation of ﬁnancing. This was to ensure appropriate and proactive ﬁnancial intermediary serprompt and appropriate responses to requests from vices to facilitate the business activities of SMEs and to SMEs and housing loan clients for various consultations, help housing loan clients enjoy a stable lifestyle. Also, restructuring of loan repayment conditions, etc. when there are consultations about, or requests for, the S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . The bank facilitates ﬁnancing operations through a restructuring of loan repayment conditions, etc. from system at branch ofﬁces to provide prompt and approclients who have been directly or indirectly affected by priate responses to clients’ consultations about, or the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Group endeavrequests for, the restructuring of loan repayment conors to respond in a ﬂexible and appropriate manner, ditions and other matters, and through a system at the taking into account each client’s circumstances. head ofﬁce to fully grasp the branch ofﬁce support Number of Loan Claims which Requested Restructuring of Loan Conditions, etc. (In the case of SMEs) (Unit: case) End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of March June September December March June September March 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2016 Number of loan claims for which restructuring of loan conditions, etc. was requested 3,835 3,950 4,086 4,173 4,265 4,314 4,366 4,444 Of which, number of loan claims 041 regarding implementation 3,539 3,659 3,772 3,863 3,956 4,006 4,055 4,122 Of which, number of loan claims regarding refusal 64 73 73 74 78 79 81 86 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Of which, number of loan claims under examination 43 23 41 32 17 11 10 6 Of which, number of loan claims regarding withdrawal 189 195 200 204 214 218 220 230 *As of the end of March 2016, the figures include claims regarding trust accounts as follows. Request: 1, Implementation: 1, Refusal: 0, Under examination: 0, Withdrawal: 0 Claims regarding trust accounts refer to loan claims for which SuMi TRUST Bank received requests for restructuring of loan conditions, etc. from clients among those entrusted to SuMi TRUST Bank from other financial institutions, etc. for securitization and other purposes. SuMi TRUST Bank, a trustee, responds to them based on judgments by multiple people involved in trusts pursuant to the provisions of trust agreements. Number of Loan Claims which Requested Restructuring of Loan Conditions, etc. (In the case of housing loan clients) (Unit: case) End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of March June September December March June September March 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2016 Number of loan claims for which restructuring of loan conditions, etc. was requested 4,191 4,370 4,557 4,720 4,881 5,010 5,130 5,323 Of which, number of loan claims regarding implementation 3,425 3,577 3,729 3,878 3,995 4,087 4,179 4,319 Of which, number of loan claims regarding refusal 58 66 69 76 83 92 102 120 Of which, number of loan claims under examination 91 82 84 69 73 69 56 50 Of which, number of loan claims regarding withdrawal 617 645 675 697 730 762 793 834 *As of the end of March 2016, the figures include claims regarding trust accounts as follows. Request: 503, Implementation: 422, Refusal: 17, Under examination: 2, Withdrawal: 62 Claims regarding trust accounts refer to loan claims for which SuMi TRUST Bank received requests for restructuring of loan conditions, etc. from clients among those entrusted to SuMi TRUST Bank from other financial institutions, etc. for securitization and other purposes. SuMi TRUST Bank, a trustee, responds to them based on judgments by multiple people involved in trusts pursuant to the provisions of trust agreements. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . ESG-themed Initiatives in Our 042 Asset Management Businesses 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Of the Principles for Responsible Investment have announced their intention to accept the (PRI) signatory institutions as of December Code. We expect the trend of institutional in2016, over 1,600 are signatories to ESG investors advancing ESG initiatives as one of their vestment initiatives that take into account stewardship responsibilities to grow. environment (E), social (S), and governance Institutional Investors Announcing (G) factors and this number continues to inAcceptance of Japan’s Stewardship Code crease. PRI is leaning into initiatives aimed at (Number of institutions) growing responsible investment in Asia, and 300 announced it would focus on increasing the effectiveness of PRI signatory initiatives. 200 Amid rapid growth in ESG investment on a global scale, Japan’s Stewardship Code with 100 Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors was published in February 2014. According to 0 June Sept. Mar. Sept. Sept. a September 2016 release from Japan’s Finan2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 Source: Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors cial Services Agency, 213 institutional investors Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Asset Management at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Asset under Management With one of the largest sums of assets under managesuch as investment trusts to individuals, brings the Group’s ment (AuM) sourced in Asia, AuM at SuMi TRUST Bank’s total AuM to about ¥75 trillion. Fiduciary Services Business stands at about ¥48 trillion While Japanese public pension and corporate pension (USD 482 billion*). Moreover, adding in AuM at Nikko Asset funds comprise the great majority of our client base, our Management Co., Ltd., which primarily markets products AuM from overseas investors is growing. Asset Class USD bln Weight Other Japanese Equities S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Japanese Equities 120.9 25.1% Alternative Foreign Equities Foreign Equities 98.8 20.5% 11.2% 3.4% 25.1% Japanese Bonds 137.7 28.5% 11.3% Foreign Bonds 54.7 11.3% Alternative 16.5 3.4% 28.5% 20.5% Other 53.9 11.2% Total 482.4 100.0% Foreign Bonds Japanese Bonds *Assumed forex conversion rate of ¥101.27/US$1 is as of September 30, 2016. Source: Assets under management at SuMi TRUST Bank as of September 30, 2016. 043 Our ESG Activities as an Institutional Investor 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Our ESG Activities Policy for Engagement Framework Our Role as an Institutional Investor Our analysts perform a central role in our ESG-related We are actively taking steps to respond to various ESGengagement. Through their meetings with companies and related issues as an asset management institution that is a other coverage activities, our analysts evaluate compaPRI signatory, moving ahead with activities that are in the nies, and drawing on this knowledge, they can serve as a interest of our clients. one-stop resource on engagement, dialogue on exercising In May 2014, the SuMi TRUST Group announced its proxy votes, and research. adoption of the Japanese version of the stewardship code. This code calls on institutional investors to fulﬁll their stewardship responsibilities through purposeful engagement with management aimed at achieving higher investment returns over the medium-to-long term by encouraging companies to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value. With our analyst teams at the core of our engagement framework, we are working to properly meet our stewardship responsibilities. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Three Pillars SuMi TRUST Bank initiatives to address ESG issues in asset In April 2016, we newly established the Stewardship management comprise three different ﬁelds: engagement, Committee, which combines functions relating to the stewESG integration, and exercising proxy votes. Our compreardship activities of three former committees—the SSC hensive implementation of initiatives in these ﬁelds fosters Engagement Committee, Committee on Exercising Voting rising corporate value and sustainable growth at investee Rights, and ESG Monitoring Committee—and a stillcompanies, and we seek to increase investment returns operational one, the SRI Universe Selection Committee. over the medium and long term. SuMi TRUST Bank’s Initiatives Aimed at ESG Topics S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Engagement ESG Integration Exercising Proxy Votes Analysts seek to raise awareness on ways to Analysts evaluate investee companies based on diaExercising proxy votes is one way or means to improve management by offering opinions to logue with management-level personnel at investee send a message to management about the investee companies. companies and non-ﬁnancial information obtained state of governance. from industry analysis and other means. These evaluations are used for investment purposes. Meetings on Initiatives for ESG Topics Stewardship Committee Engagement Exercising Voting Rights ESG, PRI Response • Approves policy on stewardship activities • Approves policy on exercising voting rights • Approves ESG-related activity policy and issues activity and issues activity reports and issues activity reports reports • Examines policy for responding to PRI assessment reports • Examines ESG-related items in the investment processes of our asset management products 044 SRI Universe Selection Committee* *This committee is a stage in the investment processes of individual funds, • Selects Japanese and Chinese stock universes for our SRI funds so it remains in operation under the ambit of the Stewardship Committee. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Active Engagement in Principles for Responsible Investment Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), developed Bank became a signatory to PRI when it was established in a process convened by the United Nations (UN), calls in May 2006, devised policies in accordance with the six on institutional investors to give consideration to enviprinciples and has implemented initiatives based on the ronmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in their latest PRI-linked trends. investment decision-making processes. SuMi TRUST Principles for responsible investment Policies for incorporating PRI Examples of actions Analyze and evaluate non-financial information such as management thoroughness, We will incorporate ESG issues into investment Factored this policy into invest1 analysis and decision-making processes. strategy execution capabilities and capacity for reform with the aim of identifying imment products (Japan SRI fund) provements in or maintenance of sustainable corporate value at investee companies Engage in ways that integrate ESG issues and exercise voting rights; through these Engagement examples: 1) doWe will be active owners and incorporate ESG 2 issues into our ownership policies and practices. activities, encourage suitable initiatives that are responsive to ESG issues at investee mestic stocks; 2) cluster bombs; companies 3) palm oil We will seek appropriate disclosures on ESG isEngagement examples: 1) GRI; 3 sues by the entities in which we invest. Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues at investee companies 2) CDP (CO2, water) Served as a panelist at PRI netWe will promote acceptance and implemenActively promote engagement and awareness-raising with investee companies so work events and general share4 tation of the principles within the investment the asset management industry accepts these principles and moves to implement holder meetings and as a public industry. them speaker at universities Collaborate with investment institutions in Japan and overseas through participation Joined PRI network events, genWe will work together to enhance our effective5 ness in implementing the principles. in working groups that oversee these principles to improve effectiveness in impleeral shareholder meetings and menting them COP12 biodiversity conference We will each report on our activities and progImplement these principles; prepare and issue reports that meet the requirement Prepared annual assessment 6 ress towards implementing the principles. for signatories to disclose their activities and progress towards implementing them reports Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 The PRI assessment team evaluates reports from sigthe PRI assessment team, as shown in the table below. natories on their commitments relating to the six prinWe will from here actively strive to integrate ESG issues ciples and progress in meeting them on a scale ranging into our investment processes for ﬁxed income, where from A+ (the highest possible score) to E (lowest). SuMi we received our lowest score. TRUST Bank received a favorable overall evaluation from Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank’s assessment scores by the PRI assessment team Approach to responsible investment Listed equity investment Engagement/exercise of voting rights Fixed income A+ A+ A C *From the 2016 Assessment Report issued by PRI S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Awarded Outstanding Prize in 2016 Sustainable Finance Awards For a second successive year, SuMi TRUST Bank was awarded an outstanding prize for its ESG activities as an institutional investor in the 2016 Sustainable Finance Awards. The Research Institute for Environmental Finance (RIEF) recognizes ﬁnancial institutions that contribute to the growth of environmental ﬁnance in Japan through its annual Sustainable Finance Awards program. Yoshihiro Fujii, a visiting professor at Sophia University, is the representative director of RIEF. Activities for which SuMi TRUST Bank was recognized • Fiscal year 2015: ESG integration into active domestic equity investment • Fiscal year 2016: Global engagement activities based on international norms and rules 045 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Engagement At SuMi TRUST Bank, we believe addressing ESG topics to support efforts at investee companies to achieve sustainbuild a sustainable society is in the interests of our clients, able growth and increase their corporate value. and we actively engage investee companies on this basis. The annual number of contacts between our analysts and investee companies stands at about 9,000, encomEngagement with passing a broad range of actions from normal coverage Companies Based in Japan activities (including items relating to exercising proxy We engage with investee companies in keeping with our votes), participation in analyst meetings and company engagement guidelines. The engagement process is one tours, and management engagement. Of these, manageelement in the activities of our analysts aimed at obtaining ment engagement sessions came to about 300. a deep understanding of the business structure and sector Two cases where we engaged with investee companies environment of investee companies as our analysts work to are summarized below. Company A Dialogue overview Company B Dialogue overview We shared with a leading electric equipWe approached a major nonferrous metal comment manufacturer our view that it needs to pany with our view that it needs to take steps to make major revisions to its business strategy accelerate decision-making and make effective in light of the slumping sales of some of its use of the production bases at a joint venture products. This opened the way for a discusgiven the venture’s unfavorable earnings. We sion on the future direction of its unprofitdiscussed with the company measures it could able businesses. adopt to improve the venture’s competitiveness. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Engagement with Companies Based Overseas ESG Monitoring and Engagement SuMi TRUST Bank is an active participant in engagement activities, collaborating with other PRI signatories to address global ESG challenges. The Stewardship Committee (see page 44) monitors the status of such engagement activities. In ﬁscal year 2016, we engaged on several fronts such as participating in the PRI-sponsored Collaboration Platform* and taking part as a member in PRI working groups in the two thematic areas of water risk and problems involving tropical rainforest development like palm oil resource development. *A platform that enables signatories to engage with companies, policymakers and other S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . actors in the investment chain while sharing information with other signatories. Discussions at the PRI working group on palm oil Working with ISS-ETHIX SuMi TRUST Bank monitors the activities of investee comwith businesses allegedly causing harmful impacts. The panies from the standpoint of global norms and rules such content of these activities are reported to the Stewardship as the UN Global Compact and OECD Guidelines for Committee, enabling relevant sections to form a shared Multinational Enterprises. Since April 2016, we have broadrecognition of the problem. ened the scope of our activities using specialist services *Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a leader in proxy voting advisory services, offered by ISS-Ethix*, and started monitoring companies acquired Ethix SRI Advisors AB (renamed ISS-Ethix), a consultant offering ESG-related advisory services based in Sweden. 046 Examples of Our Involvement in Efforts to Address Global ESG Challenges 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Example 1 Engaging Palm Oil Companies Widely used in industrial goods and everyday consumer products, palm oil is reﬁned from oil derived from oil palm trees grown in plantations. Demand for palm oil is surging owing to its ease of use and the growing preference for health foods but reckless plantation development is contributing to tropical rainforest destruction and biodiversity loss. As a result, SuMi TRUST Bank is engaging plantation companies such as Company A in Malaysia regarding their development plans and methods. Moreover, SuMi TRUST Bank participated in onsite PRI-led inspections of plantations carried out in Sumatra, Indonesia (see picture). In November 2016, we took part in the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), an annual conference that was held in Bangkok, offering our views as a ﬁnancial institution. Example 2 Engaging Companies Involved with Anti-personnel Mines and Cluster Bombs The issues of anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs are being addressed on an international level and from a humanitarian point of view. These weapons disrupt the preservation of peace and stability as well as restoration and development in affected regions. The global fund management industry is increasingly acting to cut off ﬁnancial support to related companies by stopping investment in them in addition to discouraging production of these weapons. For our part, SuMi TRUST Bank encourages companies* involved in the manufacture of anti-mine personnel and cluster bombs to stop doing so through our engagement activities. Of the two expressions of intent to exit this business we have received, the most recent was an August 2016 declaration from U.S.based Company C, which follows a November 2015 letter from Singapore-based Company B. *We reference a list of companies prepared by Dutch NGO IKV Pax Christi in the report “Worldwide Investments in Cluster Munitions: a share responsibility.” Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 ESG Integration In addition to the normal schedule of ﬁnancial discloprocesses. MBIS highlights non-ﬁnancial data that often sures over the ﬁscal year, we also use ESG information does not appear in quantitative ﬁnancial information and (non-ﬁnancial information) in our process of evaluating is highly regarded as a system that backstops sustainable investee companies. corporate growth. While ﬁnancial information such as earnings reports are Reliable analysis of non-ﬁnancial information is necesimportant in the short term in evaluating companies as sary for effective engagement. We believe stronger noninvestments, we think assessments relating to the sustainﬁnancial information analytical capabilities, e.g. our MBIS able growth prospects of investee companies are imporsystem, will translate into higher quality engagement with tant over the medium and long term. senior executives at companies. As a result, with the aim of identifying ways to improve We strive to improve the quality of our evaluations through S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . and support sustainable earnings at investee companies, engagement aimed at fostering a dialogue with companies. we strive to effectively gather ESG information such as the The use of ESG ratings in investment processes is known amount of value added derived from a company’s prodas ESG integration. At SuMi TRUST Bank, ESG consideructs and services, the sustainability of that, and the resilations are factored into all of our actively managed domesience of its governance system in supporting the provision tic equity funds and some of our actively managed domestic of added value. ﬁxed-income funds* that invest in credit instruments. Management Business Investment Strategy (MBIS) is The way ESG ratings are applied, however, differs the in-house developed system for concrete application according to the investment style of each individual fund. of non-ﬁnancial information analytics in our investment *Total AuM in domestic active fixed-income at SuMi Trust Bank is ¥2.4 trillion. Engagement Investment Type of EngageEvaluations (output) fund Horizon ment 047 Long-term Hands-on Focal points Outsource (3-5 years) type*1 SuMi TRUST Bank In-house Opportunity assessment 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Client value Engagement (Added value sought by clients) G Im en pro Sustainable growth ESG Mediumto ga ve Management, prospects information long-term ge as business base, Levers/influence to ensure evaluation Monitoring me se client value takes root (2-3 years) type*2 etc. nt ssm Risk assessment ac en S Risks to sustainable tiv ts itie via Non-financial growth prospects Es information (Reports of misconduct, etc.) Earnings forecasts, Short-term Financial information Projected cash flows investment recom(1 year) mendation E: Environmental *1 A hands-on engagement-type approach seeks to secure a commitment from investee companies to implement business growth measures, etc. S: Social *2 A monitoring-type approach seeks to support independent management decision-making at investee companies via debate G: Governance on share price impacts, etc. from improving IR activities and rebalancing business portfolios. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Overview of Investment Strategies at our Flagship Japanese Equity RI Funds Investment Strategy at SRI Fund, our Flagship Japanese Equity RI Fund SRI Fund, our ﬂagship RI fund for Japanese stocks, is one of 3. SMTB’s Portfolio Managers Choose Stocks the oldest responsible investment funds in Japan, having Our portfolio managers choose stocks from among our RI been managed since 2003. Its stock selection focuses on universe based on 1) our assessment of the growth prosESG, and the degree of contribution of these to improvepects of prospective investee companies stemming from ment in ﬁnancial returns. Distinguishing features are the their ESG initiatives, and 2) equity valuation and earninsights of our RI fund management team along with basic ings momentum derived from the earnings forecasts of research by The Japan Research Institute. our Japanese stock analyst teams. We seek to achieve an excess return versus the benchmark TOPIX. 1. The Japan Research Institute Chooses “Best-in-class” S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . for RI Universe The Japan Research Institute, one of the most inﬂuential Investment Management Process think tanks in Japan, conducts a survey covering 2,000 companies to select “best-in-class” companies as candiUniverse Approx. 3,500 dates for the RI universe. JRI Survey (All listed equities) The evaluation criteria consist of E (environment), S • High-quality ESG Step1 JRI’s Universe (social), G (governance) and V (Value). V has been adopted survey Approx. 2,000 as a new criterion from ﬁscal year 2013 to evaluate the conScreening tribution of ESG initiatives to a company’s business growth. • JRI survey information Step2 Responsible • Credit risk Investment Universe Approx. 400 2. SMTB’s Investment Team Selects Our RI Universe Portfolio Construction Candidates • ESG evaluation Step3 Portfolio Risk control and • Valuation of stocks 50-100 monitoring We exclude companies with high credit risks from The Japan Research Institute list of RI candidates. A monthly commitSource: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Ltd. (as of September 30, 2016) 048 tee, chaired by the General Manager of Equity Investment JRI: The Japan Research Institute Department, decides candidate stocks for our RI universe. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Performance of Our SRI Fund (%) (Points) 25 2,500 The chart below shows the cumulative excess return ratio and 20 TOPIX (Right) 2,000 TOPIX return since the launch of the flagship RI fund. The Japanese 15 1,500 stock market fared well in the years after the Abe administration 10 1,000 took the helm at the end of 2012 but it has shifted since sum5 500 mer 2015 to a correction phase. We expect the market trend from 0 0 here to be underpinned by such positives as corporate earnings improvement and government-sponsored capital market reforms. -5 -500 Excess return ratio (Left) In addition, we think the environment will remain favorable for this -10 -1,000 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 fund amid growing ESG awareness among Japanese companies. Aug. Set. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our RI Investment Trusts SRI Japan Open (Good Company) China Good Company The Group launched Japan’s ﬁrst RI Fund aimed at corThe “China Good Company” fund is a RI Fund that porate pension funds in 2003 (ﬂagship RI fund). Using applies the same methodology as the Japanese ﬂagthe same responsible investment (RI) approach, the ship RI fund to Chinese stocks. The fund is attract“Good Company” mutual fund is marketed to a wide ing the attention of US and European investors as the variety of investors, including individuals, and is now world’s ﬁrst Chinese RI fund developed by an investregarded as one of Japan’s standard-setting RI funds. ment manager not owned by a Chinese ﬁnancial instiThe Good Company fund strictly screens for and invests tution (established in 2010). For stock selection, we S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . in companies with proactive ESG initiatives aimed at draw on the Japan Research Institute’s ESG surveys and enhancing corporate value. It aims to achieve excess research, and we are working to build a structure to returns compared to the performance of its benchmark, gather any negative information about target compathe Tokyo Stock Price Index. nies in a timely manner. Investment Manager Investment Manager Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust 049 Asset Management Asset Management 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t World Bank Bond Fund Biodiversity Fund for Supporting Companies Nikko Asset Management, a group company, develBiodiversity refers to “a wide range of species and oped this fund together with the World Bank. More creatures” and “the connections among them.” The than 30% of its portfolio is in green bonds, a ﬁxed Biodiversity Fund for Supporting Companies invests in income instrument issued by the World Bank. Funds Japanese companies that actively commit themselves raised with green bonds are in principle used for lendto biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of ing to projects that address climate change in developbiodiversity-reliant resources using the family fund ing countries. This fund is thus recognized globally as a method. SuMi TRUST Bank is an advisor on managefund through which its investors can feel they are makment of the mother fund. Few US and European investing a social contribution. ment funds focus on biodiversity, so this fund is attracting attention in the global investment community. Investment Manager Investment Manager Nikko Asset Management Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Exercising Proxy Votes As one of the stewardship responsibilities ascribed to We thus believe companies ought to build healthy corpoinstitutional investors, SuMi TRUST Bank exercises proxy rate governance systems that respect shareholder interests votes in the interest of encouraging sustainable growth at by encouraging management to use shareholder capital efﬁinvestee companies. ciently and actively disclose information to stakeholders. As a result, as long as investee companies are not involved in antiBasic Policy on Exercising Proxy Votes social actions and shareholder interests are not neglected, Our view of corporate governance is premised on the belief our default posture is to defer to management judgment. that management policies and decision-making at comIn the event, investee companies or members of their manpanies ought to reﬂect not just the wishes of shareholdagement become involved in misconduct or anti-social actions, ers but should also take into account the interests of many and we regard the matter to be a serious problem in terms of S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . other stakeholders such as employees, creditors, and supcorporate governance, we will exercise our proxy votes in a pliers, and be determined after coordinating their interests. way that promotes improvements to corporate governance. System for the Exercise of Proxy Votes for Japanese Stocks Person with Authority to Exercise Proxy Votes: Director of Fiduciary Services Business (1)Establishment of guidelines (b) Approval (b) Drafting a (c) Approval General Manager, (a) Drafting proposed Fiduciary Business Planning Department proposed plan for each guidelines individual vote (2) Exercise based on (a) Drafting a prothe guidelines Stewardship Committee posed plan for (Secretariat: Fiduciary Business Planning Department) each individual (b) Decision (4) Periodic reports on record of proxy votes exercised vote (a) Deliberation Drafting and close examination of plans for exercise of voting rights (3) In cases where there are no applicable rules in the guidelines Investment Research Department 050 Instructions for the exercise of voting rights Fiduciary Services Department 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Custody bank Record of Proxy Votes Exercised by Category of Proposal Our record on proxy votes exercised for shares of Japangeneral meetings of shareholders from July 2015 through based companies in conjunction with their convening of June 2016 is as follows. 1. Proposals Made by Investee Companies Approving votes Dissenting votes Non-exercise Blind trust Total Appropriation of surplus, etc. 1,452 49 1 0 1,502 Appointment of directors 1,845 547 1 0 2,393 Appointment of corporate auditors 1,429 231 1 0 1,661 Partial amendment to Articles of Incorporation 868 14 1 0 883 Payment of retirement benefits 141 120 0 0 261 Revision of compensation for officers 1,003 21 0 0 1,024 Issuance of share warrants 114 50 0 0 164 Appointment of accounting auditors 43 0 0 0 43 Matters related to reorganization strategies*1 40 0 0 0 40 Other proposals by the company*2 212 44 1 0 257 Of those related to measures to deflect hostile takeovers, etc. 70 44 0 0 114 Total 7,147 1,076 5 0 8,228 *1 Merger, transfer or acquisition of business, share exchange, share transfer, company split, etc. *2 Share buyback of own stock, reduction of statutory reserve, capital increase by allocation of new shares to third parties, capital reduction, consolidation of shares, measures to deﬂect hostile takeovers, etc. 2. Proposals Made by Shareholders Approving votes Dissenting votes Abstention Blind trust Total Total 3 153 0 0 156 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Real Estate 051 Businesses 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Amid a growing sense of crisis about global A growing sense of crisis about global environmental problems environmental problems, environmental conGlobal warming, threats to biodiversity, water scarcity & resource depletion sideration has become necessary in real estate to realize a sustainable society. Imperative to develop sustainable societies Environmentally friendly property takes the Growing eco-awareness, stricter regulations, seen as de rigueur by investors, tenants, etc. environment into account and is well managed for high environmental performance. Environmentally friendly property The Group believes environmentally friendly Properties with high environmental value that are well managed for high environmental performance properties can generate more value added High environmental performance Prospects for value added than conventional properties through features • Energy conservation, CO2 reduction • Lower utility costs such as high environmental performance that • Renewable energy adoption • Healthier, more comfortable • Greater efﬁciency in water and • Lower environmental-response reduce risk and enhance income. resource use risk • Recycling and reuse of materials, • Lower market risk continuity in emergencies • Restoration of biodiversity Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Why is Environmentally Friendly Property Necessary Now? The Paris Agreement was adopted in December 2015 insurers, and brokerages, are working together to integrate at the 21st Conference of Parties (COP21) to the United ESG risks into ﬁnancial system functions. In 2015, Japan’s Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) became (UNFCCC), and came into effect in November 2016. As a a PRI signatory, a notable step for PRI’s acceptance. The ratifying nation, Japan is expected to bolster its environSuMi TRUST Group has been a signatory to PRI and UNEP mental regulations. FI since their launch. On the domestic policy front, new non-residential buildUsed for investment decision-making, Global Real ings with ﬂoor space of 2,000m2 or more will need to comEstate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) was created in ply with energy saving standards under the Building Energy 2009, mainly for a group of large pension funds in Europe, Efﬁciency Act (publicly issued in 2015) when the law comes to measure sustainability performance in the real estate S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . into force in April 2017. Meanwhile, there has been progsector. In 2016, 43 companies in Japan participated in the ress in improving and broadening programs that offer govGRESB assessment. Of those, 30 were real estate investernment subsidies for projects with high environmental ment trusts (REITs) that together comprise about 78% of performance such as the “leading projects” program for susJapan’s total REIT market capitalization. tainable buildings. In 2015, more than 200 institutions in Japan’s asset Global investment and ﬁnancial centers recognize management and ﬁnance sector announced their adopthat addressing global environmental problems is essention of Japan’s Stewardship Code, which spells out printial. More than 1,500 institutions in the United States and ciples for responsible institutional investors. The Corporate Europe have become signatories to the Principles for Governance Code, which includes principles to encourage Responsible Investment (PRI), a United Nations-led global listed companies to respond to sustainability concerns, also platform for investment that factors in environmental, took effect as an attachment to the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s social, and governance (ESG) issues, since its launch in securities listing requirement. 2006. Under the United Nations Environment Programme For real estate, there is a growing emphasis on environFinance Initiative (UNEP FI), more than 200 ﬁnancial instimental considerations. 052 tutions based in Japan and overseas, including banks, 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t A growing emphasis on environmental considerations in real estate International conventions Global investment & financial centers • United Nations Framework Convention on • PRI, UNEP FI Climate Change (UNFCCC) > Promotes investment and finance that fac• Paris Agreement, other pacts tors in ESG • GRESB > A benchmark is used for real estate-related investment decisions Japanese government policies Domestic investment & financial centers • Building Energy Efficiency Act • Japan’s Stewardship Code > Bolsters environment-related regulations > More than 200 institutions have an• “Leading projects” program for sustainable nounced adoption buildings, etc. • Corporate Governance Code > Supports property with high environmen> Principles to encourage listed companies tal performance to respond to sustainability concerns Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Added Value of Environmentally Friendly Property 1. Added Value Derives from Property Profitability It is often said environmental friendly property “costs more income by reducing utility expenses via energy savings and than usual and is difﬁcult to invest in,” but price theory in maintenance and operating expenses via the enhanced real estate investment suggests such buildings are able to durability of parts and materials. Furthermore, such buildgenerate added value equal to or greater than their addiings can also generate higher gross income on higher tional cost. rents stemming from higher productivity enabled by their From the perspective of proﬁtability (how much and enhanced ofﬁce environments and the cachet boost from how long do properties generate steady proﬁts), a proptheir environmental credentials. erty’s price derives from net income (revenue minus costs) Furthermore, environmentally friendly property is less S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . divided by the real estate capitalization rate. The greater exposed to future environment-related tax hikes or tougher gross income including rents is, and the lower the costs of regulations, so the capitalization rate for such buildings utilities, maintenance, and building management are, the factors in less environmental risk. A lower depreciation higher net income is, and so the higher the valuation of rate resulting from a longer life span as well as enhanced a property. In addition, stable properties with less income appeal as environmentally friendly can also lower the capiﬂuctuation risk are awarded higher valuations as investors talization rate. require a lower yield from them. For the reasons above, SuMi TRUST Bank believes that Environmentally friendly property can earn higher net environmentally friendly property will realize added value. Conceptual Diagram of Environmental Added Value (1) Prices Focused on the “Profitability” of Real Estate Prices focused on the “profitability” of real estate 053 the net income generated by real estate Environmental added value The price of real estate*= the real estate capitalization rate * In the case of direct capitalization I Contribution from higher net income 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t II Contribution from lower Environmentally conscious measures Benefits of environmentally conscious measures Reduction of utilities and other costs capitalization rate Energy conservation design Avoidance of toxic substances Increase in rental income and sales Preservation and creation of biological environments Reduction of the depreciation ratio Reduction of risk of declining income Longer building lifespans, recycling of building materials Becoming a landmark etc. etc. Conceptual Diagram of Environmental Added Value (2) Conceptual Diagram of Environmental Added Value (3) Reflection in Net Income Reflection in Capitalization Rate Risk premium on environmentally friendly property Ordinary risk premium on real estate Net Income from Net income increases Net income of Environmental Gross income from real estate environmentally Real estate capitalization rate Net Income from Real Estate further if gross income Environmental increases through Risk friendly property Real Estate Added Value Environmental improvement of fluctuates less due to Taxes and Added Value productivity and image future tax raises and Environmental tighter regulations Ordinary real estate cost Public Dues Taxes and Depreciation Ratio Risk Public Dues Net income Lowers depreciation Repair Cost increases Depreciation Ratio (before depreciation) Repair Cost Market Risk ratio through Maintenance Market Risk extended property Management Maintenance Reduces through Business Risk lifespan Management enhanced durability Business Risk Improves image Utilities Cost Other Risks Other Risks Utilities Cost Reduces through through environenergy savings ment-consciousness General Financial General Financial Other Expenses Other Expenses Asset Yield Asset Yield Source: Partial revision of “A Note on Environmental Value Added for Real Estate,” a commemorative paper written by Masato Ito in 2005 for the 10th anniversary of Tokyo Association of Real Estate Appraisers Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2. Helping to Make Added Value Noticeable Study on Economic Impact of Buildings with CASBEE Evaluations Given the paucity of research in Japan showing a correlaetc.) or applications were about 3.6% higher. This sugtion between the environmental performance of buildings gests each point in the CASBEE scoring system (adjusted and economic beneﬁts, SuMi TRUST Bank implemented a so 100 points is the maximum score) equates to a marstudy into the economic impact of buildings with CASBEE ket rent 0.5% higher than the average. These results were evaluations as the leader of a working group examinannounced at symposiums, the Architecture Institute of ing economic beneﬁts under the aegis of the Japan Japan convention, and other events. Sustainable Building Consortium’s Smart Wellness Ofﬁce Research Committee. The study analyzed buildCorrelation between CASBEE Score and Market Rents ings with CASBEE certiﬁcation and non(Single regression analysis) evaluated buildings and found average S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . market rents in buildings with CASBEE C B B+ A S 45,000 certiﬁcations (or CASBEE applications, 40,000 (Estimated yen rent per 3.3 m2) 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 40.0 50.0 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 (Scores of building population) 054 Source: Data is from a fiscal year 2014 report issued by Japan Sustainable Building Consortium’s Smart Wellness Office Research Committee. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Comparison of average rents: Yen per 3.3 m2 Tokyo’s 23 wards Yokohama Nagoya Osaka 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 24,701 15,553 13,961 11,286 12,980 9,660 14,976 8,707 0 CASBEE Total Tokyo CASBEE Total CASBEE Total CASBEE Total buildings 23-ward buildings urban buildings urban buildings urban sample sample sample sample Source: Data is from a fiscal year 2014 report issued by Japan Sustainable Building Consortium’s Smart Wellness Office Research Committee. Summary of Multiple Regression Analysis Results for CASBEE Buildings CASBEE evaluations, etc. Sample size Coefficients Differential in average rent CASBEE flag (whether or not buildings have CASBEE evaluations) 517 564.160 +3.64% CASBEE rank (five-level evaluation rankings) 517 263.525 +1.70% CASBEE score (evaluation score with a maximum score of 100) 183 78.974 +0.46% Service performance (Q2) score 183 1702.667 +9.9% Intellectual productivity evaluation 180 319.318 +1.86% Source: Data is from a fiscal year 2014 report issued by Japan Sustainable Building Consortium’s Smart Wellness Office Research Committee. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Environmentally Friendly Property Initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank has made many recommendations as property management. We have harnessed this wealth related to environmentally friendly property since the 2005 of experience to develop a diverse menu relating to envirelease of an employee-authored paper about the added ronmentally friendly real estate, including consulting servalue created by such buildings. vices on environmentally friendly construction. In 2010, we Easy-to-understand indicators of environmental perbecame the ﬁrst Japanese ﬁnancial institution to establish formance and the attendant value added are especially a section dedicated to environmentally friendly property. important as a way to recommend environmentally friendly We are working to realize a sustainable society by bringproperty. In view of this, the CASBEE Research Committee ing environmentally friendly property into the mainstream launched the “CASBEE for Real Estate*” certiﬁcation sysand linking it to business sustainability. This is one of our tem in 2013 to promote widespread use of environmental missions as a leading company in the environmentally S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . evaluations in real estate. friendly property market. In terms of services, SuMi TRUST Bank became the *The comprehensive assessment system for built environment efficiency (CASBEE) cerﬁrst bank in Japan to develop a land trust product in the tification is an environmental performance evaluation system for buildings that is being developed and promoted in Japan by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport 1980s, and we have since then been involved in developand Tourism (MLIT). CASBEE for Real Estate (the name was changed from “CASBEE for Market Promotion” in November 2014) has fewer evaluation items but maintains consising buildings, condominiums and other real estate as well tency with CASBEE® Standard Version. Our Website on Environmentally Friendly Property A variety of information on environmentally friendly property is available in the special features section of our CSR activities website. For further details, please refer to: http://www.smtb.jp/csr/real-estate/ 055 Main Activities of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Start Initiatives in Real Estate Appraisal and Evaluation •Oct. 2005 Awarded grand prize for 10th anniversary essay •From Oct. 2007 Chair of a working group on environmental added “A Note on Environmental Value Added for Real value, Japan Association of Real Estate Appraisers Estate” by the Tokyo Association of Real Estate May 2009 Published “Prices for Environmentally Sound Properties to Appraisers Climb,” JUTAKU-SHIMPO-SHA Proposed ideas to ensure environmental efforts are reflected in real estate value Initiatives with National and Regional Governments •From Nov. 2008 Member of and advisor to a MLIT-led study group Organizing Study Groups on the status of property markets focused on envi•From Mar. 2007 Organized sustainable real estate study group ronmental value June 2009 Published “Sustainable Properties—Prediction from Multi•From Nov. 2011 Member of MLIT-sponsored environmentally friendly Stakeholders’ Activities” property panel April 2015 Released results of a Trust Forum Foundation study “Added Apr. 2012 “Proposals for Environmentally Friendly Property,” released Value of Sustainable Real Estate and Promoting Adoption by the same panel as a Business” •From Feb. 2012 Member of a study group on environmental invest•From May 2013 Hosted meetings of the smart city study group ment in low carbon buildings organized by Tokyo March 2016 Released results of Trust Forum Foundation-sponsored Bureau of Environment “Smart City Study Group Report: Towards Constructing Apr. 2012 “Toward the Spread of Low Carbon Buildings via the Real Evaluation Metrics for Smart Cities” Estate Market,” released by the same study group Initiatives Linked to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) •From Apr. 2012 Member of expert evaluation committee for the MLIT-led “leading projects” program for sustain•From June 2007 Member of the UNEP FI property working group able buildings* Promoted and raised awareness about responsible property investment (RPI); published a collection •From Apr. 2012 Member of MLIT-sponsored study committee on of case studies and a handbook the promotion and spread of environmentally friendly property CASBEE-related Initiatives Feb. 2016 Supported publication of “Guide on Green Leases” •From July 2007 Current organizer of subcommittee examining •From Apr. 2014 Member of the Smart Wellness Office Research ComCASBEE property appraisal mittee of the Japan Sustainable Building Consortium July 2013 Commenced CASBEE certiﬁcation system for real estate Feb. 2015 Announced results of a study on the economic impact of CASBEE evaluations on buildings at a Smart Wellness Ofﬁce-sponsored symposium * We are not involved in evaluating projects in cases where we advise clients regarding the MLIT-led “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings (see page 59). Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Business Lineup in Environmentally Friendly Property 1. Environmentally Friendly Construction Consulting To promote the introduction of environmentally friendly providing notiﬁcation of self-evaluation in the past several years. property, SuMi TRUST Bank provides environmentally In addition, some projects have been selected by the Ministry of friendly construction consulting services where we advise on Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) for the “leadthe installation of energy-saving systems in buildings, ways to ing projects” program for sustainable buildings (see page 59) take into account landscapes and ecosystems, extension of and by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) for building life spans, and adoption of recycling systems. the “net zero energy building” proof-of-concept pilot program. As interest in environmental issues has grown, so has the *The comprehensive assessment system for built environment efficiency (CASBEE) certinumber of properties applying for CASBEE® certiﬁcation* or fication is an environmental performance evaluation system for buildings being develS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . oped and promoted in Japan under the guidance of MLIT. Examples: Environmentally Friendly Construction Consulting Company Name Location Use Number of Floors Floor Area Target Rank Headquarters ofﬁce Clarion Saitama Prefecture 10 ﬂoors above ground, 1 rooftop ﬂoor Approx. 19,000 m2 A (certiﬁcation completed) and research center Yachiyo Bank Tokyo Central branch*1 9 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 7,700 m2 S (certiﬁcation completed) Tokyo Central branch 1 basement ﬂoor, 9 ﬂoors above ground, 2 rooftop ﬂoors Approx. 6,000 m2 A (self-evaluation) Chuo Labour Bank Kanagawa Prefecture Ofﬁce 1 basement ﬂoor, 7 ﬂoors above ground, 1 rooftop ﬂoor Approx. 10,000 m2 B+ (notiﬁcation) AEON MALL Tokyo Commercial facility 5 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 150,000 m2 A (certiﬁcation completed) FUJI Ehime Prefecture Commercial facility 3 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 140,000 m2 B+ (certiﬁcation completed) Ito-Yokado Kanagawa Prefecture Commercial facility 4 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 29,000 m2 B+ (notiﬁcation) *1 Toyo Seikan Group Holdings Tokyo Ofﬁce 2 basement ﬂoors, 21 ﬂoors above ground, 1 rooftop ﬂoor Approx. 72,400 m2 S (certiﬁcation completed) 056 Daikin Industries Osaka Prefecture Ofﬁce, R&D facility*1 1 basement ﬂoor, 6 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 48,000 m2 S (self-evaluation) Hiroshima Mazda Hiroshima Prefecture Ofﬁce*1 Renovation project for existing building 2 Anritsu Kanagawa Prefecture Ofﬁce* 7 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 28,000 m2 S (self-evaluation) 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Shimane Bank Shimane Prefecture Central branch*1 1 basement ﬂoor and 13 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 12,000 m2 S (self-evaluation) *1 Selected for the MLIT-led “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings. *2 Selected for the METI-led “net zero energy building” experimental pilot program. Case Study A Shimane Bank’s New Head Office The new head ofﬁce building for Shimane Bank, a project commenced around the hundredth anniversary of its founding, has an energy-saving design and selfsupporting systems for emergencies that bolster local disaster-response capabilities. A plank in the “GREEN BANK Shimagin Project,” the building symbolizes the bank’s contribution to efforts to create a low-carbon regional economy and bolster local disaster preparedness. The appearance control system realizes ideal visual environments through a combination of lighting controls for brightness, exterior louvers and controls for window blinds; the energy-saving air conditioning system is optimized for the climate of a region facing the Sea of Japan with “eco-voids,” natural ventilation chimneys, at “twin corners” of the building that create an updraft from natural wind pressure; and the “Green Plaza” initiative includes the use of digital signage to display energy consumption paired with a building energy management system (BEMS). Self-supporting systems that enhance disaster-response capabilities have been built into the building so that it contributes to creating a disaster-resilient community where the lighting always stays on and information is never cut off. (Selected for the “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings; this was formerly known as the 2014 No. 1 “leading projects for promoting CO2 reduction” program for housing and buildings) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2. Consulting to Support Applications for “CASBEE for Real Estate” Certification Initiatives related to CASBEE for Real Estate CASBEE for Real Estate is a system developed in 2012 for CASBEE for Real Estate can also use the GRESB study the purpose of promoting widespread use of environmental (see page 52) (2013-2016 results), so use of this certiﬁcation building performance evaluations in the real estate market. is spreading, especially among REITs and real estate comWhile maintaining consistency with CASBEE certiﬁcations panies that are sensitive to sustainability concerns. for buildings to date such those as for new construction SuMi TRUST Bank is a participant in developing CASBEE and existing buildings, CASBEE for Real Estate sharply narfor Real Estate as an organizer of the subcommittee for rows down evaluation items and takes into account conCASBEE property appraisal, which is sponsored by the sistency with environmental performance items that are Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation. focused on overseas. Table Evaluation Items in CASBEE for Real Estate (In the case of office buildings) S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Energy/ Target setting and monitoring/energy saving standards/O&M*3 system, usage and emissions intensity (calculated Greenhouse gases values), usage and emissions intensity (actual values), natural energy forms Water Target setting and monitoring/O&M system, water usage volume (calculated values), water usage volume (results) Conforms to new earthquake resistance standards, high earthquake resistance/seismic isolation and vibration dampUse of resources/ ing, etc., usage of recycled materials, service life of structure materials, necessary renewal interval for main equipment Safety functions, higher self-sufﬁciency ratio (electricity, etc.), operation and maintenance Biodiversity/ No use of invasive alien species, enhancement of biodiversity, soil environment quality/regeneration of brownﬁelds, Sustainable site public transportation access, measures in preparation for natural disaster risks Attainment of building sanitation and environmental management standards, use of daylight, natural ventilation Indoor environment function, view *1 Underlined items are prerequisites (they must be met to pass an evaluation). *2 Items in red are related to universal metrics the United Nations Environment Programme’s Sustainable Buildings and Climate Initiative (UNEP SBCI) is studying. *3 O&M: operation and maintenance 057 Consulting to Support Applications for CASBEE for Real Estate Certification 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t SuMi TRUST Bank engages in consulting services to support applications for the CASBEE for Real Estate certiﬁcation. CASBEE accredited professionals with the proper qualiﬁcation support the selection of real estate applying for certiﬁcation while also evaluating the environmental performance of real estate and supporting the submission of applications for certiﬁcation to certifying bodies. Proposals for Improving Problem Discovery via CASBEE for Real Estate SuMi TRUST Bank offers proposals on initiatives that work in concert with CASBEE for Real Estate evaluations to identify problems and suggest improvements aimed at bolstering environmental performance. We will continue to provide services that use the CASBEE system in our business promoting environmentally friendly property. A CASBEE evaluation sheet Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Examples: Consulting to Support Applications for CASBEE for Real Estate Certification 1 Owner Property Rank Certification date 1 Aeon Mall Musashi Murayama S 2/27/2015 JRF REIT*1 2 Higashi-Totsuka Aurora City S 2/27/2015 3 Aeon Tobata Shopping Center S 2/29/2016 4 Premier Kaigan Bldg. A 8/7/2015 2 Premier REIT*2 5 Takadanobaba Center Bldg. A 8/7/2015 6 Urbannet Ichigaya Bldg. A 3/17/2016 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 7 A-PLACE Ebisu Minami S 3/17/2016 Activia Properties REIT*3 8 Market Square Sagamihara S 5/31/2016 9 Luogo Shiodome S 3/17/2016 Tosei Corp. 10 Toranomon Tosei Bldg. A 9/26/2015 3 11 Isetan Shinjuku Main Store S 3/4/2016 Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings 12 Mitsukoshi Ginza Store S 3/4/2016 13 Mitsukoshi Nihombashi Main Store S 3/4/2016 *1 JRF: Japan Retail Fund Investment Corp. *2 Premier REIT: Premier Investment Corp. *3 Activia Properties Inc. 058 4 6 9 11 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 7 12 5 10 8 13 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3. Assistance to Help Subsidy Applicants Qualify What is the “Leading Projects” Program for Sustainable Buildings? Leading projects (construction and renovation projects) trended in the range of 200 million yen. that show outstanding initiative in CO2 reduction can apply Recipient projects are announced by MLIT and published to a MLIT-led public subsidy program. on the Building Research Institute website. Recipients are The program grants subsidies up to one half of the given an opportunity to present their projects at the time budget for construction and other costs of pioneering of selection as well as post-completion. initiatives. The average per-project subsidy (budget) has “Leading Projects” Program*1 for Sustainable Buildings: Number of Applications, Recipients, and Budget Amounts Fiscal year Applications Recipients Budget 2008 155 20 5 billion yen S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 2009 84 33 7 billion yen 2010 91 27 Included in 33 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2 2011* 74 24 Included in 16 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2012 92 25 Included in 17 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2013 42 21 Included in 17 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2014 28 17 Included in 22 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2015 37 21 Included in 6.1 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate *1 Projects that promote CO2 reduction *2 Figures for fiscal year 2011 exclude the third round, a section for specified disaster-afflicted zones. (Source: MLIT) Our Initiatives Involving the “Leading Projects” Program for Sustainable Buildings 059 SuMi TRUST Bank also provides consulting services to assist program for sustainable buildings. in preparing proposal applications with project selling *Our consulting service does not guarantee applicants will be granted subsidies under points and highlights for the MLIT-led “leading projects” the “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Case Study B Toranomon 2-10 Project Hotel Okura Tokyo’s main building, which opened in 1962, will be redeveloped with new functions as part of a project that will include ofﬁce space suitable for a global business hub. The project’s multiple towers will be powered with an efﬁcient energy system that achieves area-wide and 3D linkages, while the district-wide development scale enables us to create open green spaces that form cool spots and wind corridors and connect with green networks of neighboring districts. In conjunction with other large redevelopment projects underway at adjacent sites, the project will contain complementary functions to bolster local disaster preparedness. (Selected for the 2015 No. 2 “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 4. Making the Value of Smart Towns and Cities Visible, Supporting Development Policies Developing smart towns and cities that adopt nextTo realize smart towns and cities, it is necessary to create generation “smart community*” social systems at the local economic value added commensurate with higher costs level is an important step from the standpoint of regional while establishing clear targets from the basic planning development. In the past few years, these towns and cities stage onward for environmental, social, and governance have combined a series of complex reforms from changes (ESG) issues for the city or town. to citizen lifestyles and local transportation systems to the SuMi TRUST Bank supports projects for smart towns and introduction of area energy networks, including the recapcities on many fronts such as devising frameworks that link ture of heat and unused energy, to go together with effecvarious initiatives on environmental contributions etc. to tive use of electricity. economic value added and formulating project concepts. *See METI’s website for details. Through our provision of ﬁnancial functions such as home mortgages, we also help projects get executed. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Concept Diagram for Making the Value of Smart Towns Noticeable Creation of Environmental Town Goals Initiatives to Achieve Goals Real Estate Value Environmental goals Plan for district landscape, sunlight and Reduce energy use (rate) ventilation Reduce utility costs Reduce potable water use (rate) Solar power cells, fuel cells Reduce operation and management costs Improve resource reuse (rate) High-efficiency facilities, home energy Create safe, comfortable and healthy living Protect and restore natural resources management systems (HEMS) environment ⁝ Storage batteries, emergency-use power Reduce risks from disasters and blackouts Safety and soundness goals generators No. days with lifeline provisions secured in Lower interest rates on home mortgages case of emergencies Security (district-wide, individual buildings) ⁝ ⁝ ⁝ 060 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Case Study C Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town The “Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town” is a project currently being carried out by Panasonic Corporation at the former site of Panasonic’s Fujisawa factory. Panasonic Corporation, Fujisawa City, and eleven partner companies, including SuMi TRUST Bank, are collaborating to promote the project, which marked the town’s opening in spring 2014. SuMi TRUST Bank is participating in various ways, such as designing smart town evaluation indicators (environmentally friendly property values) and creating project-speciﬁc product plans for environmentally friendly housing loans. This project is also praised for its community-wide comprehensive CO2 reduction efforts together with town management. It was selected for subsidies under the MLIT-led “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings (2013 No. 1 round). Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 2 Serve Clients with Sincerity S u m i t om o Mi tsu t su i Tru Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . • We strive to provide in-depth explanations and proposals so that clients can fully understand the details of our products and services. In addition, wee make a ee efforts o ts to qu c y meet quickly eet tthe demands e de of a ds o clients and link their feedback to business improvements and product and service enhancement. • We strive to undertake meticulous management of client information. • We engage in educational and awareness-raising activities by cooperating with educational institutions, government authorities, NPOs, etc., to enable clients to take the lead in rationally selecting financial products and building sound assets. 061 2 0 16 1 6 C S R Re po port Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Earn the Trust of Clients In recent years, there has been a pressing need for financial institutions to put principled customer service at the heart of everything they do. The Group considers serving clients with sincerity as a financial institution founded on its fiduciary spirit as one of the highest priorities on its materiality map. We explain our initiatives below from four perspectives: initiatives S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . concerning fiduciary duty, client protection management, efforts to enhance customer satisfaction, and delivery of reliable financial products and services. Initiatives regarding Fiduciary Duty The SuMi TRUST Group has established, as its corporate of Conduct (Values), which include the imperative to be ideal (Vision), that “based on the ‘Fiduciary Spirit’ and with ‘Completely Client-oriented,’ and the Group has striven signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the to put its ﬁduciary duties into practice. Amid even greater 062 Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new busipressure for customer-oriented initiatives in the past few ness model, combining its banking, asset management and years at ﬁnancial institutions, the Group has added more administration, and real estate businesses.” This is based speciﬁcs to its Codes of Conduct (Values) and announced on the management principle that it will “adhere to the in September 2016 a set of policies regarding ﬁduciary 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t principles of sound management based on a high degree duties it established to provide products and services that of self-discipline with the background of ‘Fiduciary Spirit’ serve the best interests of its clients. For speciﬁcs, please and establish strong credibility from society” (Mission). To go to our website. this end, its executives and employees share in the Codes http://smth.jp/en/about_us/philosophy/fiduciaryduty/index.html Group Policies regarding Fiduciary Duties: Principles for Action 1.Implementation of a client-oriented approach to consulting • Through measures such as training of executives and employees and supand the provision of information port for the acquisition of specialist qualiﬁcations, we will increase knowl• In order to provide products and services that serve the best interests edge and specialist skills about market conditions, products and services. of our clients, we will strive, through high-quality consulting, to gain a 4.Provision of financial services that leverage the diverse funcshared understanding of the asset and liability situation of our clients, tions of the trust bank group which will change with their lifecycle, and their corresponding needs. • As a trust bank group, while remaining thoroughly attentive to conﬂict of • To assist in our clients’ investment decisions, we will strive to provide easyinterest management, we will fully mobilize our diverse and ﬂexible functo-understand explanations about product characteristics, risks, and fees, tions, such as the banking business, asset management and administraand to take proper action that ﬁts with our clients’ understanding. tion business, real estate business, and quickly and accurately provide 2.Development and provision of products and services that optimal and comprehensive solutions for our clients, whether they are meet the diverse needs of our clients individuals or corporations. • In order to meet the diverse needs of our clients, we will make available 5.Client comfort and satisfaction, and contribution to the a broad-range of high-quality products and services that accord with the economy and society needs of our clients based on the various voices and opinions of our cli• As well as providing products and services that bring comfort and satisents and through activities such as cooperation and joint-development faction to our clients, we will contribute to the economy and society by of products and services with a broad-range of asset management comutilizing our investment functions, and through the generation of new panies and insurance companies. products and services that respond to structural changes to the econ3.Enhancement of our client-oriented focus and expertise omy and society. • Through training and discussion at each Group company, we aim for • To enable clients to independently and rationally select ﬁnancial prodthorough penetration of decisions and practices that are based on ucts, and engage in sound asset building, we will pursue activities in Group policies on ﬁduciary duty. connection with improvement of ﬁnancial education and literacy. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 1. Basic Policy We believe that to put into practice our ﬁduciary duties, it sales, asset administration, asset preservation that must is of prime importance that our consulting services are a meet our clients’ needs in step with structural changes to source of signiﬁcant expertise that our clients can rely on and the Japanese economy and society, SuMi TRUST Bank and present them with optimal choices in accordance with their other Group members will continue to provide products and respective needs. We also believe staying thoroughly attenservices that accord with our clients’ best interests and, in tive to managing conﬂicts of interest is of utmost importance. order to give thorough effect to our ﬁduciary duties across As an independent trust bank group that has a wide range of the entirety of the Group’s businesses, we will proceed with functions such as product development, asset management, initiatives based on Principles for Action (see page 62). 2. Group Structure to Promote Fiduciary Duty Policies The Group has put into place a structure to promote the companies, we regularly assess the status of speciﬁc initiaS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . thorough adoption of approaches for putting ﬁduciary tives and assemble an overall summary that is reported to duties into practice at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings the Board of Directors. (SuMi TRUST Holdings) and Group subsidiaries because it considers compliance with these policies at the parent Subsidiaries and across the Group to be a management matter of the Subsidiaries falling within the scope of application for polihighest importance. This structure centers on the Fiduciary cies regarding ﬁduciary duties are studying and impleDuties Planning and Promotion Department, which was menting initiatives according to their respective areas of established in October 2016. business operation. Of our subsidiaries, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (SuMi Fiduciary Duties Planning and TRUST Bank), Nikko Asset Management, Sumitomo Mitsui Promotion Department Trust Asset Management, and Japan Trustee Services Bank To promote thorough adoption of practices ensuring ﬁduhave asset management, product development, sales, and ciary duties take root at the parent and Group subsidiaries, asset administration operations and so will bear most of the Fiduciary Duties Planning and Promotion Department the responsibility for speciﬁc initiatives relating to ﬁduciary will help gather information and promote practices through duties (hereafter called action plans and action guidelines). 063 the drafting of plans relating to improving management of Along with their responsibilities to devise and disclose speconﬂicts of interest, along with the provision of training, ciﬁc initiatives, they will periodically report their progress advice, and guidance to subsidiaries. on such initiatives to their respective Board of Directors 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Based on Group policies at subsidiaries and other Group and their actions plans will be revised when necessary. Subsidiaries Implementing Initiatives based on Fiduciary Duty Policies Functions Our Group Offers Asset Management and Sales Product Development Asset Administration Other Trust Business Devising action plans Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank and action guidelines Japan Trustee Nikko Asset Management Services Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Real Estate Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Wealth Partners Investment Management Realty Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Research Institute Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Investment Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Japanese only) http://www.smtb.jp/corporate/pdf/fiduciaryduty.pdf Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management (Japanese only) http://www.smtam.jp/shared/pdf/news/PR2016_010.pdf Nikko Asset Management http://en.nikkoam.com/files/pdf/legal/code-of-conduct-regarding-fiduciary-esg-principles.pdf Japan Trustee Services Bank (Japanese only) http://www.japantrustee.co.jp/corporate/pdf/FD20161226.pdf Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Representative initiatives from the action plan for SuMi the aforementioned four Group companies, please see TRUST Bank, a core subsidiary, are shown in the table below. their websites. For speciﬁcs on the action plans and action guidelines of Function Principles Action Plan Sales Putting a client-oriented approach to We newly established items to evaluate the status of practices applied in consulting on consulting into practice accumulative-type investment plans and follow-up initiatives on evaluating sales results for sales sections and departments. Provision of information that is easy to To enhance client understanding of investment advisory fees etc. they shoulder for products understand (wrap accounts) with discretionary investment management, we have newly prepared materials concerning the content of services we provide and strive to offer thorough, extensive explanations (second half of ﬁscal year 2016). Provision of a broad-range of prodFor investment trusts, we have prepared standards for product selection and are studying the use ucts and services that meet the diverse of external perspectives to maintain our high-quality lineup that facilitate client asset formation needs of our clients (second half of ﬁscal year 2016). S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . For investment trusts, our sales results evaluation system encourages proposals that facilitate asset formation for clients rather than advancing a product line. For investment trusts, our results evaluation system assesses the status of practices applied in consulting on restricted distribution-type products, cumulative-type products (reinvests coupon or dividends), and accumulative-type investment plans. Asset Enhancement of asset management We are proceeding with operational improvements such as improving transparency of our deciManagement sion processes for exercising proxy votes by newly establishing an external advisory committee and Product on stewardship activities, and properly discharging our stewardship responsibilities such as Development engagement and exercise of proxy votes concerning client assets held in trust, including passive management (second half of ﬁscal year 2016). Building and strengthening governance We newly established an external advisory committee to bolster our systems for managing constructures that ensure independence ﬂicts of interest concerning stewardship activities such as engagement and the exercise of proxy voting rights, and are building a transparent operating system drawing on outside experts (second half of ﬁscal year 2016). We disclose our standards of judgment such as numerical criteria on the exercise of proxy votes, and are building a transparent operating system where we disclose a detailed breakdown of our proxy voting record (second half of ﬁscal year 2016). 064 Asset Enhancing information provision and serWe are working to improve and expand our middle/back ofﬁce operations for asset managers Administration vices that contribute to client investment such as accounts processing and administration of various legal reports, as well as our service activities and middle/back office operations provision menu and the outsourced work we accept such as reporting. Other Trust Initiatives for a client-oriented approach We provide easy-to-understand explanations about transaction terms and property attributes that Operation in real estate operations reﬂect client characteristics and report on the status of operational progress in a timely manner. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Together with the aforementioned, another section seeks to improve and expand its monitoring of the conditions of those in explanatory and reporting functions (second half of ﬁscal year 2016). What is Fiduciary Duty? The origins of the concept of ﬁduciary duty go back to medieval England when it was born from the resolution of disputes that arose when property was handed over to another party for discretionary management. Another way to express this notion is the responsibilities of a trust’s trustee. In general, ﬁduciary duty is the obligation the trustee owes to the trust’s trustor or beneﬁciaries. The concept is an extension on the obligations attached to professions requiring substantial expertise and discretion in the performance of work on behalf of others such as lawyers, doctors, and professionals in the asset management ﬁeld. It draws on codes of conduct or the character of principles rather than the precise stipulation of detailed rules. Fiduciary duties are thus a way of thinking about the core properties of trusts. Since our founding in 1924 as a specialized trust bank, the SuMi TRUST Group has applied the principles of truthfulness and loyalty, dedication, trust and creativity to how we think about our business. At this present juncture, diverse stakeholders call for proactive initiatives in the ﬁnancial sector in particular that put the interests of clients before everything else in ways that are suited to the context of each ﬁnancial institution across all their businesses. As an independent trust bank group with a wide range of functions—such as product development, asset management, sales, asset administration, and asset preservation—that Fiduciary Duties Planning and are responsive to evolving client needs attendant with structural changes to Japan’s econPromotion Department omy and society, the Group seeks to be thoroughgoing in putting into practice our ﬁduciary General Manager duties in ways that put the interests of our clients ﬁrst across all our businesses based on relExecutive Ofﬁcer evant policies and action plans. We will also proceed with initiatives for providing products Kazuhisa Koashi and services that are ever more “client oriented.” Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Fiduciary Duty Discussion Panel Along with SuMi TRUST Holdings, SuMi TRUST Bank, Duties Planning and Promotion Department. Each subNikko Asset Management, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset sidiary reports on the matters listed below, shares their Management, and Japan Trustee Services Bank have newly successful examples with other Council members, and disestablished the Fiduciary Duty Discussion Panel to procusses how to ensure practices that reﬂect ﬁduciary duties mote more advanced initiatives at subsidiaries with asset take root at each Group company. management, product development, sales, and asset • Status of compliance with policies regarding ﬁduciary duties administration operations and thus will be most responsi• Status of compliance in the case of successful examples ble for putting ﬁduciary duties into practice. • Initiatives relating to improvement in expertise Chaired by the General Manager of the Fiduciary Duties • Measures to promote advanced stewardship activities; Planning and Promotion Department, the Council is to be successful examples composed of directors and executive ofﬁcers tasked with • Measures to promote advanced risk management; sucpromoting ﬁduciary duties at each of the aforementioned cessful examples S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . subsidiaries as well as senior members of the Fiduciary Client Protection Management Basic Policy Amid the growing number of ﬁnancial products with ever policy in its Client Protection Management Rules to enable more complex mechanisms and unique characteristics, each Group company to enhance client protection and there is a pressing need for ﬁnancial institutions to propconvenience. Checking and promotion systems have also erly and fully explain to clients product mechanisms and been developed, so the Group complies with these and risks and to gain their understanding. It is also increasingly carries out business activities in a fair and just manner. By important that ﬁnancial institutions appropriately respond developing these systems, the Group is promoting vari065 to complaints and requests from clients and properly manous initiatives to address issues and problem areas, and age client information. enabling appropriate action based on self-discipline. Given these conditions, the Group regards client proGroup companies develop appropriate client protec2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t tection as one of its most important management issues. tion management systems in accordance with the characTo respond to the expectations and trust clients place in teristics of their own operations, based on the basic policy the Group, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established a basic established by SuMi TRUST Holdings. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Board of Directors Executive Committee Compliance Department Sumitomo Mitsui Board of Directors Trust Bank Executive Committee Other subsidiaries Compliance Committee Compliance Department Compliance Department IT & Business Process Planning Department Customer Satisfaction Promotion Department Ensuring Customers Managing Client Outsourcing Client Support Receive Adequate Conflicts Information Management Management Explanations of Interest Management Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 At Group companies, there are departments responrevise and update important rules as needed, and prosible for client protection management. Under this rubric, vide regular status reports to the Board of Directors, etc. separate departments tasked with managing conﬂicts Through their preparation of internal company rules, of interest, client information management, outsourcguidance to related departments, and training expansion ing management, and client support management have and improvement, these departments oversee client proalso been established. These departments work to ensure tection management as a whole as well manage as the the appropriateness and sufﬁciency of client protection, supervisory departments. Ensuring Customers Receive Adequate Explanations In providing ﬁnancial products and services to clients, the ensure such actions are appropriately taken from the cliGroup takes into account their knowledge, experience, ents’ standpoint by ensuring compliance with the suitabilasset situation, and purpose of transactions, and provides ity rule* and establishing company regulations through the S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . appropriate and adequate explanations to obtain their compilation of a client manual regarding the provision of understanding and consent. adequate explanations, etc., as well as through the thorAt SuMi TRUST Bank, the Compliance Department overough training we give to our employees. sees this ﬁeld as the department responsible for ensuring In particular, for transactions of products with no guarcustomers receive the information they need based on relantee of principal, we conduct monitoring to ascertain evant rules and regulations. Under the ambit of the comwhether adequate explanations have been provided to pliance department, our policy for solicitation and sales of elderly clients, and we review solicitation rules as required. ﬁnancial products and services, for instance, is available for *The suitability rule prohibits financial institutions from soliciting clients in ways that are clients to see at our branches and on our website. We also inadequate in light of the client’s knowledge, experience, and asset status and the purpose for entering into the financial transaction contract. Managing Conflicts of Interest* The Group complies with laws and regulations, etc. so as to SuMi TRUST Bank has been established as a department avoid unjustly undermining customers’ interests as a result of responsible for managing conﬂicts of interest independent 066 various services provided by group companies and relevant of the sales department. For the whole Group, a system persons and has published the outline of the policy for manto properly carry out the management of conﬂicts of interaging conﬂicts of interest, which describes “transactions that est has been put into place. The Compliance Department may constitute conﬂicts of interest,” “methods of managing examines and evaluates the effectiveness of the Group’s 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t conﬂicts of interest” and “systems for managing conﬂicts of management of conﬂicts of interest on a regular basis in interest.” In addition, based on this policy, the Group approorder to make continual improvements. We also provide priately manages transactions that may constitute conﬂicts of regular training and education and keep executives and interest and properly executes business operations. employees informed on such matters. In order to properly manage conﬂicts of interest based *“Conflicts of interest” refers to cases in which the interests of the Group and those of on rules for such situations, the Compliance Department at clients or interests among clients contradict each other. Solicitation Policy (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) 1. Explain the basic policy 4. Offer appropriate explanations and conduct appropriate Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited (SuMi TRUST Bank) practices its Codes solicitations of Conduct (“Value”) that calls for “completely client-oriented” service and SuMi TRUST Bank does not make explanations or conduct solicitation “strict compliance with applicable laws and regulations,” and recommends activity that may mislead clients, such as communicating false informaﬁnancial products and services based on this solicitation policy so that clition or providing deﬁnitive explanations concerning uncertain matters. ents can decide for themselves what is most appropriate for them. 5. Strive to conduct solicitation activity convenient for clients 2. Recommend financial instruments suited to clients SuMi TRUST Bank strives to conduct solicitation activity via telephone or SuMi TRUST Bank recommends ﬁnancial products and services suited to visit at a time, place and means convenient for clients. clients according to their “knowledge,” “experiences,” “asset situation” and “the purpose of their transactions.” 6. Strive to improve in-house systems SuMi TRUST Bank strives to improve in-house systems so that we can pro3. Explain the contents of financial products and services in an vide ﬁnancial products and services suited to clients. SuMi TRUST Bank easy-to-understand manner also strives to acquire accurate knowledge and master ways of providing SuMi TRUST Bank explains not only the contents and merits of ﬁnancial easy-to-understand explanations. products and services we provide but also risks and fees in an appropriate, easy-to-understand manner so that they can be fully understood. 7. Created a consultation contact point for clients Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Client Information Management The Group has established the Declaration for the security risk management rules with the aim of properly mainProtection of Personal Information as a policy to securely taining and managing the Group’s information assets. These protect the personal information of its clients. Furthermore, departments regularly evaluate the status and effectiveness the Group manages client information appropriately, and of client information management execution and provide when using client information jointly in the Group, each regular status reports to the Board of Directors, etc. At sales company complies with laws on personal information proand head ofﬁce departments, in addition to assigning gentection, guidelines on personal information protection in eral managers the responsibility of managing and administhe ﬁnancial industry, and other related laws and regulatering information, general managers require all employees tions so as to ensure appropriate use of such information. they supervise to submit written afﬁrmation of their duty of At SuMi TRUST Bank, IT & business process planning conﬁdentiality so all concerned clearly recognize they have a departments oversee client information management as duty to keep important information, including personal data units tasked with this responsibility based on information they come across while working, conﬁdential. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Outsourcing Management When outsourcing its operations, the Group takes measures and based on rules for outsourcing management, they to ensure that the outsourced operation is consigned to a select contractors suitable to the Group for outsourcing contractor capable of: (1) establishing regulations for the consignments and monitor them. These departments proappropriate management of risks from unexpected losses vide regular status reports to the Board of Directors, etc. incurred by the Group or its clients, (2) recognizing problems about the status of outsourcing management. related to the quality of service and the reliability of service Moreover, each business designates a department to continuity, and (3) implementing the operation accurately, oversee operations outsourced to contractors and evalfairly, and efﬁciently. We also verify whether or not outuates whether they are performing their assignments sourced contractors are antisocial in nature before entering properly in accordance with relevant rules and their coninto new contracts, and we repeat this veriﬁcation on a regusignment contracts through conﬁrmations of the status of lar basis. The purpose is to prevent transactions with antisoconsigned operations both on an ongoing periodic basis cial forces and to eliminate interference from them. and in response to emerging situations. These depart067 At SuMi TRUST Bank, IT & business process planning ments also monitor contractors when necessary. departments are responsible for outsourcing management, 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Privacy Policy We at the SuMi TRUST Group, in the utmost effort to protect the personal information of our clients and shareholders, have established the following policies, and we declare to abide by this policy. 1. Compliance with all Applicable Laws and Regulations, etc. the succession of business in a merger or otherwise or if it is shared with The companies in the Group shall comply with the laws pertaining to the a speciﬁed party set forth separately, then the personal information held protection of personal information, laws concerning the use of numbers for the client may be provided to the third party without obtaining the to identify a speciﬁc individual for public administration procedures (e.g., client’s consent. the “My Numbers Act), and guidelines set forth by government agencies With regards to speciﬁc personal information, we shall not provide this to including other standards. third parties irrespective of whether the person concerned has or has not consented, apart from cases where it is stipulated by laws concerning the use of 2. Appropriate Acquisition numbers to identify a speciﬁc individual for public administration procedures. The companies in the Group shall obtain personal information from clients, speciﬁc personal information, etc. only to the extent necessary for 6. Responding to Inquiries from Clients, etc. our operations and only through proper and legal means. The companies in the Group shall establish the procedures for correcting and disclosing personal information, and any inquiries concerning ques3. Purpose of Use tions, suggestions or inquiries and corrections of content, etc. related to The companies in the Group shall notify or announce how the personal inforpersonal information and speciﬁc personal information shall be handled mation shall be used, and shall only use it within the conﬁnes of the prescribed quickly and accurately. purpose except as otherwise provided by laws and regulations, and shall not use it for any other purpose. With regards to speciﬁc personal information, 7. Safety Measures use shall be limited to the scope stipulated in relevant laws and regulations. The companies in the Group, in their approach to managing personal information and speciﬁc personal information, take appropriate safety measures 4. Consignment in terms of their organizations, personnel affairs, and systems to manage If the companies in the Group consign the handling of the personal informapersonal information so as to prevent leaks etc. and have put into place a tion as well as speciﬁc personal information, then the consignee shall be framework of responsibility necessary to protect personal information. properly supervised to promote safe management of personal information. 8. Continuous Improvement 5. Offering to Third Parties The companies in the Group continually review and strive to improve the The companies in the Group shall not provide to any third party personal compliance program for protecting personal information. All executives information held for clients without obtaining prior consent from the client and employees are trained to understand the importance of protecting except in cases speciﬁed by laws and regulations. However, if the compapersonal information and to appropriately handle personal information nies in the Group provide a client’s personal information consequent to and speciﬁc personal information. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Client Support Management At SuMi TRUST Bank, the Customer Satisfaction (CS) making efforts to improve operations. In ﬁscal year 2015, Promotion Department is responsible for client support there were 10,305 complaints. management. Based on rules for supporting clients, the With regards to complaints etc., there is a reporting department quickly responds to inquiries and complaints system for complaints etc. that collects and manages this from clients in a sincere manner, aiming to resolve them information, and management receive periodic reports with the understanding and consent of clients to the about the content of complaints. By utilizing our “Voice greatest degree possible while also working to assess and of Customers Portal” (see page 69), we strive to improve analyze the causes of such inquiries and complaints and operations to enhance client convenience. Initiatives to Prevent Remittance Scams S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . With the aim of reminding employees about the key points to prevent 16 cases of remittance scams in ﬁscal year 2015. that are crucial to preventing remittance scams, SuMi TRUST Of those, six of our branches have received commendations Bank holds lectures for employees on the prevention of from local police forces for their contributions in this area. remittance scams at all of our branches nationwide. The lecSuMi TRUST Bank will continue to be proactive in speaktures are held with the assistance of the police and particiing to our clients in our endeavors to prevent crime. pants learn about the status of remittance scams locally, the methods used by criminals to target their victims, and the key List of commended branches points crucial to preventing this form of crime. Employees Nihonbashi Business DepartHachioji Branch, Hachiojialso role-play various remittance scams scenarios. ment, Tokyo-Chuo Branch Ekimae Branch Moreover, employees at our branches routinely speak to Koshigaya Branch Ikeda Branch clients who are making bank transfers, and carry out thorough checks of such transactions. As a result, we were able Nakano Branch Shin-Yurigaoka Branch 068 Efforts to Enhance Customer Satisfaction 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 1. Basic Policy The Group is utilizing its signiﬁcant expertise and compremind and ensure their satisfaction with supreme loyalty hensive capabilities to quickly provide clients with compreand sincerity, placing prime importance on credibility and hensive solutions. It is also making every effort to adopt sound management. a “customer-ﬁrst approach” and to offer clients peace of 2. Initiatives to Use “Voice of Customers” to Improve Our Services SuMi TRUST Bank receives a lot of feedback from customIn addition to our ongoing initiatives, we mailed ers and many requests at branch ofﬁces throughout Japan “Customer Questionnaires” in April 2016 to the about 1.6 through diverse channels such as telephone centers and million clients who have consummated contracts for time the Group’s website as well as the “Voice of Customers deposits, investment trusts, etc. with us with the aim of furQuestionnaires” available at every branch. In ﬁscal year ther improving customer satisfaction. 2015, we appreciated the upwards of 270,000 opinions and In this way, we aim to use the opinions and requests we requests we received through these channels (see page 69 received from our clients to provide even better products regarding our system for applying customer feedback). and services. • Regardless of the size of their account, we enclosed “Customer Questionnaires” in the acUsing “Customer count balance report we sent to clients who have consummated contracts for time deposits Questionnaires” to and other financial products with us. Clients return the questionnaires by mail, so we are able to collect feedback from them directly. Collect Feedback from • There are detailed question items regarding the manners, appropriate use of language, and Customers the sales proposals of our employees so our employees can better grasp in detail how clients evaluate their approach to client service. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our System for 1 Collecting customer feedback Applying Customer SuMi TRUST Bank highly values not only feedback collected Feedback through the “Voice of Customers Questionnaires” and mail questionnaire surveys but also customer feedback included SuMi TRUST Bank receives a lot of feedback from in inquiries, consultations and requests we handle routinely. customers and many requests at branch offices Such feedback is used for improving its operations. throughout Japan as well as its telephone centers Five ways of collecting customer feedback and website, along with the “Voice of Customers • Branches (over-the-counter, telephone) Questionnaires” available at every branch. We use this Customer feedback is recorded in a dedicated system so that it can be used to make improvements. In addition, feedback to provide better products and services. there is a system that enables company-wide sharing of S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . feedback in cooperation with the head ofﬁce. • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Direct Procedures are implemented via telephone and inquiries, and consultations and opinions are also received and are used to make improvements. Such feedback is also comStudying and Collecting municated to and shared by relevant departments. 3 implementing 1 customer feedback • Various Questionnaire Surveys improvement Various questionnaire surveys are conducted to solicit opinmeasures CS ions regarding SuMi TRUST Bank’s products and services. (Customer Satisfaction) • Customer Service Office Promotion Cycle of Customers’ opinions and requests are received via teleSuMi TRUST Bank phone, postal mail and Internet. • Voice of Customers Questionnaires Customers may send back the “Voice of Customers Questionnaires,” available at branches across Japan, via Analyzing mail or the “Voice of Customers Posts” installed within the 2 customer feedback branches to convey their opinions and requests. We also receive opinions and requests from customers during visits 069 to them. 3 Studying and implementing improvement measures 2 Analyzing customer feedback 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Regarding opinions and requests received from customers, In order to realize customer satisfaction by utilizing the more branches and the head ofﬁce cooperate in investigating and than 100,000 cases of feedback we receive each year, we use analyzing the causes and identifying problems. Based on the the “CS Voice of Customers Portal,” a system to analyze cusresults, we look for improvement measures and strive to protomer feedback. We are striving to meet customers’ needs vide better products and services. by making customer feedback “visible” so that we can better “recognize” customer needs. Customer feedback CS Voice of Customers Portal: a System for Analyzing Customer Feedback Head office Branches CS Committee Investigation and sharing of challenges Search for improvement measures Implementation of improvement measures Enhancement of customer satisfaction Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3. Examples of Improvement Based on Feedback from Individual Customers We will pay attention to each instance of customer feedserve customers as a bank. back and use it to realize customer satisfaction. Customers’ *To learn more about “example cases of improvement based on feedback from individsmiles and words of appreciation give us a sense of fulﬁllual customers,” please go to SuMi TRUST Bank’s website. ment and happiness. We will continue to strive to better http://www.smtb.jp/corporate/cs/improvement/personal.html Matsuyama Branch Kawanishi Branch Voice of I wasn’t able to concentrate when filling out paperVoice of customer customer I feel awkward when I come to the branch because work and taking other necessary steps because of there is no place to put a baby carriage. children running around the branch. The branch keeps a portable “Kids’ House” on The branch has designated a priority space for Improvement hand so customers who bring their children can Improvement storing baby carriages and wheel chairs in the S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . fill out paperwork without worrying they will lobby area. Our aim is to create a branch everydisturb others. The “Kids’ House” can be placed one can feel comfortable visiting. near the seat where the customer is sitting. Nara-Saidaiji Branch Voice of customer I would like the branch to install a cane holder at customer meeting counters. We provide holders for canes and umbrellas at Improvement two ATM stalls, writing stands, and customer meeting counters inside branches. Please feel free to use them. 070 Examples of improvement based on feedback from corporate clients Product Service improvement Businesses offering asset improvement Defined contribution pension business case management products case 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Amid declining yields on yen-denominated We started offering Web services for defined Improvement products, we started offering structured deImprovement contribution pensions based on requests we posits referencing forex rates for clients with received in surveys conducted at explanation forex-related product initiatives. meetings on pension administration at cus*Both the principal and coupon payments of these prodtomer offices. ucts are yen denominated. A pre-determined coupon rate is paid only at the date of first contract consummation; from the second payment onward, the coupon rate is determined on the decision date according to each special agreement. In phases of yen weakening, the coupon rate paid tends to increase, and in phases of yen strengthening, the coupon rate paid tends to decrease. Normalization Initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank is implementing a variety of initiatives in order to ensure that its branches are accessible to all. For example, we are installing ATMs for the visually impaired, as well as textured paving blocks, to allow them to carry out their transactions smoothly. We have also deﬁned internal procedures for writing and reading proxies for deposits, withdrawals, and the like. To make our branch facilities easier to use for those with hearing difﬁculties, we have posted “Ear Mark” signs and “Assistance Dog” stickers, and equipped counters at each branch with writing boards, hearing aids, and communication boards. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 4. Efforts to Enhance Customer Satisfaction Mindfulness To promote customer satisfaction (CS) improvement activiCustomer Service Role Playing ties, “CS Committees” are established in all branches, and Role playing is implemented, with employees acting as they actively conduct various CS improvement activities customers, and employees evaluate each other’s perforthat match the characteristics of each branch. In addition, mance. In addition, the role playing is recorded on video solid education and training are provided to employees to so that employees can check their own performance and encourage each and every one to practice a customer-ﬁrst improve their customer service skills. approach to service on a daily basis. Service “Helper” Reflecting on Business Manners The service “helper” certiﬁcation is a way to demonstrate Two Months a Year that one is committed to client hospitality and has learned We offer programs two months a year—February and helping skills to support the elderly and disabled in many August—for employees at all branch ofﬁces and head everyday life situations. About 1,000 companies nationS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . ofﬁce departments to think about and reﬂect on busiwide have adopted this certiﬁcation system in their business manners in the context of performing their work. nesses. Among ﬁnancial institutions, SuMi TRUST Bank was Employees reﬂect broadly on manners, including perone of the ﬁrst to incorporate it. Along with initiatives to sonal appearance and grooming, how they carry and conmake barrier-free design a standard feature at our branch duct themselves in an ofﬁce context, and their greetings ofﬁces, we encouraged employees to seek certiﬁcation so and salutations. Discussions where employees share their they can feel conﬁdent in providing client service. As of thoughts are then held at each branch ofﬁce and head October 31, 2016, 169 employees at 99 branch ofﬁces have ofﬁce department, and the results of the discussions are obtained the service “helper” certiﬁcation. written up in a report. Various Tools for Improving CS Mindfulness Month 071 Course name Content Eligibility offered 1H FY2015 Study preparations for client support management All employees May Training on client support management 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t August 2015 Reconﬁrming ofﬁce work capabilities of all employees All employees Office task retraining August August 2015 Review everyday ofﬁce tasks, self-checks on business manners All employees Reflecting on business manners Form a shared recognition that deepens employee underCustomer First: Search until Reaching standing about our spirit of CS improvement and a genuine All employees October e-learning Source Waters customer-ﬁrst approach based on common principles and a motto that go back to our founding (see page 72) February 2016 Reconﬁrming ofﬁce work capabilities of all employees All employees Office task retraining February 2016 Review everyday ofﬁce tasks, self-checks on business manners All employees Reflecting on business manners February Conﬁrms basics when answering phone calls from customAll employees CS-related Basics: How to Answer ers at a branch ofﬁce, offers guidance on operations where assigned to Phone Calls many phone calls must be answered and provides tips on retail branch collaborating with branch ofﬁce sections ofﬁces 2H FY2015 Training on client support manageStudy preparations for client support management All employees March ment The handbook, given to all employees, starts with instructions on how to answer phone calls and the ﬁner points of proper greetings and has entries on proper carriage and conduct at ceremonial occasions and how to write conBusiness manners gratulatory and condolence gift notes. Each employee reads the handbook carefully and uses it as a guide to man& handbook ners. Moreover, at branch ofﬁces, employees seek to remind themselves of the importance of manners and selfimprovement by reading the handbook aloud together. Sumitomo Mitsui The compliance manual, given to all employees, provides a code of conduct as a way to earn the trust of clients Trust Bank’s and society with entries on what offering an adequate explanation entails, how to properly handle personal inforcompliance mation, and ways to respond to anti-social forces. Each employee reads the manual carefully and uses it as a commanual pliance reference, while also gaining an understanding of the latest laws and internal company rules. (see page 87) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Delivery of Reliable Financial Products and Services Systems for Introducing New Products and New Operations When starting to handle new products or when engaging in Flow Chart of Introduction of New Products new operations, it is necessary to identify and evaluate the and New Operations places and types of inherent risks, develop infrastructure necessary for management and conduct sufﬁcient advance Departments in charge of risk checks study so as to ensure appropriate risk management. To Consultation Consultation that end, we have built a product examination system. In about risks about risks this process, we clarify the risks borne by clients. Moreover, in marketing products, we have developed frameworks to Departments in Corporate Risk ensure explanations and solicitations provide proper concharge of product Management Department Consultation S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . management Product Examination Office ﬁrmation of suitability for clients. In these ways, our systems as to whether or not product for introducing new products and operations are meant to examination Product is necessary examination referral foster the trust clients place in us. Application for Monitoring Systems product examination Product Examination Approval Committee In the post-launch phrase, the department responsible for the new product or operation provides quarterly “post-introduction initiative status reports” to the Product Examination Ofﬁce. Under this management approach, Applying Customer Feedback the ofﬁce conﬁrms initiative status based on the report As one plank in our approach to client protection manand whether conditions differ from those assumed in the agement vis-à-vis the products and services we offer, the assessment at the Product Examination Committee. When Group recognizes it is best to go beyond responding to necessary, the ofﬁce coordinates with departments in complaints as we ﬁeld inquiries, welcome suggestions and charge of risk checks and management planning in conreceive requests from clients. We believe feedback from cli072 junction with the department responsible. As a follow-up ents is a valuable source of information for identifying probrisk management measure, the department responsible lems involving compliance and ways to improve operations. for the new product or operation must immediately report Rather than passively processing suggestions and comto the Product Examination Ofﬁce in the event conditions plaints we hear from clients, we strive to respond with sincer2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t differ from those assumed in the Product Examination ity and actively take onboard feedback in ways that improve Committee assessment. Likewise, it must report to the the quality of our products and services. When we receive ofﬁce if different risks are assumed than those previsuggestions or complaints, we work to resolve issues quickly, ously identiﬁed. When necessary, the ofﬁce coordinates doing our utmost to respond swiftly and sincerely to ensure with departments in charge of risk checks and examines we have gone as far as we can to obtain the understanding response options at the Product Examination Committee. and acceptance of our clients (see page 68). SuMi TRUST Bank’s e-learning At SuMi TRUST Bank, all employees can enroll in e-learning capsules that are available online at “Web Campus,” an information portal for employees. The departments in charge design the capsules so the content can be learned in ﬁve to ten minutes. For e-learning courses employees are required to complete, there are self-check tests employees can take to conﬁrm their level of comprehension. Moreover, department supervisors manage mandatory courses to ensure all the employees they oversee learn the required content and their department completion rate reaches 100%. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 3 Earn the Trust of Society S u m i t om o Mi tsu t su i Tru Tr u s t H ol o l d i n g s, s, Inc. • We strictly adhere to all laws, regulations and rules, and conduct our activities in a sincere and fair manner that conforms to societal norms. • We build sound and proper relationships with stakeholders, and fulfill our responsibilities as a member of society, engaging in fair competition and appropriate disclosure of corporate information, etc. • We maintain a resolute stance against antisocial forces which threaten public order and safety, and work to prevent improper use of financial functions by organized crime. 073 2 0 1 6 C S R Re po port Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Corporate Governance The Group has created a management structure befitting a trust bank group that boasts the largest scale and highest status in Japan, combining the banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses. We are striving to ensure management transparency and soundness, while speeding up our decision-making in order to respond with flexibility to changes in the environment. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 1. Basic Policy In order to adhere to the principles of sound management mediumto long-term enhancement of the corporate value based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (“SuMi TRUST Group”). of ﬁduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society, The Board of Directors has published SuMi TRUST Group’s Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) management principles (mission), ideal model (vision), and shall commit itself to enhancing its corporate governance codes of conduct (value) as the general principle for its mansystem in line with the following fundamental perspectives, agement, which shall be shared by all the ofﬁcers and employwith the objective of supporting sustainable growth and ees of SuMi TRUST Group and relied upon in all activities. 074 Fundamental Perspectives • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall respect shareholder rights, and Disclosure Policy, and endeavor to appropriately disclose corpo2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t endeavor to develop an environment in which shareholders can rate information, including non-financial information, and ensure exercise their rights appropriately and effectively, and to secure the transparency of its corporate management. effective equal treatment of shareholders. • As a financial holding company with the function of managing • By recognizing the importance of its social responsibilities and the business execution of the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST public mission, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall endeavor to appropriHoldings shall endeavor to ensure the Board of Directors’ role of ately cooperate with its stakeholders such as shareholders, cuseffective oversight of the business execution. tomers, employees, business partners, and local communities, • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall engage in constructive dialogue with and to establish a corporate culture where it conducts sound busiits stakeholders in order to contribute to sustainable growth and ness operations based on a high degree of self-discipline. mediumto long-term enhancement of the corporate value of • In order to establish the basis for constructive dialogue with its SuMi TRUST Holdings. stakeholders, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall separately set out its Corporate Governance System Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings *1 Including CSR Council General Meeting of Shareholders *2 Corporate Auditors • Business Management Committee Holding Company • Enterprise Risk Management Committee Board of Corporate Auditors • Disclosure Committee Nominating and Board of Directors Audit Compensation Consultation and Consultation and Committee Report Report Committee Executive Committee*1 Committees*2 Formulating Group Monitoring Administration Allocating Supervising Risk Supervising Compliance Managing Internal Management Strategy of Business Activities Management Resources Management Management Auditing Directly Owned Business Planning Risk Management Compliance Internal Auditing Subsidiaries Directly Owned Subsidiaries Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2. Outline of Corporate Governance System (1) Perspectives Regarding SuMi TRUST SuMi TRUST Group and substantive discussion at the Board Holdings’ Corporate Governance System of Directors. However, due consideration shall also be given The SuMi TRUST Group is a trust bank group, which is to securing diversity and professionalism at the Board of formed around Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Directors in deciding such number. In light of the importance Bank”), a core subsidiary with signiﬁcant expertise develof external directors’ functions in corporate governance, SuMi oped over the years and with wide business ﬁelds that TRUST Holdings shall operate the Board of Directors with at enable the provision of a one-stop total solution service. least one-third of the directors being independent external With the objective of meeting its stakeholders’ expectadirectors, in principle. For the Independence Standards of tions, SuMi TRUST Group shall further ensure the transIndependent External Ofﬁcers established by SuMi TRUST parency of its management, and shall develop a system Holdings, please refer to our website (http://www.smth.jp/en/ necessary to enhance its corporate governance system. about_us/governance/independence.pdf). S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . (2) Organizational Structure of Corporate Governance Composition of the Board of Directors The corporate governance system SuMi TRUST Holdings has in place is the corporate auditors system. At least half of the corNumber of Directors: 9 porate auditors on our Board of Corporate Auditors are external auditors, and executive ofﬁcers with a detailed understanding of our businesses serve as internal directors on our Board of Directors, where important business matters are decided. Number of Internal Directors: 6 Number of External Directors: 3*1 (All external directors are (3) Roles of the Board of Directors independent ofﬁcers.) The Board of Directors shall oversee overall management and *1 SuMi TRUST Holdings has notified the financial instruments exchange that all three ensure fairness and transparency of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ corexternal directors are independent officers. *2 For details, please refer to our website (http://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/officer/index.html). porate management. In addition, the Board of Directors shall make decisions for SuMi TRUST Group by, among other things, deciding important business-execution matters to be decided (5) Qualification of Directors and Nomination Procedures by the Board of Directors as required by laws. Except for the SuMi TRUST Holdings’ candidates for directors are decided 075 important business-execution matters, the Board of Directors from among a wide range of diversiﬁed individuals pursuant shall delegate business execution and decision-making thereon to the following nomination policies: (i) A person with abunto subordinate meetings, such as the Executive Committee, dant knowledge and experience regarding the management 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t and ofﬁcers exercising control over the relevant business, etc., administration and business operation of a trust bank group; and the Board of Directors shall oversee the execution of duties and (ii) A person who fully understands the social responsiby such meetings and ofﬁcers, etc. bility and mission of banking business and the ﬁduciary spirit External directors shall oversee the execution of busiof trust business, and who is able to fairly and appropriately ness by the Board of Directors and the top management, implement management administration and business operand any conﬂicts of interest that may arise between SuMi ation based on a high degree of self-discipline. TRUST Holdings and the management team, etc., from the The candidates for external directors are decided from standpoint of stakeholders, in order to support sustainable among a wide range of diversiﬁed individuals pursuant to the growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the following nomination policies: (i) A person who satisﬁes the corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group. Independence Standards of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and who In light of the importance of environmental and social issues is deemed unlikely to give rise to conﬂicts of interest with genover sustainability, the Board of Directors shall prescribe the eral shareholders of SuMi TRUST Holdings; (ii) A person who basic policy regarding social responsibility to be implemented understands SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management principles, by each group company (the “Sustainability Policy”). With and fully understands the social responsibilities and roles of the Sustainability Policy, the Board of Directors shall enhance SuMi TRUST Holdings as a trust bank group; and (iii) A perawareness of its ofﬁcers and employees, and promote posison who fully recognizes the role of external director, and who tive efforts to resolve these issues by considering its stakeholdis able to oversee SuMi TRUST Holdings’ directors and maners, aiming to support the sustainable growth of society and agement, and provide proper and appropriate opinions and increase the corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group. advice, by leveraging the person’s knowledge and activities in ﬁelds such as corporate management, economics, legal (4) Composition of the Board of Directors affairs, accounting, tax accounting, and auditing. From June The Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Holdings shall have no 2016, Hiroko Kawamoto, who leads Customer Satisfaction more than 15 directors, which is the number of directors pre(CS) promotion and initiatives to support female success in scribed in the Articles of Incorporation, and it shall basically the workplace at ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD., was nomicomprise such number of directors as shall be necessary and nated and approved to serve as an external director, boosting appropriate to secure an effective management system of the presence of women in management. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Reasons for the Appointment of External Directors auditors are external auditors. Furthermore, the three Soichi Shinohara: Professor Shinohara concurrently serves external auditors meet the Independence Standards of as President of Kyoto Gakuen University and Emeritus SuMi TRUST Holdings and thus have been designated as Professor of Doshisha University. He was appointed as an independent ofﬁcers. external director as he was expected to offer his wealth of Corporate auditors attend important meetings including knowledge about, and sophisticated insight into, economic the Board of Directors meetings and receive reports from direcissues both at home and abroad to further enhance the qualtors and the headquarters on the status of execution of duties ity of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. He developed his as well as business reports from subsidiaries as necessary. knowledge and insight in his capacity as an economist specializing in international economics and macroeconomics. (7) Qualification of Corporate Auditors and Nomination Procedures Takeshi Suzuki: Mr. Suzuki had held numerous prominent SuMi TRUST Holdings’ candidates for corporate auditors positions at Toyota Motor Corporation and Aioi Nissay are decided from among a wide range of diversiﬁed indiS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Currently, he concurrently serves viduals pursuant to the following nomination policies, with as an external director of AICHI CORPORATION. He was the approval of the Board of Corporate Auditors: (i) A perappointed as an external director as he was expected to son with abundant knowledge and experience regarding offer his wealth of experience and extensive insight develthe management administration and business operation of oped in his capacity as a senior executive of a company to a trust bank group; and (ii) A person who is able to oversee SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. the execution of duties by directors from a fair and objective standpoint and contribute to enhancing the soundness Mikio Araki: Mr. Araki served as the Deputy President and and transparency of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. Representative Director of Development Bank of Japan Inc. The candidates for external auditors are decided from He concurrently serves as President of The Japan Economic among a wide range of diversiﬁed individuals pursuant to Research Institute, an external director of Kintetsu Group the following nomination policies, with the approval of the Holdings Co., Ltd. and an external auditor of Japan Freight Board of Corporate Auditors: (i) A person who satisﬁes the Railway Company. He was appointed as an external direcIndependence Standards of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and tor as he was expected to bring his wealth of experience who is deemed unlikely to give rise to conﬂicts of interest 076 and deep insight into ﬁnance as a business leader to SuMi with general shareholders of SuMi TRUST Holdings; (ii) A TRUST Holdings’ management. person who understands SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management principles, and fully understands the social responsibilities and roles of SuMi TRUST Holdings as a trust bank 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t External Directors’ Attendance at Board of Directors Meetings group; and (iii) A person who fully recognizes the role of external auditor and who is able to oversee the execution Attended all 12 of the 13 Attendance rate Soichi Shinohara of duties by directors from a neutral and objective standBoard of Directors meetings 92% Attended all 13 Board of Attendance rate point, by leveraging the person’s knowledge and activities Takeshi Suzuki Directors meetings 100% Attended all 13 Board of Attendance rate in ﬁelds such as corporate management, economics, legal Mikio Araki Directors meetings 100% affairs, accounting, tax accounting, and auditing, and who *Attendance is for the period from April to November 2016. is thereby able to contribute to enhancing the soundness and transparency of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. (6) Composition of the Board of Corporate Auditors SuMi TRUST Holdings has adopted the corporate audiReasons for the Appointment of External Auditors tor system. The Board of Corporate Auditors comprises Tetsuya Yoshimoto: Mr. Yoshimoto had held numerous proma total of ﬁve corporate auditors, including two full-time inent positions as a judge and has a wealth of experience in corporate auditors and three part-time corporate audithe legal community, including serving as the Chairman of tors (external auditors). In order to ensure the indepenthe National Public Service Ethics Board after he retired from dence of the auditing function, three of the corporate his position as a judge, and has a high sense of morality. He was appointed as an external auditor as he was expected to Composition of the Board of Corporate Auditors offer his experience and a high sense of morality to further enhance the quality of audits at SuMi TRUST Holdings. Number of Corporate Auditors: 5 Shinichi Saito: Mr. Saito is Representative Director and Co-CEO of Japan Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. He was nominated and approved to serve as an external auditor Number of Internal Number of External Auditors: 3 so SuMi TRUST Holdings could harness his wealth of expeCorporate Auditors: 2 (All external auditors are rience and insights relating to treasury and accounting independent ofﬁcers.) functions, overseas business, general ﬁnance, corporate * For details, please refer to our website (http://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/officer/index.html). turnarounds from the years he worked in ﬁnance functions Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 at a major trading conglomerate and the consulting busi(9) Policies Regarding Training of Directors and ness of leading audit ﬁrms in auditing our operations. Corporate Auditors SuMi TRUST Holdings collects and provides information Takashi Yoshida (Joined in June 2016): Mr. Yoshida is a regarding industry trends, corporate governance, ﬁnance certiﬁed public accountant and serves concurrently as an and accounting, and any other matters that is required by external auditor at NIPPON SEIRO CO., LTD. and as an directors and corporate auditors in order to perform their external director at COSMOS INITIA CO., LTD. He was roles and functions, and it thereby supports directors and nominated and approved to serve as an external auditor so corporate auditors in executing their duties. The “External SuMi TRUST Holdings could harness his wealth of experiOfﬁcers Support Ofﬁce” was established in June 2015 in ence and insights relating to accounting and treasury from order to strengthen systems that support external directors years at leading audit ﬁrms working in the audit practice and external auditors in performing their roles and funcfor ﬁnancial institutions and for non-ﬁnancial companies, tions. It provides support to external directors by explaining participation in audit ﬁrm management as an employee agenda items for meetings of the Board of Directors etc. to S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . representative and managing director, and the global perthem in advance, providing them with materials, and holdspective he brings from years working overseas. ing meetings where operational speciﬁcs and items important for the Group’s business management are explained. External Auditors’ Attendance at As for external auditors, full-time corporate auditors Board of Corporate Auditors Meetings report audit information collected through daily audit activities such as minutes of important meetings and invesAttended all 11 Board of Attendance rate tigation results for the parent and its subsidiaries and share Tetsuya Yoshimoto Corporate Auditors meetings 100% such information with external auditors at meetings of the Attended all 11 Board of Attendance rate Shinichi Saito Board of Corporate Auditors. At the same time, staff memCorporate Auditors meetings 100% bers at the Corporate Auditors Ofﬁce, who are indepenAttended all 7 Board of Takashi Yoshida Corporate Auditors meetings Attendance rate dent of business execution, provide support to external 100% (joined in June 2016) auditors by providing them materials and explanations and *Attendance is for the period from April to November 2016. answering their questions. (10) Outline of Results of Analysis and 077 (8) Internal Auditing Evaluation on Overall Board Effectiveness Regarding internal auditing, an internal audit unit, which With the aim of further improving the effectiveness of the is independent of units pertaining to business execution, Board of Directors, we surveyed all directors and corpo2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t has been established to create the policy on development rate auditors of SuMi TRUST Holdings and core subsidiary of the internal auditing system and internal audit plans SuMi TRUST Bank on matters involving Board composition, of SuMi TRUST Group. It also performs internal auditing issues raised for discussion at Board meetings, time allofor each business execution unit and indicates and reccated for discussion, materials and explanations provided ommends points to be improved. The results of internal in advance, how meetings were run, and the state of Board audits and the status of internal auditing plans in terms member discussion at meetings to encourage them to look of progress and objectives achieved are reported to the back on the Board’s performance in ﬁscal year 2015 and Board of Directors, etc., in a timely and appropriate manascertain what issues they believe ought to be a focus in ner. Effective June 26, 2015, the Audit Committee was the coming ﬁscal year and beyond. established as an advisory board to the Board of Directors. The Board’s secretariat analyzed and evaluated the The Audit Committee deliberates in advance on important effectiveness of Board meetings based on results from colmatters including the internal audit plans and reports the lected surveys and results from post-survey individual interresults of the deliberation to the Board of Directors. views with all external directors and external auditors. After an external third-party body veriﬁed the effectiveness of the evaluation process and its appropriateness, the evaluInternal Auditing Implementation System ation results were reported to the Board of Directors in an Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, etc. April 2016 meeting. General Meeting General Meeting Regarding the results and the process of evaluation of Shareholders of Shareholders Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Corporate Auditors of our Board of Directors, a third-party body determined Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditors Board of Directors there were no problems concerning effectiveness and Advisory & reporting Board of Directors Audit Committee Executive Committee appropriateness. An outline of the evaluation results of the Board of Executive Committee Prior deliberation Directors in ﬁscal year 2015 is provided below. Internal Internal auditing auditing Head office Monitoring Internal Audit Internal auditing departments and Each department Department unit sales departments Internal auditing Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Board Composition, Issues Raised for Board Discussion, (11) Establishment of Voluntary Committees Time for Discussion In order to further enhance its corporate governance sys• Conﬁrmed effectiveness was constant from the standtem, SuMi TRUST Holdings establishes the Nominating points of Board composition, issues raised for discussion and Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee, at Board meetings, and time allocated for discussion in which external directors participate, as advisory bodies • Conﬁrmed there is room to improve on how to infuse to the Board of Directors. ingenuity into agenda issues, how to run Board meeting discussions, and how to further improve diversity in a manner consistent with the Group’s strategy Outline of the Nominating and Compensation Committee Materials and Explanations Provided in Advance (as of September 30, 2016) • Conﬁrmed information sharing with external directors and external auditors outside of the Board meetings the Chair: Mikio Araki (External Director) Group operates, and the provision of explanations on Member: Soichi Shinohara (External Director) matters involving the Board ahead of Board meetings Member: Takeshi Suzuki (External Director) S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . • Conﬁrmed the innovative approach we have pursued so Member: Hitoshi Tsunekage (Chairman) far such as developing summaries is having an impact but Member: Kunitaro Kitamura (President) also that there is room to strive for further improvements In principle, the majority of the Committee members consists of exin how we prepare materials for Board meetings ternal directors. Main consultation matters Meeting Administration, Status of Board Member • The nomination of candidates for directors and corporate auditors Discussion at Meetings • The Independence Standards of independent external ofﬁcers • Conﬁrmed topics for discussion are examined from diverse • The compensation structure for ofﬁcers perspectives, and that external directors and external audi• Other important matters regarding ofﬁcers tors offer comments at Board meetings in an appropriate manner that draw on their knowledge and experience • Conﬁrmed that directors believe the Board should work harder to further stimulate debate and seek fresh Outline of the Audit Committee approaches to ensure comprehensiveness and objective(as of September 30, 2016) ness in debating issues up for discussion Chair: Soichi Shinohara (External Director) 078 The evaluation report for ﬁscal year 2015 showed for each Member: Takeshi Suzuki (External Director) of the items above no problems were identiﬁed in the Member: Mikio Araki (External Director) efﬁcacy and effectiveness of the Board’s performance. Member: Yoshiaki Koshimura (Officer responsible for SuMi Even so, regarding the subjects and issues we ﬁelded 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t TRUST Holdings’ Internal Audit Department) through the evaluation report, we will strive to improve In principle, the majority of the Committee members consists of exand be more attentive and thereby further improve the ternal directors. Board’s performance. Main consultation matters • Internal audit plans • Other important matters regarding the internal audit 3. Compensation for Directors Compensation for directors is intended to function effecmedium-to-long-term performance. Speciﬁcally, the foltively as an incentive for improvement of corporate perforlowing structure is applied to compensation of directors mance and expansion of corporate value in order to realize (excluding external directors) and executive ofﬁcers of SuMi stable and sustainable growth of the SuMi TRUST Group. TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. • In principle, payment shall be made as a combination (1) Compensation Structure of monthly compensation, ofﬁcers’ bonus, and stockSuMi TRUST Bank, core subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings, compensation-type stock options, and the compensaengages in businesses in a wide ﬁeld of business. SuMi tion policy and compensation table for each ﬁscal year TRUST Holdings has adopted a management style that aims shall be resolved at the Board of Directors meeting. to increase proﬁts through efforts to increase the scale of • The monthly compensation is separated into two types: entrusted assets and the like by expanding the customer “ﬁxed compensation” that is a ﬁxed amount per position, base over the medium-to-long term rather than seeking and “performance-based compensation” that is based short-term proﬁt. With these features of a trust bank as the on each individual ofﬁcer’s evaluation of the preceding background, the systems and structures for compensation of year while also reﬂecting the ofﬁcer’s mediumto longdirectors have been established, not focusing on single-year term performance contribution as well. performance evaluation in which short-term contribution • Allocated amounts of ofﬁcers’ bonuses shall be determined to proﬁt is emphasized, but focusing on ofﬁcers’ qualiﬁcaby deciding the total payment amount taking into considtions and capabilities as senior management, and based eration the overall management environment, corporate on a comprehensive evaluation that reﬂects assessment of performance and the like and reﬂecting each individual Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 ofﬁcer’s performance in the preceding ﬁscal year. Committee members shall be external directors, and the • With regard to the stock-compensation-type stock chair shall be selected from external directors, in principle, options, the number of stock option rights shall be deterthrough a mutual election by the members. mined based on the number of stock option rights per • Monthly compensation amounts, bonus amounts, and the position with an adjustment for each individual ofﬁcer’s number of stock-compensation-type stock option rights performance evaluation and the like. and the like for individual directors (excluding external • The share ownership plan of ofﬁcers is a mechanism by directors) and executive ofﬁcers of SuMi TRUST Holdings which individual ofﬁcers shall voluntarily determine their and SuMi TRUST Bank based on their performance evalinvested amounts based on the target number of share uations shall be proposed at the performance evaluation ownership deﬁned per position. meeting that is composed of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ internal ofﬁcers and resolved at the Board of Directors meeting. The compensation to external directors of SuMi TRUST • Details of the determined compensation amount and Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank shall be composed of the the like shall be reported at the explanatory meeting ﬁxed monthly compensation alone and resolved at the for external directors and external corporate auditors of Board of Directors meeting, taking into consideration the SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. This meetS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . business conditions of SuMi TRUST Holdings, compensation ing is organized in order to establish an opportunity to level of its internal directors, general standards and the like. hear opinions from an objective standpoint. The compensation to corporate auditors of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank shall be composed of the (3) Compensation for FY2015 ﬁxed monthly compensation alone and the suitable level The total amount of compensation for ﬁscal year 2015 for for corporate auditors of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi directors excluding external directors was 425 million yen, TRUST Bank shall be discussed with corporate auditors and and for corporate auditors excluding external auditors was then determined, taking into consideration the business 58 million yen. SuMi TRUST Holdings has omitted individconditions of SuMi TRUST Holdings, compensation levels ual disclosures of compensation as no one received comof corporate directors, general standards and the like. pensation of 100 million yen or more, the amount subject to the disclosure requirements. (2) Procedures to Determine Compensation In SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, the compensation structure and compensation table for directors and Total Amount of Compensation executive ofﬁcers, and compensation amounts of individual for Applicable Officers at SuMi TRUST Holdings ofﬁcers shall be determined by the following procedures: (From April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) 079 Millions of Yen • The Nominating and Compensation Committee that was established as an advisory body to the Board of Directors Total amount Category Headcount of compenTotal amount Total amount Compensation of SuMi TRUST Holdings shall consider matters relating sation of ﬁxed comBasic compenof variable Bonus as stock Retirement beneﬁts 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t pensation sation compensation option to ofﬁcers’ compensation of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank (ofﬁcers’ compensation structure, ofﬁDirectors (excluding External Directors) 10 425 327 327 67 67 31 – cers’ compensation table and other important matters) Corporate Auditors and then report their proposals to their respective Boards (excluding External Auditors) 2 58 58 58 – – – – of Directors. *Amount of compensation stated above includes compensation for (concurrent) directorship at the signifi• In principal, a majority of the Nominating and Compensation cant consolidated subsidiaries. 4. Regarding Cross-Shareholdings (1) Policies Regarding Cross-Shareholdings The SuMi TRUST Group shall not acquire and hold the shares, into consideration various factors, including the impact of etc. of business counterparties, etc. (the “Cross-Shareholding selling the shares on the stock market. Shares”), except in the case where it is deemed that such acquisitions and holdings will contribute to medium-to-long (2) Standards for Voting on Cross-Shareholding Shares term enhancement of the corporate value of the SuMi TRUST SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, which is a core Group, from the perspective of, among other things, establishsubsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings, shall decide to vote for ing a stable transactional relationship over the long term, a busior against each resolution and exercise voting rights pertainness alliance, or facilitating or reinforcing collaborative business ing to the Cross-Shareholding Shares (the “Voting Rights”), development with a business counterparty, in principle. after comprehensively taking into consideration the busiRegarding major holdings from among the Crossness conditions, etc. of the issuer of the Cross-Shareholding Shareholding Shares, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall verShares (the “Issuer”), as well as the impact on sustainable ify, and report at a Board of Directors meeting regarding growth and medium-to-long term enhancement of the corthe medium-to-long term economic rationale for holding porate value of the issuer and the SuMi TRUST Group. them, and the effect of holding them from the aspect of In the case that SuMi TRUST Holdings or SuMi TRUST maintaining and enhancing the overall relationship with Bank is required to pay special attention upon the exercise business counterparties, etc. of voting rights due to a long-term downturn of business In principle, the SuMi TRUST Group shall sell the Crossconditions, a reorganization, or an occurrence of signiﬁShareholding Shares in cases where the signiﬁcance and cant compliance violations, etc., of the issuer, SuMi TRUST rationality of holding them is not observed, after taking Holdings or SuMi TRUST Bank shall decide to vote for or Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 against each resolution after collecting enough informathe exercise of voting rights, SuMi TRUST Holdings and tion through a variety of methods including engaging in SuMi TRUST Bank shall properly deal with the risk pursuant dialogue with the issuer. to the Management Policy Concerning Conﬂicts of Interest In the case that there is a risk of conﬂicts of interest upon prescribed separately. 5. Measures for Protection of Stakeholders’ Interests (1) Management System of Related Party Transactions “Management Policy”) pursuant to laws, etc., in order to When SuMi TRUST Group engages in transactions with its ensure that none of the various services provided by each ofﬁcers or major shareholders, etc., the transactions shall be group company and its related parties unfairly harm the referred to the Board of Directors for prior approval, in order interests of its customers. Pursuant to the Management to ensure that such transactions do not harm, among other Policy, SuMi TRUST Group shall appropriately manage interests, the interests of SuMi TRUST Group or the common transactions that may give rise to a conﬂict of interest, and interests of its shareholders, except where the trading terms shall properly implement its business operations. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . are obviously equivalent to those of general transactions. (3) Compliance Hotline System (2) Management System of Transactions Involving In order to promptly and appropriately respond to any vioConflict of Interest with Customers in lation of laws, etc., SuMi TRUST Group has established a SuMi TRUST Group’s Business Operations compliance hotline system where all ofﬁcers and employSuMi TRUST Group shall separately prescribe the ees can directly report to the Compliance Department or Management Policy Concerning Conﬂicts of Interest (the external law ﬁrms. 6. Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) (1) Outline of the RAF SuMi TRUST Group integrates risk management with establishes risk appetite indicators and systems for the the process of formulation and implementation of manmonitoring thereof. 080 agement plans, aiming to achieve optimization of riskreturn, improved transparency of management plans, and (2) Fostering a Risk Culture increased corporate value over the medium to long term. The SuMi TRUST Group believes in its social role of creSpeciﬁcally, the SuMi TRUST Group conducts stress tests ating distinct values by leveraging a new business model 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t based on risk scenarios reﬂecting the internal and external combining its banking, asset management and adminisenvironment and, within risk tolerance, clariﬁes risks that it tration, and real estate businesses, based on the ﬁduciary is willing to accept (risk appetite) in order to achieve busispirit and with signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive ness strategies and ﬁnancial strategies, whereby managecapabilities. Towards fulﬁlling this role, the SuMi TRUST ment plans shall be formulated. Group has formulated “management principles (mission),” In the meantime, for the purpose of monitoring the an “ideal model (vision)” and “codes of conduct (value)”. progress of management plans, the SuMi TRUST Group The SuMi TRUST Group deﬁnes “risk culture” as a basic philosophy that prescribes the aspects of its operations involving appropriate acceptance of risks, as well as Schematic Diagram of the Risk Appetite Framework proﬁt and risk management based on its business strategies and ﬁnancial strategies, with a view to ensuring adeRisk appetite framework quate proﬁts within the Group’s overall ﬁnancial strength, and in compliance with broad-based social norms, and of course rules including laws and regulations, market rules Management policies and internal rules. Business strategies With a view to fostering a risk culture that takes root Financial strategies across the SuMi TRUST Group, we are endeavoring to have any development on this theme fully shared with, Risk appetite indicator Stress test and known to all ofﬁcers and employees through measures including regular delivery of messages from top management, compliance training, and e-learning. Governance/IT infrastructure Risk culture Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 7. Internal Control ① An internal control system is designed to prevent the occurCompliance ② ⑧ rence of misconduct by putting various mechanisms and Audits by Risk rules into place for the purpose of conducting sound manManagement Corporate Auditors agement in a company. Basically, there are four objectives: (1) effectiveness and efﬁciency of operations, (2) reliability Initiatives based ③ ⑦ of ﬁnancial reporting, (3) compliance with laws and ordiBusiness on the Basic Internal Audit nances concerning business activities, and (4) safeguarding Execution Policy on Internal of assets. Through development and operation of its internal control system, a company can attain these objectives. Control System ④ ⑥ To attain the aforementioned objectives, the Board of Management Information Directors has determined the Basic Policy on the Internal ⑤ Storage and Transparency Management Control System so the Group can attain the aforementioned Group objectives. The basic policy pertains to the following: (1) the Management compliance system (ensures compliance with laws, regulaS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . tions, etc.); (2) the risk management system; (3) the business execution system; (4) the system to ensure management 5) On Group Management transparency; (5) the management system to ensure approFor compliance and risk management structures applipriateness of Group operations; (6) the information storage cable to the entire SuMi TRUST Group, the Compliance and management system; (7) the internal audit system; and Department and Risk Management Department, respec(8) the system for audits by corporate auditors. tively, provide guidance on developing plans to subsidiaries, etc. in order for them to be in line with policies of the 1) On Compliance entire Group. They also monitor the status of management The compliance program formulated to serve as a concrete and operation of the entire Group and provide appropriaction plan and ensure compliance and realize a manageate supervision and guidance, as necessary. In addition, the ment system for client protection and compliance has been Corporate Planning Department receives from subsidiaries approved by the Board of Directors. SuMi TRUST Holdings etc. the minutes of their monthly Board of Directors meetmonitors and evaluates program progress and attainment ings and reports on the status of their business execution and reports thereof to the Board on a regular basis. Based on a regular basis and provides them guidance as well as on the compliance program, SuMi TRUST Holdings guides management and supervision as appropriate. Group subsidiaries and afﬁliates in formulating their com081 pliance programs and monitors and evaluates their prog6) On Information Storage and Management ress and goal attainment. Minutes that record the stage of progress and gist of points discussed at meetings of Annual General Meetings 2) On Risk Management 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t of shareholders, the Board of Directors, and Executive The risk management plans formulated based on the SuMi Committee are prepared and kept with related materials. TRUST Group’s basic risk management policies has been In addition, a speciﬁc implementation plan regarding inforapproved by the Board of Directors. SuMi TRUST Holdings mation security risk management has been approved by monitors and evaluates progress and goal attainment and the Board of Directors, and conditions underlying occurreports the results thereof to the Board on a regular basis. rences of information-related incidents as well as points to Risk management departments develop and operate risk watch, countermeasures, etc. regarding information secumanagement processes to identify, evaluate, monitor, conrity risk management are reported to the Board of Directors trol and reduce risks for which they are responsible. Risk on a regular basis. management departments also monitor the status of risks and risk management activities in order to restrain front 7) On Internal Audit ofﬁce departments and units etc. Internal audit plans have been developed based on the policies for developing internal audit structures for the 3) On Business Execution SuMi TRUST Group established by SuMi TRUST Holdings. The president, other directors and executive ofﬁcers etc. The plans are approved by the Board of Directors after report the status of business execution to the Board of consulting with the Audit Committee. Results of internal Directors on a regular basis and also report on the stage of audits, the status of progress and achievement of internal progress and results of matters the Board has resolved to audit plans are reported to the Board of Directors on a regthe Board. In addition, the Compliance Department proular basis. vides information on legal amendments to operational departments and units on a regular basis, and in-house regulations are established, revised, or eliminated according 8) On Audits by Corporate Auditors to the content of such legal and regulatory amendments. Corporate auditors attend not only the Board of Directors meetings but other important ones, including meetings of 4) On Management Transparency the Executive Committee, as they deem necessary. In addiEvaluation results of internal control systems pertaining to tion, corporate auditors conduct interviews and exchange ﬁnancial reporting are reported to the Board of Directors on a opinions with the president and other directors and corporegular basis. In addition, appropriate information disclosure rate auditors, receive results of internal audits and reports is implemented in accordance with provisions of the Financial regarding information reported through a compliance hotInstruments and Exchange Act, the securities listing rules line on a regular basis, and properly obtain information established by stock exchanges, and in-house regulations. necessary to perform audits effectively. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 8. Regarding Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the Policy for policies, and it shall endeavor to support sustainable Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders, etc. as provided growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the in the “Basic Policy on Corporate Governance”: corporate value of the SuMi TRUST Group, by absorbing • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall emphasize constructive dialogue and reﬂecting analyses of management administration with its shareholders, etc., and shall endeavor to engage in and views from the perspective of capital providers, etc. dialogue with its shareholders, etc. through various opporthrough listening to the voice of the shareholders, etc. tunities under the initiative of its senior management. • Through constructive dialogue, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall To promote constructive dialogue with shareholders, SuMi endeavor to obtain the understanding of its shareholdTRUST Holdings actively conducts IR activities. For details ers, etc. regarding SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management on speciﬁc efforts and measures, please see below. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Activities Regarding IR Supplemental remarks Preparation and SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the Disclosure Policy and disseminates it externally, as well as to SuMi TRUST Group’s ofﬁcers and employees for the purpose of appropriately implementing it. The Disclosure Policy serves as SuMi TRUST Group’s IR activity guidepublication of lines, setting forth that we should make efforts to proactively disclose corporate information which we deem useful for our shareholddisclosure policy ers, investors, etc. in understanding the SuMi TRUST Group, adopting timeliness, accuracy, and fairness as basic requirements therefor. Regular information SuMi TRUST Holdings holds corporate brieﬁngs via securities companies and so on, where the representative director, and the meetings for ofﬁcer and employee in charge of IR explain SuMi TRUST Group’s characteristics, earnings results and ﬁnancial condition, and management strategies, etc. individual investors Regular information SuMi TRUST Holdings holds investor meetings semi-annually (around May and November), inviting securities company analysts meetings for analysts and institutional investors, with the representative director explaining SuMi TRUST Group’s earnings results and management strategies, etc. and institutional Further, SuMi TRUST Holdings holds one-on-one and group meetings for analysts and institutional investors from time to time, investors with the representative director, and the ofﬁcer and employee in charge of IR providing explanations. 082 SuMi TRUST Holdings’ representative director, or the ofﬁcer in charge of IR, visits major institutional investors in the U.S., Europe, Regular information and Asia, etc. several times per year, explaining SuMi TRUST Group’s earnings results and ﬁnancial condition, and management meetings for overseas strategies, etc. Further, SuMi TRUST Holdings regularly participates in IR conferences organized in Japan by securities companies for overseas investors institutional investors, as well as participates in such conferences held overseas. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Promptly after their announcement, SuMi TRUST Holdings discloses various types of IR information and information for shareholders, etc. on its website. The types of information disclosed are, among others, as follows: ﬁnancial results and related explanatory materials; annual securities reports; quarterly securities reports; summary of ﬁnancial results; investor meetings’ presentation materials; the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance; stock information; business reports, annual reports, convocation notices for general shareholders’ Posting of IR materials meetings; results of voting, etc. Videos of investors meetings and corporate brieﬁngs for individual investors are also posted on the website. on website Further, on the page of its website entitled “For Individual Investors,” explanation is provided for individual investors regarding SuMi TRUST Group’s business and operational results in an easy-to-understand format. For overseas institutional investors, too, SuMi TRUST Holdings provides various types of IR information and so on in a timely manner via its English website. Japanese URL: http://smth.jp/IR/index.html English URL: http://smth.jp/en/IR/index.html SuMi TRUST Holdings has appointed an ofﬁcer in charge of IR, as well as established the IR Department as the section in charge Establishment of of daily IR activities. SuMi TRUST Holdings makes efforts to appropriately disclose corporate information, as well as aiming for department and/or highly transparent corporate management through proactive IR activities and constructive dialogues with both domestic and foreign shareholders and investors. manager in charge of Ofﬁcer in charge of IR: Yukihiro Kitano, Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer/Koichi Onaka, Managing Executive Ofﬁcer IR Section in charge of IR: IR Department The General Manager of the IR Department serves as the administrative IR contact person. <Internal organic cooperation to assist dialogues with shareholders> Through cooperation with the management team and each section, the ofﬁcer in charge of IR and the section in charge of IR endeavors to appropriately understand management information and other internal information, and make efforts to disclose such information in a timely, accurate, and fair manner, as well as leverage such information for the purpose of constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors. <Feedback regarding shareholders’ opinions and IR activities to the management team and the Board of Directors> Others We provide timely and appropriate feedback to the management team regarding opinions or concerns, etc. expressed by shareholders, investors, and analysts, etc. In addition to an overall report on IR activities, reports regarding such opinions or concerns, etc. shall be regularly made to the Board of Directors. <Management of insider information during dialogues> For the purpose of the management of insider information, the SuMi TRUST Group regularly disseminates, within the SuMi TRUST Group, the laws, regulations, and rules, etc. which the SuMi TRUST Group is bound to comply with, as well as instructions for the appropriate handling of insider information. Strict management and operation is also conducted during dialogues with shareholders and investors. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 9. CSR of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Fundamental Perspectives of high materiality towards the creation of shared value SuMi TRUST Group’s Basic Policy on Corporate Governance and determines the direction which SuMi TRUST Group sets out the role of the Board of Directors as working to is to take. support the sustainable growth of society and increasing 2) The CSR Council, which is held as part of the Executive the corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group by promoting Committee, formulates medium-term policies on CSR active efforts to resolve environmental and social issues in as well as the policies for each ﬁscal year and manages consideration of its stakeholders. “Creating shared value” the CSR activities of SuMi TRUST Group based on the is the concept of pursuing social value together with corPDCA cycle. porate value. It has long been an issue ingrained in SuMi 3) The CSR Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning TRUST Group’s management. Department plays an integral role in promoting the CSR Dealing with issues of sustainability at the working level activities of SuMi TRUST Group based on the instructions is SuMi TRUST Group’s approach to CSR. As sustainability of ofﬁcers in charge (see page 84). S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . issues can be broken down into the three elements of envi4) CSR ofﬁcers and CSR coordinators have been appointed ronment, society and governance (ESG), we have deﬁned at each group company and each branch of the SuMi our CSR to be the incorporation of ESG into our daily busiTRUST Bank to play a role in promoting CSR activities, ness processes. as well as promoting activities that reduce the environMeanwhile, ESG stems from the concept of responmental burden at each ofﬁce and leading “With You” sible investment that strives to balance the interests of activities (see page 122). various stakeholders while pursuing long-term corporate 5) Group afﬁliates promote CSR activities by formulating value (share prices). In other words, responsible investpolicies on shared initiatives throughout SuMi TRUST ment is described as an investment method that assesses Group and on each of the afﬁliates’ own initiatives speshared value. Therefore, SuMi TRUST Group puts particuciﬁc to the business. Additionally, Group CSR Meetings lar emphasis on the perspective of responsible investment. are held regularly to exchange information. It also serves as the starting point for the identiﬁcation of materiality and undertaking internal engagements. Officer in charge of Masahiro Tsuchiya Structure for Promoting CSR Activities 083 CSR activities (Managing Executive Ofﬁcer) 1) The Board of Directors formulates the Sustainability Policy, while managing CSR activities as a whole in an Head Office Executive of the Tsukasa Kanai effort to enhance the awareness of ofﬁcers and employ2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t CSR Promotion Office, Corpo(Council member and General ees of SuMi TRUST Group. The Board of Directors also rate Planning Department (Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer) Manager in charge of CSR) conducts multi-faceted discussions mainly on themes SuMi TRUST Group’s Structure for Promoting CSR Activities Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Board of Directors Executive Committee (CSR Council) CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Planning Department Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Planning Department Group CSR Meetings Head office departments Business departments/branches Group affiliates CSR officer CSR officer CSR officer CSR coordinators CSR coordinators CSR coordinators Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 The Four Pillars Supporting Activities of the CSR Promotion Office Development of innovative products and ESG Management that aims to create shared value services and rolling out CSV business • Identiﬁcation of materiality and the provision of input to • Development of innovative ﬁnanmanagement cial instruments and services that • Promotion of CSR activities that take into account the will contribute to solving environPDCA cycle and formulation of CSR policies for the ﬁscal mental* and social issues year and medium term *We have coined the word “Eco-Trustution” to describe initiatives that provide solutions to ecological issues through the use of our trust function, and we are actively promoting • Dialogue with departments responsible for matters relevant such initiatives. to high materiality themes through internal engagement • Development of “With You” strategies to address issues • Information disclosure using CSR reports and our website, unique to each region stemming from the issues of an S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . and dialogue with responsible investment (RI) investors, etc. aging society Penetration of CSR and development of the Building sound relationships with stakeholders awareness of officers and employees • Promotion of “With You” activ• Exchanging information with NPOs/NGOs in Japan and ities at the business departoverseas, government organizations and universities, ments and branches, granting etc., and understanding the needs of stakeholders budgets, managing points • Actively participating in international initiatives (UNEP and managing blogs FI, United Nations Global Compact, Business and • Holding various meetings Biodiversity Initiative, Natural Capital Finance Alliance Group CSR meetings ([formerly The Natural Capital Declaration], etc.) Global ESG meetings • Actively participating and playing a leading role in ESG Risk Response Project Team ﬁnancial alliance projects in Japan (Principles for 084 Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee Financial Action for the 21st Century, COLTEM Financial LGBT Matter Information Liaison Committee Satellite, etc.) 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t CSR Medium-term Policies/FY2016 Policies (1) CSR Medium-term Policies (FY2014 to FY2016) Integrating ESG into day-to-day operations, SuMi TRUST Holdings will set the position of CSR as the foundation of SuMi TRUST Group’s sustainable growth Themes Medium-term policies • Raising ESG risk management capability across all operations including loans and investment, SuMi TRUST Holdings Building an ESG management system will integrate it into the overall risk management system. up to international standards • SuMi TRUST Holdings will issue integrated reports that disclose narratives where non-ﬁnancial data make more ﬁnancial value. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will use its group capabilities to develop an ESG business model with total solutions that Developing CSV businesses for helps resolve social problems and increases corporate value. building a sustainable society • SuMi TRUST Holdings will address issues it regards as crucial, designating super-aging society, climate change and natural capital as its highest priorities. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will conduct leadership to nurture ESG markets by using SuMi TRUST Group’s brand to call Working to expand the business scope on stakeholders. (2) FY2016 CSR Policies Themes FY2016 CSR Policies (overview) • Further improve discussions on materiality through internal engagement, further improve non-ﬁnancial data disclosure Building an ESG management system with an eye to preparing integrated reports up to international standards • Support steady application of the Equator Principles, gather information on global trends relating to fossil fuel businesses • Revise human rights policies to respond to LBGT issues • Strategically advance “With You” activities, focus in particular on initiatives with themes linked to super-aging society issues Developing CSV businesses for • Bolster initiatives relating to climate change-linked businesses, which are expected to grow in view of the Paris building a sustainable society Agreement’s adoption • Reinforce our advice functions based on growing interest in ESG • Support healthy development of Japan’s responsible investment (RI) market, which is expected to expand • Actively participate in COLTEM activities based on the themes of ﬁnance and dementia Working to expand the business scope • Help develop and promote sustainability concepts in the ﬁnancial sector, actively participate in Principles for Financial Action in the 21st Century Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Compliance and Conducting Business Activities Fairly 1. Basic Initiative Policy With recent progress in deregulation of the ﬁnancial indusgreatest asset, and achieving compliance is naturally a basic try, ﬁnancial transactions and services are diversifying, principle. Executives and each individual employee must and there is a need to work on various issues by thorough solidly practice compliance in our daily operations. implementation of the self-responsibility principle and self To achieve thorough compliance and an appropriate help efforts in ﬁnancial institutions. Under these conditions, system which suits “The Trust Bank,” the Group has estabto maintain and enhance the trust of clients, sound and lished Codes of Conduct (“Value”) and speciﬁc compliance appropriate management based on strict self-discipline standards in the Compliance Rules. A checking system is essential. From this viewpoint, the SuMi TRUST Group and promotion system are also developed, so the Group S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . positions compliance as one of the most important mancomplies with these and carries out sincere and fair comagement issues. pany activities. By developing these systems, the Group is Compliance means adherence to various rules such as promoting various initiatives to address issues and problaws, regulations, market rules, and internal company rules, lem points and to enable appropriate action based on in addition to conformity to social norms. Trust is the Group’s self-discipline. 2. Outline of Initiatives Group Compliance System The Group positions supervision of the entire group’s comcompliance, a compliance program is made each ﬁscal pliance system as one of its most important functions. SuMi year, and progress status is periodically assessed. TRUST Holdings’ compliance rules establish standards The roles of the Board of Directors, Executive Committee which executives and employees must follow. and other bodies are as follows. For speciﬁc practice plans in various measures on 085 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Group Compliance Structure Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Board of Directors Executive Committee Compliance Department Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Board of Directors Executive Committee Other subsidiaries Compliance Committee Compliance Department XX Business XX Branch XX Branch XX Department XX Department XX Branch XX Subsidiary Department ・ ・・・ ・ ・・・ ・ ・・・ Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Domestic business departments/branches Business departments Overseas network Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 The Roles of the Board of Directors, through regular reporting channels. This hotline system Executive Committee and a Director in Charge enforces rigorous control of information and protection of of the Compliance Department privacy to ensure protection of whistleblowers, who shall 1) The Board of Directors regards the achievement of thornever be adversely treated so long as what and how they ough compliance at the SuMi TRUST Holdings and other report is appropriate and fair. group companies as the most important management There are no restrictions on the compliance hotline on the matter. The Board supervises the development of the type of language used or the hours when reports may be made. compliance system by developing and raising awareThe SuMi TRUST Group posts on its website a contact ness of the compliance policy, Compliance Manual and phone number to which third parties may direct their opinCompliance Program, as well as developing organizaions and requests. tional structures and monitoring and evaluating progress. 2) The Executive Committee makes decisions on matters Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. concerning compliance and undertakes preliminary 03-6256-6000 (Main Number) discussions of matters to be resolved by and reported S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . to the Board of Directors. The Committee refers and Each group company also posts its contact phone number on its reports to the Board of Directors matters concerning website. The phone number for inquiries regarding SuMi TRUST rules and regulations to be approved or communicated Bank is as follows. as well as matters concerning the development of the Customer Service Office department to manage compliance. Weekdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Service is not available on 3) Directors and executive ofﬁcers engage in compliance Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and the period from December 31 oriented business management upon recognizing matto January 3.) ters that need to be considered in accordance with laws *The personal information you will be required to give at the time of inquiries will be treated responsibly by SuMi TRUST Bank. It will only be used in replying to your especially for businesses for which they are responsible, inquiries and not be disclosed to third parties or used for any other purposes within light of the importance of compliance. Additionally, out your consent. the director in charge of the Compliance Department accurately recognizes the situation and considers policies and speciﬁc measures toward the development and establishment of an appropriate compliance system. Response at the Time of Compliance Violations Should a compliance violation occur, a system for report086 ing and managing it has been established at the SuMi 4) The Compliance Department oversees the overall compliTRUST Group by the Risk Management Department. This ance of SuMi TRUST Holdings and other group companies includes a system of customer care, a system for reporting by establishing the rules and manuals necessary for the internally and to the relevant authorities, and measures compliance system, implementing measures and provid2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t to prevent a recurrence (occurrence) of such a violation. ing instruction, dealing with various issues and improving The aim is to ensure appropriate responses, prevent and the training systems, among other efforts. The Compliance reduce accidents, and improve the quality of operations, Department also creates a compliance policy, monitors the among others. situation of compliance management and execution, and In the event of a violation, SuMi TRUST Bank responds reports to the Executive Committee on its ﬁndings regardto the situation and manages it by following the process ing the status of compliance management and execution. outlined below. 1) In the event of a compliance violation, the department SuMi TRUST Bank also established the Compliance in violation will appropriately and promptly make a Department as a department to manage compliance. report and responsibly manage and respond to the situBased on the compliance policy established by SuMi ation from the time the violation occurred until its resoTRUST Holdings, this department creates its compliance lution. Furthermore, upon conducting an investigation policy and Compliance Program, and monitors the situand analysis of the causes of the violation, it will formuation of compliance management and execution. Also, late and implement measures to prevent recurrence. the Compliance Department reports to the Executive Committee on its ﬁndings regarding the status of compli2) Departments responsible for supervising businesses will ance management and execution after examined by the cooperate with the department in violation and impleCompliance Committee, which is chaired by a director who ment responses, investigate the causes and formulate is in charge of the Compliance Department. measures to prevent recurrence. They also conduct case Other subsidiaries develop appropriate compliance sysstudies, raise awareness and implement measures to tems which suit their own operations’ characteristics, based on prevent recurrence within businesses as necessary. the compliance policy established by SuMi TRUST Holdings. 3) Risk management-related departments (the Compliance Compliance Hotline System Department) will provide instructions to the department In order to promptly and appropriately cope with any violain violation and departments responsible for supervising tion, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established a compliance businesses as necessary. In the event a serious violation hotline through which all executives and employees can occurs, a compliance subcommittee will be convened, in directly report violations to the Compliance Department principle, to examine the adequacy of the report and the and an external attorney’s ofﬁce, without having to go appropriateness of the measures to prevent recurrence. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3. Response to Major Compliance Risks Initiatives to Foster Compliance Awareness In order to foster compliance awareness throughout the primary responsibility for providing training as to companyGroup, a Compliance Manual has been created for SuMi wide compliance themes. Meanwhile, the person in charge TRUST Holdings and each group company, and employees of compliance at each company is responsible for enhancare thoroughly informed about laws and regulations as well ing compliance awareness and ensuring thorough complias various rules and items which must be followed. ance with regard to business and product characteristics The Group is also enhancing training courses including and client attributes by implementing training and study in a course for rules to strictly comply with insider trading reghis/her workplace and providing guidance and instructions ulations, and each company’s compliance department has in daily work processes. Compliance Training through e-learning for 2015 (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Month of Course name Content Applicable executives and employees implementation Basic items to promote comprehension: Basics of compliance: FY2015 All employees Compliance & client protection May Training to prevent insider trading & confidential Insider trading prevention, learning the All employees information leaks: May FY2015 basics on managing conﬁdential information Basics of preparedness against antisocial Preparedness against antisocial forces: 1H FY2015 All executives and employees June forces Training to prevent insider trading & confidential Insider trading prevention, learning the All employees information leaks: July FY2015 (written pledge) basics on managing conﬁdential information July Measures to prevent money laundering and similar Meaning and implementation of anti-money All employees at branches/departments practices: 1H FY2015 laundering (AML) measures with ofﬁcers responsible for AML 087 Training to prevent insider trading & confidential Insider trading prevention, learning the All employees information leaks: Nov. FY2015 basics on managing conﬁdential information November 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Conﬁrm changes in burdens and roles of Roles of branches/departments in the All employees at branches/departments branches and departments attendant with post-launch AML system with ofﬁcers responsible for AML AML system rollout Basics of preparedness against antisocial Preparedness against antisocial forces: 2H FY2015 All executives and employees December forces Measures to prevent money laundering and similar Meaning and implementation of anti-money All employees at branches/departments January practices: 2H FY2015 laundering (AML) measures with ofﬁcers responsible for AML Training to prevent insider trading & confidential Insider trading prevention, learning the All employees February information leaks: February FY2016 (written pledge) basics on managing conﬁdential information Major Compliance Risks • Leakage of customer information • Disregard for information disclosure • Inappropriate acquisition and use of personal information • Illegal payoffs • Lack of credibility in products and services offered • Inhibiting free and fair competition • Violation of the principle of suitability • Insider trading and other forms of unfair trading • Inadequate explanations to customers • Violation of Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act • Insincere responses to customer consultations and complaints • Infringement of intellectual property rights • Relationships with customers that lack moderation • Opaque relationships with government authorities • Transactions with conflicts of interests • Dealings with antisocial forces • Inappropriate accounting treatment • Money laundering Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Due Diligence in Transactions transactions with us. The measure gives us the legal grounds Before conducting each transaction, SuMi TRUST Bank to dissolve contracts, once the presence of antisocial forces checks whether a potential customer has any connections to is detected, after the commencement of transactions. antisocial forces, as well as performing checks at the time of If the counterparty in a transaction is shown to be as the transaction based on the Act on Prevention of Transfer an antisocial force after the commencement of a transof Criminal Proceeds and the Foreign Exchange and Foreign action, we have developed a framework that allows us Trade Act. Additionally, transactions with customers of counto take measures in close coordination with police and tries considered high-risk according to the Act on Prevention other external expert organizations for the eventual canof Transfer of Criminal Proceeds are subject to even more cellation of such a transaction. stringent checks at the time the transaction is made. Foreign In addition, in order to strengthen awareness about and exchange transactions are subject to checks on whether the systems to deal with antisocial forces, in ﬁscal year 2015, counterparty is an individual or entity designated for ecoSuMi TRUST Bank provided all executives and employees nomic sanctions such as the freezing of assets. If a customer with training for the prevention of transactions with antisorequests payment to or a capital transaction with such a councial forces once each half of the year. terparty, SuMi TRUST Bank conducts strict checks on whether S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . permission has been obtained from relevant authorities. Management of Conformity with Legal Revisions Head ofﬁce departments of SuMi TRUST Bank gather Prevention of Money Laundering information on legal revisions and report them to the Money laundering is the act of hiding the source of money Compliance Department. The Department centrally manobtained illegally (for example, through the sale of illeages information on the revisions and instructs and mangal drugs) by routing such money through multiple banks ages the related departments to respond to them in an or bank accounts. Terrorists and perpetrators of remitappropriate manner. tance scams are examples of people who may abuse the accounts of ﬁnancial institutions. It is the responsibility of Prevention of Insider Trading ﬁnancial institutions to prevent the misuse of ﬁnancial serThe Group prevents insider trading and other wrongdovices. Such efforts are referred to as “Money Laundering ings by strictly managing insider information that may be Prevention Countermeasures.” obtained during the execution of job duties. In order to prevent money laundering, etc., SuMi TRUST Speciﬁcally, the “Rules on Insider Information Management” Bank conducts checks on personal identiﬁcation items, obligates employees to immediately report to their supervisuch as the name and address, as well as customer mansors when they have obtained information that may consti088 agement items, such as the transaction purpose and occutute insider information. General managers at branches and pation, when starting continuous business relationships, departments strictly manage and report insider information when conducting large-lot cash transactions, or when conto the necessary departments while it is completely prohibducting transactions with persons who reside or stay in ited to communicate such information to departments other speciﬁed countries. than those deemed necessary. At entrusted asset business 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Additionally, SuMi TRUST Bank has adopted an antiunits, entrusted asset supervision departments are responsimoney laundering (AML) system, which veriﬁes whether ble for managing insider information. any illicit transfers between accounts have taken place. Moreover, particularly strict measures are taken to shield In addition, when they come across transactions susinformation so as to prevent communication of insider inforpected to be related to money obtained illegally or terrormation to departments involved in investment (asset manist ﬁnancing, employees immediately report to the person agement). In addition, in entrusted asset businesses, the in charge, who notiﬁes the relevant authorities. When the “Guidelines on Contact, etc. with Securities Companies, etc.” use of accounts for illegal purposes, such as “furikome” have been formulated to prohibit any inappropriate contact fraud, has been found, SuMi TRUST Bank strives to prevent between personnel responsible for asset management and expansion of the damage by quickly taking such measures sales personnel of securities companies in principle. as freezing the accounts. SuMi TRUST Bank has developed a training system SuMi TRUST Bank obligates employees at relevant on a whole company basis. In ﬁscal year 2015, a training branches and departments to periodically receive training program for prevention of insider trading targeted at all concerning prevention of money laundering, etc. In ﬁscal year employees was implemented four times (four additional 2015, such training was provided to all employees at the reltimes at entrusted asset business units). In addition, all evant branches and departments once each half of the year. Response to Antisocial Forces Antisocial forces refer not only to organized crime groups Progress in the implementation of the meaand their members, but also to individuals and companies sures to prevent recurrence of insider trading with ties to them, who may threaten public order and the We have implemented all the measures to prevent security of civil society. The Group has declared, both interrecurrence of insider trading that were announced by nally and externally, its resolute stance against antisocial forces in its Code of Conduct (“Value”) and various other the SuMi TRUST Group in March and June 2012. We codes. We have established a system for investigating and are continuously conducting regular monitoring of the conducting systematic checks in all types of transactions in status of their implementation and consolidation. order to prevent transactions by antisocial forces. We have also incorporated a clause to exclude orga*Details of the violation of insider trading regulations that occurred in 2012 are described nized crime in the provision of our loan and money transfer in the 2012 CSR Report. contracts. This clause deters antisocial forces from initiating URL: http://www.smth.jp/en/csr/report/2012/2012e_04.pdf Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 executives and employees were required to submit written on problems with legal tax avoidance schemes that use oaths pledging to comply with internal rules, etc. concernloopholes in national tax systems created by BEPS*1 adoping prevention of insider trading twice during the ﬁscal year tion and problems with tax havens that have been opened (two additional times at entrusted asset business units). up to public scrutiny by the Panama Papers*2 leaks. The Group has over the years properly met its tax obliFair Trade with Outsourced Contractors gations in accordance with its basic policy concerning tax When outsourcing its operations, the Group takes meacompliance, and we amended this policy in August 2016 sures to ensure that the outsourced operation is consigned to clarify the appropriateness of our international tax practo a contractor capable of: (1) establishing regulations for tices as a global company, adding transfer pricing docuthe appropriate management of risks from unexpected mentation as a response to the attention on this topic. losses incurred by the Group or its clients, (2) recognizing Our response was aimed at further raising awareness problems related to the quality of service and the reliability about tax among our directors, executive ofﬁcers, and of service continuity, and (3) implementing the operation employees and thereby ensure compliance with tax laws accurately, fairly, and efﬁciently. We also verify whether or and appropriate fulﬁllment of our tax obligations. Through not outsourced contractors are antisocial in nature before such efforts and the balancing of the interests of various S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . entering into new contracts, and we repeat this veriﬁcation stakeholders such as clients, investors, national governon a regular basis. The purpose is to prevent transactions ments and local communities from an overall perspective, with antisocial forces and to eliminate interference from the Group conducts its corporate activities in ways that are them (please refer to Page 67). not contrary to social norms. *1 BEPS is an acronym for base erosion and profit shifting. It is increasingly evident that Prevention of “Dango” Bid Rigging and Cartels many multinational companies lighten their tax burden via excessive pursuit of stratAs the Antimonopoly Act is intended to promote “fair and egies for tax reduction using gaps and loopholes in the international tax system. To effectively address these issues, the OECD approved the BEPS action plan in October free competition” in order to secure consumers’ interests 2015 and recommended measures in the plan to member countries. Japan reflected and promote democratic and sound development of the these recommendations into its tax system revisions in fiscal year 2016. national economy, it sets basic rules for the free economy, *2 In April 2016, the Panama Papers refers to documents leaked from a Panamanian law firm that were released by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists such as a ban on unfair restrictions on transactions (cartel). (ICIJ). Reporting based on these documents raised concerns about both individuals In order to comply with the Antimonopoly Act, the Group and corporations using tax havens for international tax evasion schemes as well as has formulated a compliance manual concerning compliabout aggressive tax avoidance and violations of anti-money laundering regulations. How to respond to these revelations is a subject of debate in many countries and ance with the Antimonopoly Act and has established a rule multi-lateral organizations such as the OECD. requiring checks related to the prohibition of joint activities, abuse of a superior position and false and misleading 089 advertising indications at individual business units and is strictly enforcing them. Prevention of Bribery 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t The SuMi TRUST Group has set forth rules to be followed by ofﬁcers and employees for the prevention of bribery, etc. in the Tax Compliance Policy Compliance Rules and prohibits the following transactions. • Prohibition of providing entertainment or granting favors Tax Law Compliance in excess of an acceptable level to interested parties, pubWe comply with rules regarding taxes such as national lic servants and shareholders of SuMi TRUST Holdings tax laws, directives and tax treaties and properly fulﬁll • Prohibition of receiving entertainment or favors in excess our tax obligations. of an acceptable level from interested parties or others • Prohibition of activities that mix individual and public Response to Tax-related Risks interests The Group recognizes risks relating to taxes as an • Prohibition in principle of holding concurrent posts and important issue from a management viewpoint. In dual employment a context where we balance the interests of various • Prohibition of being in a position that has a conﬂict of interstakeholders such as clients, investors, national govest with SuMi TRUST Holdings and other group compaernments and local communities from an overall pernies in conducting business operations and using one’s professional position to beneﬁt oneself or a third party spective, we appropriately manage tax-related risks and conduct our corporate activities. Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Relationship with the Tax Authority The Copyright Act and other laws ban the use of intellecWe build a relationship of trust with the tax authority tual property rights such as copyrights without permission. The Group, while protecting the intellectual property rights by enhancing transparency through information disof group companies, ensures employees’ thorough comclosure and other means. pliance with those laws by specifying, in the compliance The Group documents transactions that commanual, the prohibition of copying and use of other perply with the principle of arms’ length transactions sons’ copyrighted materials, etc. without permission. between independent companies for transactions that cross borders but are between Group compaSumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Basic Policy nies. We have put into place systems we can explain concerning Tax Compliance The tax practices of large multinational corporations have to the tax authority of each country where we operate. become a focal point of public attention, shining a spotlight Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Risk Management 1. Basic Philosophy on Risk Management Reducing various risks surrounding a company is indispensof a risk management system suited to the characteristics able in averting any damage to its corporate value. Even so, of its operations and environmental changes as one of the strengthening the company’s risk management structure most important management issues it faces. Accordingly, ensures a robust corporate foundation and contributes to SuMi TRUST Group is making constant efforts to enhance the enhancement of its corporate value. As the trust bank and advance its risk management, which forms the basis of group which boasts the largest scale and the highest staoperations that support business expansion and sustaintus in Japan, SuMi TRUST Group regards the development able growth of SuMi TRUST Group. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 2. Risk Management Structure The roles and responsibilities of the management structure the implementation of such arrangements, among and principal departments related to risk management are other efforts. as follows. 3) The front ofﬁces, pursuant to the Risk Management Rules and other related risk management regulations, The Responsibilities and accurately recognize risks and conducts operations Roles of Each Governing Body including practicing appropriate controls commensu1) The Board of Directors formulates policies on the identirate with the size and characteristics of the risk with the ﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and reduction goal of ensuring the effectiveness of risk management. of risks, formulates management plans that include the 4) The risk management-related departments develop Risk Capital Allocation Plan and Risk Management Plan and implement risk management processes including and informs SuMi TRUST Group of the plans. The Board the identiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and 090 also builds an appropriate reporting system and grants reduction of risks under their control. To achieve effecthe necessary authority for it, among other efforts. tive checks on the front ofﬁces, the risk management2) The Executive Committee, pursuant to the policies set related departments plan and promote risk management forth by the Board of Directors, approves arrangements systems by monitoring the risk status and risk manage2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t for the identiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control ment activities of the front ofﬁces and by making reports and reduction of risks and develops systems to enable to management periodically or as necessary. Risk Management Structure Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings General Meeting of Shareholders Nominating and Compensation Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Board of Corporate Auditors Executive Committee Corporate Auditors Enterprise Risk Management Committee Business Management Committee Internal Audit Department Risk Management-related Departments Corporate Risk Management Department Risk Management Department IT & Business IT & Business IT & Business Legal Dept., Human Corporate Process Planning Process Planning Process Planning Compliance Resources Administration Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Credit Market Funding Operational Business Information Legal & Human Processing System Risk Security Compliance Resource Event Risk Reputational Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Enterprise Risk Management *Crisis management is handled across risk categories Consultation & Reporting Supervision & Guidance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Other Group Companies Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Multi-tiered Risk Management (iii) Third Line of Defense (Risk Assurance) SuMi TRUST Holdings has adopted the Three Lines of • The third line of defense veriﬁes the appropriateness of Defense model as a risk management system. This enables risk-taking and risk governance. risk-taking with the goal of achieving the proﬁt plans of each business based on company-wide business strategies. The Under this system, each line is monitored and controlled system also allows for appropriate revisions to the business by high-level bodies, i.e. various committees, the Executive model in line with changes in the risk status and implements Committee and the Board of Directors. appropriate responses in emergency situations. The Three Lines of Defense comprise the following. Board of Directors Management (i) First Line of Defense (Risk-taking) • The ﬁrst line of defense assesses risks and the situation Executive Committee at hand based on knowledge of services and products. Internal Auditing External Auditing • In the event that a risk materializes, the ﬁrst line of defense Credit Risk ALM Various responds promptly on the on-site level and implements S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Committee Committee committees recovery measures. Senior managers Senior (ii) Second Line of Defense (Risk Governance) Managers/ (Officers in charge, general managers, etc.) managers • The second line of defense identiﬁes and evaluates Business Front offices of each business, Each business management company-wide risks and monitors and controls the sales, investments and loans department determined risk limits. • The second line of defense formulates recovery strateSecond Line Third Line First Line of Defense gies when risks materialize. of Defense of Defense 3. Risk Management Operations Types of Risk we apply risk capital allocation management and conduct SuMi TRUST Group classiﬁes risk categories by causes of stress tests, and based on basic policies established by the risks it faces in its management as a whole into “credit the Group, we execute appropriate management to optirisk,” “market risk,” “funding risk” and “operational risk.” mize risk-return performance and increase corporate value 091 SuMi TRUST Group manages these risks in accordance by evaluating our capital adequacy level and reporting on with their respective characteristics. these to the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, etc. on a regular basis. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Risk Management Methods SuMi TRUST Holdings has established a department to (2) Risk Capital Allocation Operations supervise the overall group risk management and monitor For the purpose of the SuMi TRUST Group’s capital allocation the risk status of SuMi TRUST Group as a whole, and has operations, SuMi TRUST Holdings assesses capital adequacy designated other risk management-related departments level, in consideration of the external environment, risk-return to supervise risk management for each risk category. These performance status, strategic targets, and the results of its departments provide appropriate supervision of and guidstress test, and allocates capital of the SuMi TRUST Group ance to group companies as needed. to each group company based on its risks (credit risk, market SuMi TRUST Holdings has also established Risk risk, and operational risk). The risk capital allocation plan is Management Rules covering the basic points of risk mansubject to the approval of the Board of Directors. agement for SuMi TRUST Group as a whole. It has clariﬁed Each group company operates its business in complithe authority and organizational structure so that it can ance with the allocated amount of risk capital (risk capital). appropriately perform a series of activities, which include The risk management supervision department monitors the identiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and adherence to the allocated risk capital (risk capital) and the reduction of risks. SuMi TRUST Holdings has also created risk amount status on a monthly basis and reports to the risk management policies and plans (the Risk Management Board of Directors and others. Plan and the Risk Capital Allocation Plan). The risk capital allocation plan is reexamined semianGroup companies develop appropriate risk managenually, and also whenever deemed necessary due to modment systems suited to the characteristics of their own iﬁcations to the business plan of any one of the group operations and risks, based on SuMi TRUST Holdings’ polcompanies or changes in risk status, etc. icy concerning risk management. (3) Assessment of Capital Adequacy Level, Capital Strategy Enterprise Risk Management The capital management departments assess the level of (1) Enterprise Risk Management Approach capital adequacy from the viewpoint of soundness each SuMi TRUST Group has built an enterprise risk management time a risk capital allocation plan is formulated or reexamapproach using risk management as a framework to ensure ined, and reports to the Board of Directors and others. sound management that keeps risks within the bounds of The SuMi TRUST Group assesses capital adequacy level our corporate strength. Using enterprise risk management, multilaterally by establishing multiple deﬁnitions of capital Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 and risk as follows. the results to the Board of Directors etc. within the reportFrom the viewpoint of ensuring business continuity, the ing framework that has been established. SuMi TRUST Group assesses the capital adequacy level by comparing the amount of risk with a conﬁdence inter(5) Capital Adequacy Status val of 99% with the regulatory required Common Equity Under the risk capital allocation plan, against total capiTier 1 capital (allocation fund). Also, from the viewpoint tal of ¥3,051.8 billion (Common Equity Tier 1 capital of of depositor protection, it compares the amount of risk ¥2,240.9 billion) of SuMi TRUST Holdings on a consolidated with a conﬁdence interval of 99.9% and the amount of risk basis, the allocated risk capital (risk capital) is ¥1,630.1 bilwith a conﬁdence interval of 99% after the consideration of lion. Risk capital actually used (risk weights) is ¥1,139.7 bilstress events with the regulatory required total capital. lion. In addition, the net difference of ¥1,421.7 billion from subtracting allocated risk capital (risk capital) from total (4) Stress Testing capital is at a sufﬁcient level in view of the results of stress It is becoming increasingly important to develop and tests and other factors. review countermeasures beforehand, against contingencies such as a ﬁnancial crisis. These measures should be (6) Upgrading of Integrated Risk Management and S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . based on prior analysis and recognition of the impact on Capital Management Systems corporate management and ﬁnance, in the event of mateThe SuMi TRUST Group will continuously verify the scope rialization of the stress event. of risk to be managed, risk measurement methods, risk The SuMi TRUST Group conducts stress tests under the capital allocation methods, capital adequacy level assessrisk capital allocation plan (economic capital) and the capiment methods, etc., so that integrated risk management tal adequacy ratio plan (regulatory capital), and utilizes the and capital management will be more effective, and will result for purposes including assessment of capital adestrive to improve and upgrade the systems. quacy levels and development of countermeasures against the occurrence of the risks (contingency plan) when formuCrisis Management Posture lating management plans. The Group has established emergency response headquarter functions with the president serving as the head • Stress Test Framework in the event of emergencies, such as natural disasters, When formulating our management plan, we devise mulsystem impairments, and outbreaks of new infectious tiple scenarios as a point of departure for discussion such diseases. This will enable us to respond to emergencies as the impact on our portfolio if events that actually hapswiftly and properly. 092 pened in the past 10 to 20 years reoccurred (historical sceIn the event of an emergency, we ﬁrst secure the safety narios) and forward-looking scenarios that have a relatively of customers, executives and employees, and their famihigh probability of occurrence depending on the market lies, and adhering to the business continuity plans (BCPs) environment that would have a large impact on corporate in place, we work to ensure business functions continue to 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t management (hypothetical scenarios). The next step is to operate smoothly. To ensure the effectiveness of such sysreview and make a ﬁnal selection of scenarios for use in fortems, we periodically conduct exercises and make revisions mulating the plan. Based on these scenarios, we estimate to our BCPs. the size of losses in the event a risk were realized, evaluate the impact against our capital adequacy level, and report Capital Allocation Scheme Capital and Risk Capital (within a 99% confidence Each group company operates its business so that the risk interval, 1 year holding period) amount stays within the scope of allocated capital (Billions of Yen) Other group companies 3,500 Risk capital 3,051.8 Allocation of capital to each group company 3,000 Risk Tier 2 amount Other 2,500 810.9 Risk capital 2,000 Capital Risk Allocated fund amount 1,630.1 28.8 1,500 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Operational risk Tier 1 1,139.7 Risk amount 28.8 1,000 2,240.9 1,129.5 Risk capital Market risk 729.7 (includes cross-shareholdings, etc.) Risk 500 amount 471.7 381.1 Credit risk 0 Capital Risk capital Risk amount Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Response to ESG Risks The need has become greater than ever before for compaKey Initiatives in 2016 nies to step up their responses toward environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks, as the necessity for compaCommence We drew up internal operating rules based on evaluation procedures for environmental and nies to be mindful of sustainability issues grows increasingly Application social impacts and policies for protecting the stronger. While certain items under ESG risks overlap with of Equator environment and communities, and commenced operational risks (see page 94), these risks also contain new Principles evaluations of individual projects (see page 96). themes never perceived before. In December 2013, SuMi We revised our human rights policy to add text Revise Human TRUST Group established the ESG Risk Response Project Rights Policy prohibiting discrimination against LGBT and disTeam (sponsor is the CSR Promotion Ofﬁce), where related abled peoples (see page 116). departments jointly engage and discuss many facets of ESG We identiﬁed climate change risks based on the risks. The CSR Promotion Ofﬁce hosts the monthly global latest trends among global ﬁnancial institutions Response to following the Paris Agreement, formulated poliCSR meeting jointly with related departments, gathers the Climate Change cies on how to respond, and discussed this set latest ESG information that is being discussed globally, and Issues of issues at meetings of our Board of Directors puts to use its understanding of latent ESG risks. (see page 7). S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Management Status of Individual Risks Credit Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to the value of an asset (including off-balance sheet assets) decreasing or impairing owing to such reasons as deteDefinition rioration in the ﬁnancial condition of an obligor. Of this, “country risk” in particular means risk that the Group incurs losses on credit provided overseas, due to foreign exchange, political and economic conditions of the country of the obligor. • A credit risk management system and an asset evaluation management system are developed to ensure the soundness and adequacy of credit-related operations, in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide credit risk management. Meanwhile, we are dealing with obligors, based on the understanding that it is critical to keep informed of the obligors’ actual business status and provide them with management consultation and guidBasic policy ance along with assistance for business improvement initiatives, in an effort to mitigate credit risk. • Likewise, the afﬁliated banks engage in appropriate credit risk management based on risk management systems established in accordance with the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for credit risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings and engages in monitorRisk ing and analysis of the credit risk status across the Group. The department also provides supervision and guidance to afﬁliated banks and companies. management • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for credit risk management at afﬁliated banks as well, while the credit supervisystem sion departments, the departments responsible for problem loans management, and the departments responsible for asset evaluation/management are designated as departments responsible for credit risk-related management. 093 An obligor’s business status is managed on a consolidated basis across the Group. Not only loans but also assets and off-balance sheet assets associated Risk with credit risk are managed on an integrated basis. management Credit risk is evaluated and measured using criteria including credit ratings, while credit risk is adequately controlled through measures such as the impomethod sition of risk limits and management of concentrated credit risk. The status of credit portfolio (concentration of credit to certain industry sectors or speciﬁc 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t groups) is also adequately grasped and controlled. Market Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to ﬂuctuations in the value of assets/liabilities (including off-balance sheet assets/liabilities), or in the earnings generated from assets/liabilities, due to ﬂuctuations in various market risk factors, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodities, and credit spreads. Of this, “market Definition liquidity risk” in particular means risk that the Group incurs losses caused in a situation where it becomes impossible to conduct transactions in the market or becomes obligatory to trade at prices much more disadvantageous than usual due to market turmoil. • Adequate market risk management is in place, commensurate with the Group’s strategic goals as well as the scale, characteristics, and risk proﬁle of business activities, to ensure the soundness and adequacy of business activities, in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide market Basic policy risk management. • Our afﬁliated banks also engage in market risk management in accordance with risk management policies established on the basis of the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for market risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings and engages in Risk monitoring and analysis of market risk status across the Group. The department also provides supervision and guidance to afﬁliated banks. management • An adequate market risk management framework is in place at our afﬁliated banks, where the front ofﬁce (trading/marketing departments), the back system ofﬁce (administrative departments), and the middle ofﬁce (departments responsible for market risk management) are separated to achieve effective checks and balances between them. Market risk is managed through monitoring and control of the status of conformity to the risk limits established based on risk capital allocatRisk ed commensurate with the ﬁnancial strength of each organizational unit, and to the alarm points established to prevent enlargement of loss. management Meanwhile, market risk is measured by VaR (Value at Risk: the maximum amount of loss anticipated within a certain holding period and within a certain method conﬁdence interval), while stress testing is carried out to supplement such VaR-based measurement. Interest rate risk in the banking book in terms of the outlier criteria under Basel II is managed by regular monitoring. Funding Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses in a situation where it becomes impossible to secure necessary funds or becomes obligatory to raise funds at interest Definition rates signiﬁcantly higher than usual. • Adequate funding risk management is in place, commensurate with the Group’s strategic goals as well as the scale, characteristics, and risk proﬁle of business activities to ensure the soundness and adequacy of business activities, in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide funding Basic policy risk management. • Our afﬁliated banks also engage in funding risk management in accordance with risk management policies established on the basis of the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for funding risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings and engages in Risk monitoring and analysis of funding risk status across the Group. The department also provides supervision and guidance to afﬁliated banks. management • At our afﬁliated banks, an adequate funding risk management framework is in place, where the independence of the department responsible for system funding risk management from the departments responsible for funding management and the trading/marketing departments is ensured to achieve effective checks and balances between them. Risk We adequately grasp the current degree of tightness of funding under the stipulated classiﬁcation, based on analysis of information collected from domestic management and overseas sources. We conduct funding operations in compliance with adequate predetermined limits in order to avoid funding risk and carry out stress method testing to develop contingency plans, thus ensuring crisis preparedness. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Operational Risk Definition Risk that the Group incurs losses resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. • Adequate operational risk management is in place, commensurate with the scale and characteristics of business activities and risks, based on the recognition that operational risk is an inevitable risk associated with business execution, to ensure the soundness and adequacy of business activities, in Basic policy accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide operational risk management. • Our afﬁliated banks also engage in operational risk management in accordance with risk management policies established on the basis of the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for overall operational risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings, while Risk departments responsible for business processing risk and system risk are separately designated. management The Risk Management Department also engages in monitoring and analysis of overall operational risk status across the Group, while providing supervision and system guidance to the afﬁliated banks. • Likewise at the afﬁliated banks, departments responsible for the above three risk categories are separately designated. The Group regularly carries out self-assessments with respect to internal control (CSA: Control Self Assessment) and measurement of operational risk to Risk adequately identify and assess the risk from both qualitative and quantitative aspects. On this basis, the Group develops measures for preventing such management risk from materializing, action plans in the event it does materialize, and recurrence prevention measures based on the analysis of its causal factors, in an method effort to mitigate risk. Risk mitigation measures developed through the above exercise are tested for its effectiveness, as part of the process for review and improvement thereof. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Operational Risk Sub-categories Business Processing Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to inappropriate business procedures arising from executives or employees neglecting to engage in proper Definition business activities, or other incidents such as accident or fraud. The IT & Business Process Planning Department is responsible for business processing risk. The Department comprehensively deliberates such risks and Risk management operational efﬁciency issues across businesses. It also promotes the development of systems to ensure effective management of business processing method risks from a company-wide perspective. Additionally, a department to supervise and instruct business process has been established within each business to verify rules they set out and to instruct and train the head ofﬁce departments and branches on business processing in general. System Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to such reasons as computer system failure, malfunction and defects, as well as the risk that the Group incurs Definition losses due to unauthorized use of a computer. The reliability of hardware, software and system operations is being enhanced through measures such as hardware maintenance and securing its 094 Risk management backup and alternative functions, conducting backups and preparing manuals. Measures are also being taken to ensure the safety of information systems and prevent unauthorized access and use. Additionally, a clear notiﬁcation and response system has been established to minimize the impact method of malfunctions and disasters on information systems and enable quick recovery and business continuity. This system is complemented by the preparation of manuals for back-up measures and recovery procedures and the implementation of operational education and training. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Information Security Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses because information assets are not properly maintained or managed. This includes information leaks, incorrect Definition information, an inability to use the information system or misuse of information. Each information asset held has been assigned an importance level according to the degree of damage its leakage, loss, alteration, etc. could have on Risk management SuMi TRUST Holdings and its customers. Appropriate security measures are being taken. This effort involves determining the methods for acquiring, method using, managing, storing, internally communicating, taking out and disposing information assets depending on their level of importance. * For responses to cyber attacks, see page 95. Legal & Compliance Risk Definition Risk that the Group incurs losses due to uncertain legal aspects of transactions, or due to insufﬁcient compliance with laws, regulations, etc. Risk management The consistency and compatibility of internal rules and the legality and appropriateness of transactions and business operations are being veriﬁed method from a legal perspective (through legal checks, etc.). Human Resource Risk Definition Risk that the Group incurs losses due to personnel and labor management issues, such as unequal or unfair management of personnel and harassment. Risk management A management system is in place to deal with personnel and labor management issues such as unfairness and inequality in personnel matters and method harassment. The system involves internal seminars, interviews and establishing consultation desks. Event Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to external events that impair business, such as natural disasters, crimes such as terrorism, damage to public Definition infrastructure that prevents its functioning, the spread of infectious diseases, and the inappropriate use or management of tangible assets. Preventive measures for disasters and their mitigation, crime and safe-driving management are being implemented. Business continuity manageRisk management ment systems have also been developed. The aim is to deal with a variety of incidents including ﬁres, crimes, trafﬁc accidents, natural disasters and method epidemics that can disrupt operations. * See page 95 for information on crisis management and business continuity plans (BCP) in the event of disasters. Reputational Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses as a result of deterioration in reputation for SuMi TRUST Holdings or its subsidiaries, owing to such reasons as Definition mass media reports, rumors or speculation. Risk management A system is in place to prevent media coverage, rumors and hearsay that threaten to impair the reputation of SuMi TRUST Holdings and its subsidiarmethod ies. The system also provides customer care and makes prompt and appropriate public announcements in the event of reputational damage. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Crisis Management and Business Continuity Plan in Emergencies Initiatives Conducted by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank have develof a major earthquake, SuMi TRUST Bank, which has oped contingency plans in order to quickly implement branches across Japan, periodically conducts exercises in emergency response measures in the event of emergenorder to make a response that gives consideration to the cies, such as natural disasters, computer system breaksafety of customers and employees and to business contidowns and outbreaks of new infectious diseases. nuity and ensure the effectiveness of the response. Moreover, regarding important business operations, such As for company-wide response, in order to enhance as ﬁnancial settlement, SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi the effectiveness of the functions of the emergency TRUST Bank have developed systems to continue busiresponse headquarters, the Group is strengthening sysness, including BCPs (business continuity plans) and backup tems for information gathering and information coordiofﬁces. In order to ensure the effectiveness of such systems, nation, in addition to periodically conducting exercises, they periodically conduct exercises and revise BCPs. and it is also promoting the enhancement of emergency When the crisis is serious and its impact is extensive, causresponse systems in the Osaka area on the assumption S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . ing serious disruptions to the normal business operations of of a disaster in the Tokyo area. SuMi TRUST Bank and the Group and making it necessary to Meanwhile, branches are striving to strengthen response urgently make comprehensive and high-level management capability through periodic exercises and are promoting judgment, the Group will establish an emergency response disaster countermeasures in light of the location condition, headquarters as a company-wide response organization and the status of principal facilities and individual branches’ will quickly implement emergency response measures. speciﬁc circumstances. Branches are also developing a sysIn particular, in preparation for the possible occurrence tem for mutual support among them. Code of Conduct for Executives and Employees 1. Executives and employees must fully recognize and understand the importance of crisis management and prepare for emergencies. At the same time, they must strive to develop their knowledge in normal times so that they can quickly and appropriately respond in the event of an emergency. 2. In the event of an emergency, executives and employees must make judgments and take actions based on the following principles: 095 (1) Securing the safety of life their utmost to take risk mitigation measures to guard against In the event of an emergency, the top priority must be placed adverse effects that may disrupt business activities. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t on securing the safety of customers, executives and employ(3) Business Continuity and Early Restoration ees, and their families. Executives and employees must also always give priority to humanitarian considerations when takIn the event of an emergency, executives and employees ing various emergency response measures. must strive to quickly restore and continue priority business operations. (2) Protection of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank’s Corporate Assets By taking disaster prevention and mitigation measures in prep(4) Cooperation with Local Communities aration for the possible occurrence of emergencies, executives In the event of an emergency, executives and employees and employees must protect Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank’s cormust strive to cooperate with local communities in rescue and porate assets in the event of an emergency. They must also do other local activities. Cyber Attacks Response to Threat of Cyber Attacks The threat of cyber attacks and the damage they can inﬂict Cyber Security are growing both in Japan and overseas. SuMi TRUST Holdings is engaged in the following activities to protect the precious assets of our customers from the attacks. Core banking Various cyber attacks Security measures system of SuMi TRUST Improvement of Internal Response Systems in Bank Preparation of Cyber Attacks To respond to cyber attacks, SuMi TRUST Holdings monitors computer systems of SuMi TRUST Bank around the clock. In Illicit withdrawals from customers’ addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established SuMiTRUSTdeposit accounts CSIRT as an internal organization for gathering information, conducting analysis and implementing measures relating to cyber attacks, and coordinates with outside expert organizations to strengthen its management system. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Enhancement of Internet Banking Transaction Security In terms of internet banking, SuMi TRUST Bank offers “Rapport,” a type of security software speciﬁcally for interClimate Change net banking, free of charge to help shield customers’ preThe Financial Stability Board (FSB) has called attencious deposits from fraudulent transactions. tion to the potential exposure of ﬁnancial instituSuMi TRUST Holdings will continue to keep abreast of tions to various kinds of risks accompanying the other companies’ moves and new technologies and impleemergence of climate change issues (see page 10). ment robust security measures so that customers’ transacBased on this recognition, SuMi TRUST Bank identitions remain safe. The measures include the early detection ﬁes risks by envisioning how they could materialize and prevention of unauthorized remittances. in the future (see page 11). S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Environmental and Social Considerations in Project Finance SuMi TRUST Bank became a signatory to the Equator environment and the regional community. SuMi TRUST Bank Principles in February 2016. This set of guidelines for prialso believes it is the responsibility of a sound ﬁnancial instivate ﬁnancial institutions requires due consideration of the tution to avert or mitigate risks of deterioration in loan impact on the natural environment and the regional comreceivables due to project suspensions as a result of envimunity when approving project ﬁnance. ronmental or social problems. When we identiﬁed priority issues (materiality) regardThe Equator Principles ing sustainability at the SuMi TRUST Group, we realized the The Equator Principles are standards that enable privateimportance of environmental and social risks and/or impacts sector ﬁnancial institutions approving loans for a largewhen investing. In recognition of the necessity of integratscale project to conﬁrm the project pays sufﬁcient care to ing risk management procedures based on the Equator 096 impacts on the natural environment and regional commuPrinciples, the global standard for private-sector ﬁnancial nities. Regardless of the country where the project is sited institutions, we have adopted them into our project ﬁnance or industry, the Principles apply to project ﬁnance, projectcredit decision processes. related corporate loans (PRCL), and bridge loans that are 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t intended to be re-ﬁnanced by a project ﬁnance or PRCL. The Equator Principles are based on guidelines and Factoring in the environmental and social impacts caused by our loan recipients standards concerning environmental and social risk management established by International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group. These standards and Degree of Group’s impact on society (via each theme) guidelines span many ﬁelds from implementation proHighest cesses for assessing environmental and social risks and/ materiality zone or impacts, pollution prevention, and consideration for regional communities to environmental protections. As of December 2016, 85 banks (including export credit e agencies) from around the world have signed the Equator anc Principles. Signatories require project proponents to comply rt po with the Equator Principles. The signatories can refrain from Im providing ﬁnancing if requirements are not met, particularly in the case of large-scale projects in developing countries. Adoption of the Equator Principles SuMi TRUST Bank is aware that ﬁnancing large-scale projects such as mine development, oil and gas development, power plants, petrochemical plants and infrastructure develDegree of impact (of each theme) on Group’s mediumand opment may indirectly have an adverse effect on the natural long-term corporate value Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Equator Principles Operational Structure at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Operational Structure and Processes for Equator Principles framework and procedures for evaluating Application of Equator Principles social and environmental impacts. The Structured Finance In adopting the Equator Principles, we drew up policies for Department carries out assessments of environmental and protecting the environment and communities based on the social impacts relating to individual projects. Information on Screening Form projects applied to equator principles Categorization Structured Environmental and Social Client Branch Impact Assessment etc. Finance S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Covenants Department Environmental and Social Monitoring Impact Review Credit supervision departments Implementing Environmental and below—reﬂecting its environmental and social risks and/ Social Risk/Impact Reviews or impacts. The Structured Finance Department conducts 097 The Structured Finance Department carries out environmendetailed reviews based on environmental impact assesstal and social risk/impact reviews on projects subject to the ment reports that take into account the risk/impact category, Equator Principles to conﬁrm whether protections for the the status of the country (designated* or non-designated 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t environment and communities the borrower has adopted for country) where the project is sited, and industry. The results the project satisfy the standards established by the Equator of the environmental and social risk/impact reviews are sent Principles. In environmental and social risk/impact reviews to a credit supervision department, where it devises a combased on screening forms, the relevant project is categoprehensive risk assessment based on the review results. rized into one of three categories—A, B, and C as shown *Designated countries are those countries deemed to have built robust environmental and social governance, legal systems, and institutional capacity to protect their people and the natural environment. Specifics can be viewed at the Equator Principles Association’s website. Category Deﬁnition http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/ep3/designated-countries Projects with potential significant adverse enviA ronmental and social risks and/or impacts that are Company Training Programs diverse, irreversible or unprecedented In adopting the Equator Principles in February 2016, we provide multiple training sessions for the employees of sales, Projects with potential limited adverse environmenassessment, screening and other departments and sections tal and social risks and/or impacts that are few in B involved to foster a thorough understanding of Equator number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures Principles concepts as well as implementation processes for environmental and social risk/impact reviews. Through reguProjects with minimal or no adverse environmental lar training programs, we strive to go further to raise awareC and social risks and/or impacts ness regarding environmental and social impacts among our employees and deepen their understanding of Equator Principles concepts and implementation processes for environmental and social risk/impact reviews. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Monitoring Compliance with Equator Principles environmental and social laws, regulations and rules as well As a rule, projects subject to the Equator Principles are as approvals and permits. Based on regular reports submitengaged to submit regular reports in the loan agreement ted by the borrower of the projects, we monitor compliance stipulating compliance with important items concerning with rules relating to the environment and communities. Types of financial instruments and other criteria including financing size for the application of the Equator Principles Type Application criteria including ﬁnancing size Project finance All projects with total project capital costs equivalent to USD 10 million or more FA services*1 Same as the above If all four of the following criteria are met: 1. The majority of the borrowing amount is intended for a single project in which the borrower Project-Related Corporate Loans has effective control (either direct or indirect) of the project; S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . (PRCL)*2 2. The total borrowing amount is equivalent to USD 100 million or more; PRCL: Project-Related Corporate Loans 3. The commitment amounts (at syndication or prior to sell-down) of the individual signatories are equivalent to USD 50 million or more; and 4. The loan term is two years or more. Bridge loans with a loan term of less than two years that are intended to be re-ﬁnanced by a Bridge loans project ﬁnance meeting the above criteria or PRCL *1 Project finance advisory services *2 PRCL includes the buyer’s credit-type export financing but does not include the supplier’s credit-type export financing. Furthermore, it does not include asset financing, M&A financing, hedging transactions, leases, L/C transactions, general funds and general working capital to maintain operations of a company. Transactions subject to the Equator Principles The following data are for transactions subject to the Equator Principles implemented between February 1, 2016 and September 30, 2016. 098 Project Finance Cases FY2016*1 A B C 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 1 6 — Sector A B C Mining — — — Infrastructure — — — Oil & Gas — — — Power 1 6 — Petrochemical — — — Others — — — Region A B C Americas — — — Europe, Middle East, and Africa — 1 — Asia and Pacific 1 5 — Country classification A B C Designated Country 1 5 — Non-Designated Country — 1 — 2 Independent Review* A B C Implemented 1 6 — Not implemented — — — *1 Transactions subject to the Equator Principles implemented from February 1, 2016 to September 30, 2016 *2 An independent review of a proposed project entails an independent consultant with expertise in environmental and social impacts and no direct ties to the borrower preparing a report that evaluates the social and environmental impact assessment conducted by borrowers as well as their environmental and social management plans on behalf of lending bank syndicates. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 CSR Procurement (Procurement that Considers the Environment and Society) The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group strives to give with suppliers who care about the environment and society procurement priority to goods and services that factor in and efforts to spread CSR procurement, the Group seeks consideration for the environment and society based on its to contribute to sustainable social development as a Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Sumitomo Mitsui corporate group trusted by the public. Trust Group (Sustainability Policy). Through its cooperation CSR Procurement Policy Papers, stationery goods, ﬁxtures and equipment used of consumers to procure products and services that have S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . by SuMi TRUST Holdings in its businesses have been probeen designed not to pollute the environment or cause cured through a long supply chain that begins with the human rights issues. SuMi TRUST Group has formulated mining of resources and extends to its processing, manua CSR procurement policy to promote procurement that facturing and sales. Throughout this process, it is a duty gives consideration to the environment and society. 1. Fair Transactions give consideration to industrial safety and health and avoid We select suppliers through a fair and transparent method violations of human rights, such as unjust discrimination, by taking comprehensive account of economic rationality, apforced labor and child labor. propriate quality, delivery punctuality, compliance with social 4. Consideration for the Environment norms, consideration for social challenges and consideration We strive to conduct transactions with and procure products for the environment. and services from suppliers who promote efforts to reduce We do not provide proﬁts to or impose undue disadvantages the environmental burden and contribute to mitigating and on speciﬁc clients without due reason. easing environmental problems, including climate change 099 2. Compliance with Laws, Regulations, etc. and biodiversity problems. We respect laws and social norms in procurement and never 5. Cooperation with Suppliers violate them in any case. We are not involved with antisocial We seek cooperation from and promote cooperative initia2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t forces in any way and reject unjust demands. tives with suppliers in order to give consideration to social 3. Consideration for Social Challenges challenges and the environment across supply chains in our We strive to conduct transactions with and procure products procurement activities. and services from suppliers who respect basic human rights, CSR Procurement in Practice SuMi TRUST Bank is promoting CSR procurement for SuMi as copy paper is concerned, the damage to biodiversity TRUST Group as a whole. One of the products selected as a result of illegal logging of tropical rainforests and its for CSR procurement is environmentally friendly and effects on global warming have become major problems. socially responsible paper, which is used and disposed The Corporate Administration Department and the CSR of in massive volumes in our business operations. As far Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning Department, which CSR Procurement Initiative for Paper Products • Commenced surveys of suppliers into the environmental and social responsibility of their paper products such as copier paper, ofﬁce supplies, etc. • Banned procurement of copier paper with environmental and social responsibility problems, such as illegal logging in tropical rain forests, for all Group companies and changed suppliers and products approved for procurement accordingly • Procure copier paper, in principle, with a 100% recycled content ratio • Reference the viewpoints of Rainforest Action Network and other domestic and overseas NGOs on the environmental and social responsibility of products Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 are in charge of procurement, conducted a survey on the it participates in the Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use manufacturers and distributors to determine how much with like-minded paper-consuming companies and the World their products reﬂect consideration to the environment and Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan). SuMi TRUST Bank society. Based on the results of this survey, SuMi TRUST shares the initiatives being taken by each company, while aimBank prohibited the purchase of paper sourced from illegal ing to spread the sustainable use of paper throughout society logging and changed the suppliers and procured items. as a whole by requesting our suppliers to provide paper that is SuMi TRUST Bank uses FSC-certiﬁed paper for its business friendlier to the environment and society. cards. The paper is sourced from well-managed forests and manufactured and sold in an environmentally friendly and socially responsible manner. Going forward, SuMi TRUST Policies on Paper Bank plans to gradually expand its CSR procurement items Procurement Upheld to printed materials and other items. by the Consortium for Environmentally friendly and socially responsible prodSustainable Paper Use S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . ucts may cost more than other items when items are • Prioritize use of recycled paper and paper certified by replaced for CSR procurement. For this reason, SuMi reliable systems TRUST Bank, with the support of its suppliers, purchases • Do not use paper from sources that destroy forests with goods in bulk with its group companies in order to procure high protection value them at reasonable prices. • Use paper that has been produced through appropriate procedures, from logging of raw wood in compliance with Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use laws in the country of origin SuMi TRUST Bank is aware of the severe consequences of • Do not procure products from business operators logging of tropical forests to supply raw materials for paper connected to signiﬁcant environmental or social problems and the ongoing destruction of the ecosystem. Accordingly, 100 Hosting Symposium on Sustainable Paper Use at SuMi TRUST Bank In July 2016, SuMi TRUST Bank’s head ofﬁce hosted for the Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use (CSPU). a symposium, “Supply Chain Cooperation among At the symposium, CSPU representatives reported 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Companies: Aiming to Spread Sustainable Paper Use,” on their initiatives, and suppliers and industry organizations introduced their initiatives. Based on these presentations, the panel discussion debated what obstacles and issues stand in the way of spreading sustainable paper use further and what can be done to address them. In parallel with CSPU activities, SuMi TRUST Bank is deepening its interactions with suppliers as a CSPU member. Furthermore, we intend to promote further dialogue based on the theme of cooperation between suppliers and users in a bid to realize CSPU’s founding purpose. We plan to disclose the results of these initiatives in our CSR report and on our website. Rules on Human Rights Policy The human rights policy formulated by SuMi TRUST Group standards and policies are violated, necessary measures prescribes that SuMi TRUST Group “gathers information are taken as appropriate.” The measures include requeston cases where the corporate activities of our domestic ing the resolution of a situation where human rights are and overseas suppliers and contractors (supply chain), being violated and suspending transactions and refusing and companies we invest in or lend to, negatively impact to purchase products and services in case the situation is human rights” and that “in cases where relevant laws, not resolved. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 4 Address Environmental Issues S u m i t om o Mi tsu t su i Tru Tr u s t H ol o l d i n g s, s, Inc. • We aim to build a low-carbon society, a natural symbiosis society which fosters biodiversity, and a circular society, and will work to solve problems which obstruct these aims through our core businesses by cooperating with various stakeholders. • We work on energy and resource conservation to reduce the direct environmental burden caused by our own activities. 101 2 0 1 6 C S R Re po port Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Environmental Burden Reduction Measures The Group has strengthened environmental management activities that support reducing the environmental burden generated by its business activities. We promote an efficient approach to environmental management that enables us to improve our operational efficiency and attain our goals for reducing our environmental burden and business expenses. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Environmental Policy 1. Provision of Products and Services 4. Regulatory Compliance We will strive to reduce environmental risks and enhance environWe will comply with the laws, regulations, rules, and agreements mental value for the society as a whole by providing ﬁnancial prodconcerning the preservation of the environment. ucts and services that contribute to the preservation of the global 5. Monitoring environment and the realization of a sustainable society. We will strive to ensure the continuous improvement of our environ2. Environmental Burden Reduction mental activities by setting and periodically reviewing and revising We will strive to preserve the environment and realize a sustainable environmental objectives and targets. society through efforts toward energy conservation, resource conser6. Education & Training vation, and resource recycling based on the recognition of the bur102 We strive to ensure group-wide awareness of compliance with the Enviden imposed on the environment by the consumption of resources ronmental Policy and to provide appropriate environmental education. and the discharge of wastes involved in our business activities. 7. Information Disclosure 3. Pollution Prevention We will strive to promote activities to preserve the environment 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t We will strive to ensure continuous veriﬁcation and improvement of through communications with external organizations by publicly disour environmental activities and make efforts to prevent pollution. closing the Environmental Policy. *The Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change (see page 10) and the Action Guidelines for Preserving Biodiversity (see page 21) are specific guidelines that were drawn up based on this Environmental Policy. Further Promotion and Group-Wide Deployment of Environmental Management 1. Environmental Burden Generated by Business Activities Environmental Management Systems Integrated with a Framework for Operational Efficiencies The Group operates environmental management systems through their linking up with activities aimed at achieving (EMS) for reducing the environmental burden generated gains in operational efﬁciency by reforming operational by its business activities. With the aim since April 2016 ﬂows and reorganizing shifts to reduce overtime hours of linking efﬁcient operation of these systems to our and thus generating such knock-on effects as reducing business activities, the Group has moved to a approach to our environmental impacts. We returned our ISO14001 systems operation that promotes initiatives for reducing certiﬁcation attendant with operational changes we environmental burden based on a framework that adopted but we continue to follow a PDCA cycle that pursues gains in operational efﬁciency. In this context, reﬂects the main elements of ISO14001, and our promotion taking into account time (labor productivity), materials of initiatives in CSR procurement is in keeping with the (resource productivity), and costs (efﬁciency), our aim is main theme of the 2015 revisions to ISO14001, supply chain the simultaneous attainment of the goals of operational management. Environmental management systems (new) efﬁciency, environmental burden reduction, and cost in the main is aimed at the same four primary environmental reduction. We manage systems to promote activities that are items as EMS (former): reducing electricity consumption even closer to operations and are integrative and efﬁcient (CO2 emissions), reducing paper consumption, reducing in lowering paper consumption and reducing electricity waste disposal volume, and promoting green procurement consumption from the use of lighting and air-conditioning (CSR procurement). Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 EMS within a Framework for Examples of Initiatives Aimed at Concurrent Achievement of Greater Operational Efficiencies Operational Efficiency, Lower Environmental Burden, and Lower Costs EMS (old) EMS (new) Effects from greater Effects from lower Effects from lower Initiative example efﬁciency costs eco-burden Operating Promotion of operaISO14001 framework tional efﬁciency Paperless meetings Lighter work load Spend less on purConserve environment (e.g. preparing copchasing paper, reduce on lower paper use, Concurrent achieveies, replacing matewaste disposal costs less waste disposal ment of greater rials) and fewer work Program Eco-burden hours; prevent inforoperational efﬁaims reduction mation leaks ciency, lower ecoburden, lower costs Even out work alloLess overtime means Less overtime trims Help mitigate global cation and manage more self-initiated personnel costs and warming via reduced Four large All buildings, all time to reduce overactivities during off lowers electricity costs electricity use Targets buildings* branches time (encourage peohours (reduced use of lighting ple to leave work at a and air-conditioning) *Buildings apart from the four main buildings are also subject to the Act set time, create leaveon the Rational Use of Energy and local ordinances such as the Tokyo S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . work-early days) Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. Attainment Status of Environmental Targets in ISO14001 FY2015 targets FY2015 results FY2016 targets Item Building Target Base year Targets Down (Up) % Base year Targets attainment Head ofﬁce Down 2% × Fuchu FY2012 Down 15% Down 5% × FY2012 Down 20% Paper consumption Senri Down 14% × Shiba FY2013 Down 10% Down 10% ○ FY2013 Down 15% Head ofﬁce Down 10% ○ Electricity Fuchu Down 2% × FY2012 Down 4.5% FY2012 Down 6.0% consumption Senri Up 2% × Shiba Down 8% ○ Head ofﬁce Down 8% × Fuchu FY2012 Down 15% Down 17% ○ FY2012 Down 20% Waste discharge 103 Senri Down 29% ○ Shiba FY2013 Down 10% Down 1% × FY2013 Down 15% Green purchase Head ofﬁce — 93% 92% × 94.6%* *FY2012 results 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Initiatives to Reduce Energy Use and CO2 Emissions Related to Business Activities The Group is striving to reduce its environmental impacts in disseminate information about implementation. At the Shiba the form of both inputs such as electricity and gas used for Building, additional measures such as pruning light bulbs in business activities and outputs such as CO2 emitted as a result ofﬁce sections and reducing the number of elevators in operof activities. As Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST ation yielded beneﬁts. Bank”) is subject to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, it Annual CO2 emissions at all domestic bases totaled 43,816 calculates the volume of energy consumption and CO2 emist-CO2 as a result of these reductions in energy use, down sions at all of its sites across Japan using a common system. In 13.0% against ﬁscal year 2013’s 50,380 t-CO2, the recent peak. ﬁscal year 2015, total electricity consumption at all sites across SuMi TRUST Bank’s largest buildings in the greater Tokyo metJapan came to 71 million kWh, down 7.3% from 77 million ropolitan area are subject to the mandatory reductions in CO2 kWh in the previous year. City gas consumption declined 10% emissions proscribed in the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on at 2.1 million m3 from the previous ﬁscal year. Environmental Preservation. In the stricter regime of the No. At the Fuchu Building, which consumers the most electric2 plan period, which commenced in ﬁscal year 2015, the manity among Group facilities, the declines in electricity use for datory reduction rate for the four bases subject to the original uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) for computer-related mandatory reductions was raised to 17% from 8%. The head and air-conditioner operating hours both contributed. The ofﬁce building was also added as a base subject to mandaGroup worked to promote strictness toward applications to tory reductions in the No. 2 plan period, and it achieved its extend air-conditioner use into off hours at meetings of the mandatory reductions (adjusted for a single ﬁscal year basis) building’s coordinating and communication group, and thorin ﬁscal year 2015. In the ﬁve years of the previous No. 1 plan oughness in reminding employees to request air-conditioners period from ﬁscal year 2010 to ﬁscal year 2014, our reductions be shut off if they were the last one remaining in their secfar exceeded the mandatory level, so the Group received tion or department and were leaving sooner than planned. emission permits equating to 39,117 t-CO2, and we carried Major beneﬁts were obtained from raising awareness by proforward these emission permits into the No. 2 plan period. viding feedback in the form of aggregate data on actual airWe will make effective use of the emission permits in executconditioner operating hours and early shutoff requests from ing reduction measures vis-à-vis emission increases from the each section and department, and from constant efforts to addition of facilities and relocations. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Energy Usage and CO2 Emissions (Domestic Bases) Energy usage FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total volume of energy usage (heating value) GJ 1,081,210 1,107,217 999,891 1,000,431 949,345 913,496 846,830 Total volume of energy usage (converted to crude oil) kl 27,895 28,567 25,797 25,811 24,493 23,568 21,848 Energy usage intensity kl/m2 0.062 0.063 0.055 0.053 0.055 0.053 0.051 Electrical power thousand kWh 95,656 96,831 87,081 85,901 79,933 76,768 71,206 City gas thousand m3 2,019 2,116 1,875 2,475 2,502 2,398 2,158 CO2 emissions FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Greenhouse gas emissions volume t-CO2 45,900 45,545 40,233 47,867 50,380 48,921 43,816 Greenhouse gas emissions after adjustment t-CO2 42,607 40,562 38,788 46,531 41,994 48,188 43,470 Emissions intensity t-CO2/m2 0.102 0.101 0.086 0.099 0.114 0.111 0.103 Emissions intensity (after adjustment) t-CO2/m2 0.095 0.090 0.083 0.096 0.095 0.110 0.103 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Scope of calculation: SuMi TRUST Bank facilities in Japan subject to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Group companies are tenants in some facilities. Calculation method: The emission factors in “Ministerial Ordinance on Greenhouse Gas Emissions Produced in Conjunction with the Business Activities of Speciﬁed Emitters” were used. Emission factors and emission factors after adjustment for each electricity business were used as the electricity emission factors for calculation of emissions intensity. CO2 Emissions at Bases Subject to the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation No. 1 plan period No. 2 plan period FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Cum. total FY2015 (Four bases) FY2015 (HQ) Standard emissions t-CO2 27,690 28,790 29,891 29,891 29,891 146,153 38,475 13,287 Mandatory reduction ratio % 8 8 8 8 8 — 17 6 Maximum emissions limit t-CO2 25,476 26,488 27,501 27,501 27,501 134,467 31,936 12,490 Mandatory reduction t-CO2 2,214 2,302 2,390 2,390 2,390 11,686 6,539 797 CO2 emissions t-CO2 20,810 18,186 18,860 18,993 18,501 95,350 21,024 10,711 Emissions reduction t-CO2 6,880 10,604 11,031 10,898 11,390 50,803 17,451 2,576 Excess reduction t-CO2 4,666 8,302 8,641 8,508 9,000 39,117 10,912 1,779 Emission permits awarded t-CO2 39,117 104 The emission ﬁgures in the table above show the reduction status at SuMi TRUST Bank’s four bases with regard to the “mandatory reductions in total greenhouse gas emissions” and the “mandatory reductions in total greenhouse gas emissions via the emissions trading system” proscribed in the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation (The four bases are the Fuchu Building, Shiba Building, Chofu Building, and Meguro Building). The head ofﬁce building is a multi-tenant building with mandatory reductions that come into effect from ﬁscal year 2015 but SuMi TRUST Bank’s mandatory reductions have not yet been ﬁnalized and so this data is shown in two columns in a separate table. Our emission reporting has been veriﬁed by a third-party assessment organization. The coefﬁcients used to calculate emissions for the No. 1 plan period and the No. 2 plan period differ, so the performance over time of these periods cannot be compared. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Other Initiatives to Reduce Our Environmental Burden As for copier paper, we reduced our paper use 15.7% year the base integrations or closures but a steady downtrend on year to a total of 726 tons in ﬁscal year 2015, returning has been maintained overall. There are no silver-bullet our consumption to about the level of two years ago. Apart measures that will yield an especially large reduction but from the one-off jump in ﬁscal year 2014, we have made through reforms to work ﬂows and the like, we will work steady progress in reducing paper consumption in the past to reduce inputs such as limiting paper use in upstream ﬁve years. The levels recorded for total waste disposal and workﬂows as much as possible, and we will apply a compaper disposal, both output categories, were lowest of the prehensive operational approach to promoting reductions past ﬁve years. In these output categories, there have been to outputs (disposals). temporary ups and downs due to system integration and Performance concerning Paper Consumption, Water Use, Waste Disposal and Recycling FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Paper consumption t 898 992 808 764 861 726 Recycled paper t 338 377 592 524 508 526 Water use thousand m3 200 151 210 193 178 166 Total waste disposal t 1,882 1,766 1,749 1,972 1,646 1,347 Paper disposal t 1,360 1,360 1,361 1,064 1,057 946 Recycled amount t 1,334 1,309 1,296 1,015 1,018 930 % of total % 98 96 95 95 96 98 Other waste disposal t 471 406 387 909 589 401 Recycled amount t 233 207 96 357 142 124 % of total % 49 51 25 39 24 31 Tabulation scope: Site buildings (excluding some branches in the case of water use) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2. Initiatives to Reduce the Environmental Burden at Group Companies Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Nikko AM) has been contribution program run by employees. With regards to a pioneer, launching Japan’s ﬁrst eco-fund in August 1999, reducing its environmental load, Nikko AM has targets to and has contributed to conserving the environment as an reduce copier paper consumption, conserve electricity, and asset manager that offers products that factor in environreduce CO2 emissions as well as a green procurement promental considerations. As a corporate citizen, Nikko AM gram. In ﬁscal year 2015, its performance deteriorated verproactively promotes environmental initiatives and adminsus the previous ﬁscal year in all target categories due to isters the Nikko AM Employee Charity Program, a social an ofﬁce space expansion but Nikko AM is working to constantly communicate in ways that remind its employees of the need to improve and reduce its environmental impact. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Co., Ltd. Nikko Asset Management’s (SMTPFC) aims to reduce electricity consumption, copier Three Environmental Policies paper consumption, and gasoline consumption. The adopS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . tion of a system where employees can work wherever a desk Increase green investors is empty along with the networking of PCs and projectors As ﬂows of funds through socially responsible funds (SRIs) are enabled SMTPFC to realize a compact ofﬁce, and SMTPFC very signiﬁcant for preservation of the environment, Nikko Asset Management strives to increase green investors. continued to sharply reduce electricity and copier paper use through reductions to overtime hours, a switch to electronic Promote office activities such as energy and settlements that enabled work ﬂow reforms, and paperless resource conservation Nikko Asset Management strives to promote energy and meetings. SMTPFC continues to promote activities aimed resource conservation and recycling of waste and expand green at concurrent attainment of greater operational efﬁciency, procurement in ofﬁces. Nikko Asset Management also strives to environmental burden reduction, and cost reduction. The prevent environmental pollution by complying with laws, reguelimination of personal trash containers at SMTPFC reminds lations and other requirements related to the environment. employees to reduce waste disposal and promotes effective Develop information disclosure use of materials, and SMTPFC is working to ensure compreBased on the recognition that it is extremely important from hensive implementation of this program. the perspective of the preservation of the environment that At Group companies that are tenants of base buildings of information disclosure related to the environment takes hold 105 SuMi TRUST Bank, the parent promotes the same initiatives and develops as a social system, Nikko Asset Management develops information disclosure by actively disclosing inforfor environmental burden reduction that it is advancing. mation concerning its environment-related initiatives, includThe employees tasked with CSR or related responsibilities at each Group company are also in charge of promoting 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t ing the environmental policies. initiatives for environmental burden reduction. Environmental Performance of Nikko Asset Management FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 YoY Change Electricity consumption thousand kWh 1,068 1,025 1,026 1,071 4.4% Total energy consumption GJ 13,928 13,280 13,317 14,022 5.3% CO2 emissions t-CO2 532 508 510 537 5.3% Copy paper procurement amount per employee Piece 660 628 627 672 7.1% Stationery goods green procurement ratio % 57.2 58.6 59.6 50.6 Down 9.0% Facilities covered by the above data: Head office building (Midtown) CO2 emissions: calculated based on the method of specified greenhouse gas emissions in the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation (same emission coefficients as in fiscal year 2014). Environmental Performance of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 YoY Change Copy paper consumption piece 20,988,000 18,016,100 16,788,100 16,589,900 Down 1.2% Gasoline consumption l 186,384 167,991 140,031 127,237 Down 10.1% Electricity consumption kWh 1,923,028 1,691,772 1,218,525 1,007,260 Down 21.0% Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Group CSR Meetings Employees tasked with CSR or related responsibilities at each Group company are also in charge of promoting CSR activities such as environmental conservation and social contribution initiatives. These employees host Group CSR meetings on a regular basis and strive to share information with each other about important items and topics. At the Group CSR meeting held in December 2016, examples of initiatives implemented at Group companies in connection with environmental and social themes such as pursuit of business opportunities and social contribution as identiﬁed in the Group’s materiality process were introduced. Group CSR meeting participants also strive to develop products and S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . services that factor in environmental and social considerations and implement activities that align with the distinctive attributes of our businesses while working to disseminate information on amendments and revisions to rules, regulaA photo of a Group CSR meeting tions and operating policy concerning environmental policies, CSR procurement policies, and human rights policies. 3. Mediumto Long-Term Targets The Group sets mediumto long-term targets for reducing numerical targets set by the Japanese Bankers Association, CO2 and creating a circular society with a view to enhancand we plan to set our own targets based on the Basic ing initiatives of the whole Group. Our targets reference the Energy Plan etc. issued by Japan’s national government. 106 Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets for SuMi TRUST Bank Reduce electricity consumption rate (electricity consumption/total floor area) in fiscal year 2020 by 10.5% CO2 reduction (reduction of compared to ﬁscal year 2009. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t electricity consumption) (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) Creation of circular society Raise purchase rates of recycled paper and environmentally friendly paper to 75% or more in ﬁscal year 2015. (waste disposal) (Sites consisting of the head ofﬁce, Shiba, Fuchu, and Senri) 4. Bolstering Supply-Chain Initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank makes it a priority to purchase The CSR procurement policy SuMi TRUST Group environmentally friendly products, especially products established calls for preferential procurement of that factor in the environment such as energy-saving goods and services that give due consideration to products and products on green procurement lists for the environment and society, and CSR procurement, purchases of ofﬁce supplies and equipment for internal including at Group companies, is moving ahead. While use. In addition to measures against resource depletion, seeking the cooperation of suppliers, we plan to expand SuMi TRUST Bank believes it has an obligation as a user to CSR procurement in steps from paper products and ofﬁce ensure the sustainable use of natural capital and prevent supplies to include printed materials and the like (to read illegal logging of tropical rainforests. our CSR procurement policy, please refer to page 99). Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 5 Respect the Individual S u m i t om o Mi tsu t su i Tru Tr u s t H ol o l d i n g s, s, Inc. • We respect individual rights and diverse values, rejecting unjustifiable acts of discrimination in all our activities. • We create a safe and pleasant workplace environment, respect employees’ diverse ways of working, and strive to achieve work-life balance. • We work to develop the skills of employees and strive to build sound minds and bodies. 107 2 0 1 6 C S R Re po port Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 SuMi TRUST Group’s Human Resources Strategy Human resources are the most valuable resource of financial institutions. The Group endeavors to educate employees in human rights so that individuality is respected and they will not be subject to discrimination based on age, gender, nationality, etc. It also aims to increase corporate value by fostering a pool of human resources that can devise total S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . solutions using all-around capabilities and well-developed expertise that fully draw on their individual uniqueness and creativity to create added value for the organization. Increase Corporate Value Fair Evaluations 108 and Treatment 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Highly Capable Human Capital Bolster Human Maintaining Workplace Resources Environments Foster Foster Appropriate Optimize human next-generation work work resources leaders management styles Prevent Global Diversity & Employee labor affairs perspective inclusion health problems Stimulate Communication Seminars and learning circles Employee awareness surveys “The Trust Bank” discussion Personnel System Management Principles Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management SuMi TRUST Group’s Human Rights Policy Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Enhancing Human Capital to Increase Corporate Value Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management SuMi TRUST Bank provides a workplace in which individuals’ diversity and creativity are fully utilized as valued added to the organization and they can have dreams and pride and feel a sense of satisfaction when working. SuMi TRUST Bank also forms a group of personnel capable of providing total solutions by making full use of their advanced expertise and comprehensive capabilities and helps them to make successful achievements. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Personnel System and Management Principles 1 SuMi TRUST Bank respects individuals’ diversity and promotes voluntary initiatives so as to exercise creativity and create value added in a broad range of fields. 2 SuMi TRUST Bank promotes friendly rivalry among employees to improve themselves as well as their autonomous growth in order to enhance its expertise and comprehensive capabilities as a trust bank. 3 SuMi TRUST Bank assigns the right person to the right job according to job capability in order to make the most of individuals’ potential. 4 SuMi TRUST Bank gives fair and just evaluation and treatment to individuals according to their capability, role and achievement so that they can have motivation and feel a sense of satisfaction at achieving self-fulfillment and contributing to the Company. 109 Bolstering Human Capital 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Foster Human Resources Recruiting Highly Capable People It goes without saying that employing capable personnel Number of New Recruits is the starting point for developing a robust corporate Total foundation. The recruitment section of SuMi TRUST Bank (total of male Male Female website provides clear explanations of the characteristics and female) of our personnel system, the function of trusts and their FY2012 312 130 182 importance, and the business content of each of our divisions. The website is also designed to give visitors an FY2013 334 140 194 idea of what working at a Group company is really like with features such as employee interviews, etc. FY2014 377 152 225 Like in the previous year, we featured CSR as a recruitment workshop theme. FY2015 377 166 211 More than 37,000 recent graduates applied via the website during the recruitment period for new entrants FY2016 412 168 244 to join the Group in April 2017. As the number of job applicants has been increasing year after year, we pick successful applicants through a rigorous selection process. transferred and the nature of their work duties. Personnel Assignment System There is also a system, applied to all courses, that Supporting Our Business Strategy places employees into four work groups based on their Career Course System Enabling Proactive Choice demonstrated capabilities. By adopting this system, we SuMi TRUST Bank has implemented a course-based system encourage personnel management based on ability, that promotes employee career formation. Employees are rather than age or gender. streamed into three courses, the G Course, the R Course, All employees regularly talk with their superiors on the staor the A Course, depending on their likelihood of being tus of career formation to be evaluated and receive feedback. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Residence and Eligible business Course name Primary role workplace relocation operations G Course Nationwide All • Leaders of departmentand branch-level organizations, or Possible (General and Global) relocation type operations • High-level professionals regarding various speciﬁc operations Possible within • Leaders of retail-related departmentand branch-level R Course Operationand Retail organizations, or the speciﬁed (Retail & Region) region-speciﬁc type operation area* • High-level professionals regarding retail operation *Nationwideand regional-types (Tokyo, Kinki and Chukyo areas) A Course All • General managers of departments and branches, or Region-speciﬁc type None (Area) operations • Professions regarding various speciﬁc operations S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Respect for Employees’ Will in Job Assignment their own careers. Under this system, employees applying SuMi TRUST Bank determines job assignments after examfor jobs to be allocated through the internal job posting ining incoming new hires’ aptitude through interviews system can move to the departments where the jobs are with each of them before they formally join the bank. On available if they pass the Human Resources Department’s the other hand, SuMi TRUST Bank attaches importance selection process. to new hires’ will and motivation and provides them with opportunities to try acquiring qualiﬁcations hirers themPersonnel Exchanges among Group Companies selves desire (pension actuary, real estate appraiser, etc.) At SuMi TRUST Bank, from the standpoint of bolstering our and offer them opportunities for challenging work at their human resources across the entire Group and bolstering ﬁrst assignment (asset management and administration, group-wide management, we promote seconding Group market-related operations, etc.). employees not only to afﬁliates but we also accept employees from afﬁliates at the parent bank. We offer training 110 Internal Job Posting System to Group employees seconded to afﬁliates at Sumitomo We have initiated an internal job posting system to encourMitsui Trust Career Partners Co., Ltd. to ensure such perage our employees to independently and voluntarily shape sonnel exchanges go well. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Skills Development While employee training and skill development in the Practical education is provided systematically Group are generally provided on an OJT* basis, group OJT and continuously in the workplace. training is also provided. The objective is to improve Trainees acquire knowledge and skills sysemployees’ operational skills and management abilities. tematically at the SuMiTRUST University as a Many opportunities for self-development are also provided “place of learning.” Various training programs to encourage employees to continue improving their skills. • Training for new employees, rank-based For example, we established SuMiTRUST University in OFFJT training, business process-based training, (various training May 2012. This company-wide program is aimed at realizprograms) language training (English and Chinese) Carefully tailored training is provided acing distinct added value that is “unique to a trust bank” and cording to the levels of experience and skill. “distinctive of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank.” The program Web Campus also develops human resources who can swiftly provide • Learning system using the Internet, includcomprehensive solutions to clients. Under the operation ing e-learning principle of “building a culture of learning and developing Financial assistance to cover the cost of varihuman resources who can help themselves and be indeSelf-development ous qualiﬁcation and certiﬁcation tests, grants support to support obtaining credentials, support to pendent,” we are developing a system to support employobtain books for the disabled ees improving their skills. Internal job posting Opportunities to apply for jobs desired by emSuMi TRUST Bank’s president serves as SuMiTRUST system ployees are provided. University’s president, while SuMi TRUST Bank’s executive Capability development training programs, inin charge of the Human Resources Development and an cluding training for acquiring qualiﬁcations and outside expert serve as the university’s vice presidents. The Various trainee language training programs, are implemented. SuMiTRUST University receives advice regarding its man<Overseas training and language training proprograms grams (English, Chinese and Thai), business agement from Hitotsubashi University graduate school. process trainee program (New York, London, *OJT=On the Job-Training. OJT is a process whereby workplace supervisors and senior Shanghai, Singapore, etc.)> employees teach subordinates the knowledge, skills, and duties required of them via their daily tasks. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Concept Image of SuMiTRUST University Cultivating a climate of learning Clarification and systematization of necessary skills and intention (will) Courses organized by the Human Resources Department Courses organized by business units Seminars and learning circles [Seminars] Voluntarily and continuFostering next-generation leaders Foster personnel with Expert program ously study optional themes Foster next-generation leaders through advanced expertise [Learning circles] Form groups training for strategic thinking from a across branches and departments Deﬁne personnel with industry-leading, global perspective and company-wide advanced expertise for individual busito share and pass on knowledge, perspective knowhow and experiences nesses and foster such personnel General education program SuMiTRUST 50 lessons Rank-based college Business-based college Executives and outside experts Understand expected roles for ranks, make open-style lecture speeches. Acquire knowledge and skills necessary S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . acquire necessary knowledge and skills for individual businesses. An open platTrainees learn about businesses, and develop capabilities suited for the work philosophy and experiences form in which trainees learn according next-level rank to their skill level and in which anybody and use lessons from the speeches for self-development. can participate. • Clarify skills and intentions (will) necessary for desirable personnel • Launch rank-based colleges managed mainly by the Human Resources Department and business-based colleges managed mainly by individual business units and enhance the curriculum by classifying them into “general education programs” in which all trainees participate and “expert programs” in which trainees acquire advanced skills and expert knowledge. • Launch an open-style lecture program in which executives and outside experts talk about businesses, work philosophy and experiences so that employees can use lessons from their talks for self-development. Data concerning Training for Human Resources Development (FY2015) Training implemented by business Training implemented by the Human Resources Department SuMiTRUST Academy* Total units (a college for each business) (rank-based training) 401 days (2,807 hours) 63 days (441 hours) 30 days (212 hours) 3,460 hours 111 *SuMiTRUST Academy is a program to provide various training in order to support employees willing to actively learn in a challenging environment from the perspective of fostering a culture of proactive learning. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Developing Next-Generation Leaders networks among participants and business lines, the training In cooperation with Hitotsubashi University’s Graduate includes a management strategy brieﬁng with an accompanyPrograms, we offer “GL” training for Global Leaders (for ing discussion as well as classes on Japanese business culture deputy general managers, associate general managers, and history, and overviews relating to our various operations. and equivalents) and SL training for Strategic Leaders To further promote our global human resources strategy, (managers, operational chiefs, or equivalents) to develop we plan to increase the number of employees sent from the next-generation executive candidates. Candidates Japan to work overseas to 223 as of September 30, 2016 receive instruction on the values, general liberal arts knowlfrom 115 as of March 31, 2012. We also plan to increase the edge, and MBA elements they need for management, and number of employees with foreign citizenship working in through sessions and courses, they complete the program Japan to 39 as of September 30, 2016 from 22 as of March by presenting a proposal to senior executives. 31, 2012. Moreover, some employees hired at overseas Through visits to historical Mitsui and Sumitomo sites locations will be transferred to other overseas locations. and exchanges with external lecturers and exchange students, the program aims to reafﬁrm SuMi TRUST Bank’s Diversity & Inclusion origins and business spirit, broaden horizons, instill global Promote Diversity via Personnel Utilization awareness, and enable participants to build networks The Group has since its founding managed a range of diverse within and outside the company. businesses and thus pursued a human resources strategy built on initiatives to develop expertise and recruit human Global Response resources from diverse backgrounds, and in October 2016, we Strategy for Recruiting Globally Minded Human Resources established the Diversity & Inclusion Promotion Ofﬁce (D&I We offer training every year to local-country employees workPromotion Ofﬁce) to promote communication among intering at our overseas branches and overseas subsidiaries and nal and external stakeholders amid growing recognition and afﬁliates. Training is focused on deepening employee underpenetration of the concept of diversity promotion in society. standing of our operations and the bank. To strengthen Rather than stopping at diverse working styles for each Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 employee, the D&I Promotion Ofﬁce aims to link work promanager—aimed at helping them build networks and form cess reforms and innovation to the creation of value added career paths on their own. Moreover, from the standpoint for the organization and mutually reinforcing growth of of supporting a balance between work and family life, we human resources. The D&I Promotion Ofﬁce along with have put into place a variety of systems and cultivated a managers with relevant responsibilities from the Human workplace environment that makes it easier for employResources Department and members of business oversight ees to choose ﬂexible ways of working so they can readily departments draw up effective D&I promotion measures adapt to major life events such as childbirth, childcare, and that match the actual situation at each business. nursing care. Since October 2016, from the standpoint of promoting a diversity of work styles, we began to accept Promoting and Supporting Women applications for transfers to another region on the basis of The Group ensures “the right people are placed in the relocation for reasons such as marriage, the transfer of a right positions based on their capabilities in order that spouse, and the need to care for a relative for A-course all of our employees can realize their full potential.” We employees, who are hired as non-transferrable employees. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . make sure that decisions about managerial promotions are based on merit. As of the end of September 2016, SuMi Employment of Disabled Persons TRUST Bank had one female at the level of director, corThe Group hires disabled people who want to work, as well porate auditor, and executive ofﬁcer, 12 female employas to strive to create a more comfortable workplace for disees at the level of general manager, 224 female employees abled people. As of March 31, 2016, our disabled person at the level of section manager and 1,022 female employemployment ratio was 2.04%. ees at the level of assistant manager. To prepare the way for more proactively promoting female employees to the Postretirement Employment of the Elderly position of section manager or above, we offer training for SuMi TRUST Bank has a program that re-employs retirfemale employees at three occupational ranks—those just ees who meet certain criteria until they reach the age of under assistant manager, those appointed at a rank equivasixty-ﬁve if they request employment (the Elder Partner lent to an assistant manager, and those just under a section Program). In recent years, approximately 90% of employees that reached retirement age use this program. We certify employees with advanced expertise as 112 Number of Female Employees in Management Positions Fellows, and have adopted a system where, depending on End of End of End of End of their results, their beneﬁt levels do not decline. Employees March September March September that are eligible to become Fellows are re-employed 2015 2015 2016 2016 through the age of sixty-ﬁve and, in principle, can extend 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Executives 0 0 0 1 their reemployment through the age of seventy. Level of General Manager 10 9 10 12 Level of Section Manager 186 193 192 224 Level of Assistant Manager 1,087 1,062 1,080 1,022 Upholding Positive Workplace Environments Appropriate Work Management Support for International Principles regarding Work Specific Initiatives We support the ILO* Declaration on the Fundamental • Set a ceiling on overtime hours for employees who Principles and Rights at Work as a signatory to the UN habitually work long hours; Global Compact. • Develop good management practices for implement* ILO: International Labor Organization ing efﬁcient operations; • Ensure a ﬂexible approach is in place for employees Improving the Workplace Environment working long hours by encouraging them to take halfThe Group is conducting a broad range of initiatives to day paid leave or come to work later in the day; and improve the workplace environment. Speciﬁcally, we have • Regarding the status of overtime work and the manbeen working on reducing the level of overtime work by caragement of systems to promote employee health, we discuss these issues four times per year at meetings rying out thorough work-efﬁciency and time-management of the Board of Directors and listen to the opinions of measures. In addition, we have attempted to reduce total attendees, including those from external directors and working hours by encouraging employees to take long holexternal corporate auditors, and utilize these in drawidays and by conducting promotions such as a “Go-Homeing up and executing proposals. Early” month and a “Leave-the-Ofﬁce-on-Time” week. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Optimize Work Styles Measures to Promote the Realization of a Healthy Work-Life Balance The Group actively works to establish a workplace envion the website. We plan to preronment where employees can work while feeling at ease pare introductory handbooks for and still maintain a good balance between work and their employees and managers on this personal lives. SuMi TRUST Bank offers childcare leave for system, various procedures, and fathers and up to 10 days per year (in the case of employpoints to be considered. ees with two or more children requiring care) of additional Moreover, for employees with leave to look after sick children, in addition to offering family members who require nurschildbirth and childcare leave until children reach the age ing care, we offer up to 10 days of two. Furthermore, we offer employees who are pregnant (with two or more family members requiring care) of nursing or who live with and raise children of or below the third care days-off, a nursing care leave system that provides leave S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . grade of elementary school a system of shorter working for as long as a one-year period, and a shortened workday hours and the freedom to choose to refrain from working system that applies for up to three years (for each applicable overtime or at night. These measures have allowed us to family member). create an environment where parents can raise their chilIn addition, we hold “Family Visit Days,” when famdren with peace of mind. Moreover, we plan to enable the ily members of employees are invited to the workplace in 368 employees taking childcare leave as of end-March 2016 order to deepen bonds and communication between famto access Web Campus while on leave and to provide them ily members, and to provide an opportunity for families to forms to ﬁle for childcare leave extensions, etc. available consider what it means to work as part of society. Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave Number of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave 400 368 80 303 63 113 300 267 60 51 54 200 40 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 100 20 0 0 End of March End of March End of March End of March End of March End of March 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 SuMi TRUST Bank’s System for Childbirth and Childcare (as of end of March 2016) Until the Until third To under Before After Under 1 year child’s grade of Item Pregnancy childbirth childbirth of age second elementary elementary school age birthday school Staggered working hours ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Secure time for hospital visits, ease the burden of commuting, etc. ○ ○ ○ ○ Prenatal and postnatal leave (8 weeks before and after childbirth/paid) ○ ○ Maternity and childcare leave (ﬁrst week is paid leave) ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Childcare time (1 hour a day or two 30 minute periods a day/paid) ○ Exemption from overtime work ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Exemption from late-night work ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Shortened workday system (shorten working hours by no more than 2 hours a day) ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Nursing care leave ○ ○ ○ Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Prevent Labor Affairs Problems of each country enable our employees to obtain a deeper System to Respond to Complaints understanding of the behavior and sentiments of people in related to Labor Practices, etc. other countries and thus build a foundation for smooth comFrom the perspective of promoting appropriate labor affairs munication and mutual trust. The handbook covers a wide management, SuMi TRUST Bank has established, within the array of bases from summary data on each country such as Human Resources Department, the Personnel Consultation Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index* Desk, at which employees can receive consultation with(country rankings), manners for various scenarios such as out going through the regular reporting line when probwhen doing business or sharing a meal, widely shared senlems related to personnel and labor affairs management, sibilities and basic knowledge as well as taboos, differences such as unfair and unjust labor affairs management practices between Japanese culture, customs, and lifestyles and those and workplace harassment, occur. As a safety net to guard of the relevant country to the human rights of women in each against labor affairs problems, the Personnel Consultation country and customs and rules arising from religion. With Desk strives to appropriately handle consultation cases our Global Business Planning and Coordination Department while promptly cooperating with relevant persons. and Human Resources Departments at the fore, we publiRegarding skilled contract employees, SuMi TRUST cize the handbook to encourage employees to look through S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Bank has started personnel affairs support services, includit as a reference before going overseas. ing rotation interviews with employees, through an afﬁli*Transparency International is an international NGO dedicated to fighting corruption, ated company (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Business Service). especially corruptions among public-sector authorities. The handbook’s country rankSuMi TRUST Bank prevents labor affairs problems by grasping is based on Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index that covers 175 countries and territories. ing the circumstances of individual employees and collecting opinions and views which may be difﬁcult to express in the workplace through these services. Dialogue with Employees SuMi TRUST Bank’s labor union has a total of 8,512 memNumber of Consultations Concerning bers, equivalent to 63% of all of its employees (as of the end of March 2016). Labor Practices, etc. at SuMi TRUST Bank The Company and the union have concluded a labor agreement and are conscientiously complying with it in FY2013 39 order to ensure sound development of the Company and enhance the status of union members. FY2014 46 Under the labor agreement, management consultation 114 meetings, which are attended by the President and other FY2015 42 senior managers as well as union representatives, and branch and department consultation meetings, which are attended by representatives of the labor and management A Handbook for Overseas Employees, sides at individual branches and departments, are periodi2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Domestic Employees Posted Overseas cally held to discuss working conditions for union members Based on discussions (please refer to page 93) by our ESG and how to maintain the working environment. Risk Response Project Team, the “Overseas Application The union conducts organizing activities at individual Handbook” SuMi TRUST Bank has published notes all the workplaces and implements surveys concerning employsocial and cultural custom risks that overseas employees and ees’ satisfaction level and the workplace environment in domestic employees sent overseas ought to be aware of. order to reﬂect employees’ opinions in business manageIn drafting the handbook, we referenced reports by ment through management consultation meetings and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a nonproﬁt that branch and department consultation meetings. originated in the United States that works with companies At other group companies as well, there are initiatives to on sustainability issues, and research materials released by ensure smooth business operation and maintain and improve the Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo. the workplace environment through dialogue between the Understanding the customs and taboos emanating from companies and unions or representatives of employees. the culture, religion, national identify, and unique attributes Employee Health Employee Health Management In an effort to help our employees manage and improve their health, we have appointed medical and hygiene supervisors (hygiene promoters) at each of our business locations to provide detailed health management guidance. Moreover, we provide health examinations every year and assistance to employees and their families to enable them to receive comprehensive physical examinations at facilities through our health insurance association. Moreover, we offer mental health counseling at clinics within the company in addition to conducting stress checks once a year for all employees. Our health insurance association also provides free health advice to employees by telephone. In addition, we have activities such as training for managers to raise their awareness at recognizing the importance of employee health management. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Specific Initiatives • From the standpoint of bolstering employee health management, we thoroughly disseminate to employees their duty to manage their health, and we encourage independent and voluntary health management. • We ensure a ﬂexible approach is in place for employees working long hours by encouraging them to take half-day paid leave or come to work later in the day. • Regarding regular health checkups, re-examinations, and those who have missed checkups but need medical treatment, we commenced a comprehensive program for checkups in coordination with branches and departments. • We put into place conditions for ascertaining the health status of each employee through daily communication within departments, human resource appraisal interviews, and the ﬁling of job condition applications (once a year), in addition to regular health checkups. • We offer inﬂuenza shots at the head ofﬁce building, the Shiba Building, and some branches and issue warnings to protect against the spread of inﬂuenza, norovirus, and other infectious diseases. • We encourage employees to participate in radio calisthenics at the start of the work day. • Regarding the status of overtime work hours and the management of systems to promote employee health, we report on these issues four times per year at meetings of the Board of Directors, and we listen to a broad range of opinions, including those from external directors and S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . external corporate auditors, and utilize these in drawing up and executing proposals. Fair Evaluations and Treatment Personnel Evaluation Systems with transparent system management through clariﬁcation of Individual Employee Participation the process of reﬂecting business performance.” The purpose of our personal evaluation system is as follows. Through appropriate evaluation of personnel and the payment of bonuses reﬂecting performance, the Group 1 To maximize our performance as an organization by has developed an environment that enables capable peraligning the vectors of the company and individual sonnel to fully exercise their capabilities. employees in the same direction; 2 To ensure goal setting and issue identification, daily com115 munication, and face-to-face meetings to review perforEmployees to be evaluated mance, etc. lead to changes in behavior and capacity 9,712 employees in career formation courses development; 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t (as of end of March 2016) 3 To fairly evaluate the various achievements of employBusiness performance indicators used to ees and the diverse capabilities they have demondetermine performance-linked bonuses strated to ensure they are assigned to appropriate Achievement ratio of the consolidated net business proﬁt before jobs and treated justly. credit costs Achievement ratio of the consolidated net income SuMi TRUST Bank’s personnel evaluation system enables Evaluation method used to measure individuals’ performance individual employees to participate in the evaluation proDecided through relative distribution among employees belongcess. At the beginning of each business term, SuMi TRUST ing to the same business unit based on the results of performance Bank’s employees consult with their supervisors and deterevaluation speciﬁed under the personnel evaluation system mine speciﬁc business execution tasks. After the end of the term, supervisors meet face to face with employees and review their attainment level versus Results of the Employee Satisfaction Survey issues identiﬁed and the process they went through to SuMi TRUST Bank conducts an “attitude survey” of all deliver results, provide them with assessments they ﬁnd employees in order to objectively identify employees’ perconvincing, and afford them capability evaluations across ception of the dissemination of measures taken by the the process they followed to achieve results. company, the personnel system and its operation, the workplace environment and engagement. Bonus System Reflecting Business Performance From the perspective of encouraging individual employFY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 ees to fully exercise their capabilities, SuMi TRUST Bank has introduced a system to appropriately reﬂect the busiVitality level 63.0 62.3 62.1 61.5 ness performance of the whole of the Group and individuals’ performances and achievements in the bonus amount Satisfaction level 62.3 61.3 61.4 61.1 with a view to realizing “incentives for building up earnings Vitality level: Indicator of the level of expectations for the future, forward-looking for the whole Group as well as for contributing to business thinking, willingness to contribute to the organization, work motivation Satisfaction level: Indicator of how much satisfaction employees get from the contents of units, branches and departments” and “fair and highly their job duties, the working environment and personal relationships. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives concerning Human Rights 1. Human Rights Management Establishment of Human Rights Policy Under the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of as a standard for acts and judgments concerning human Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy),” the rights, and on November 1, 2016, we amended this policy Group upholds respect for individuals’ human rights and to add text prohibiting discrimination against LGBT and diverse values and rejects unjustiﬁable acts of discriminadisabled people. Based on this policy, the Group respects tion in all its activities. Moreover, in December 2013, to the human rights of all stakeholders with whom we are ensure the execution of the aforementioned basic policy, involved when conducting routine business activities and the Group formulated its human rights policy, which serves providing products and services. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Human Rights Policy At the Group, based on the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy),” we strive to foster a corporate culture and workplace environment that respects the basic human rights of clients and all stakeholders, always act with a strong sense of ethics and social conscience in all aspects of our corporate activities, and achieve sustainable development as a corporate group that is trusted by society. 1. Respect International Standards and build equal relationships that allow a free exchange of opinions. We respect international standards on human rights, such as The We acknowledge that such behavior as sexual harassment and Universal Declaration of Human Rights and corporate codes of conpower harassment impair human dignity; therefore, we do not allow duct based on the United Nations Global Compact. such behavior. 2. Prohibit Discrimination 5. Ensure Fair Recruitment We implement strict and fair screening in the recruitment of employWe reject, in all our corporate activities, discrimination and infringe116 ees and others, solely based on individual capability and suitability. ment of human rights based on race, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, gender identify, origin, social status, beliefs, religion, 6. Implement Human Rights Education Training disability, physical characteristics, and the like. With the aim of resolving all kinds of actual or potential issues relat2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 3. Foster a Corporate Culture that Respects Human Rights ed to human rights and encouraging all executives and employees We regard every kind of human rights issue as one facing us and to develop a deep appreciation of human rights that appropriately encourage our employees to think from the other person’s point of reflects relevant and accurate facts and information, we work on view so as to foster a corporate culture that respects human rights. a wide range of human rights education activities, including one addressing discrimination against the Dowa caste, a specifically 4. Establish a Pleasant Workplace Environment Japanese social minority, through every kind of opportunity, mainly We establish a pleasant workplace environment by encouraging all annual workplace-based human rights education training. executives and employees to treat each other as business partners The above-mentioned policy also applies to our overseas network, and the Group gathers information on cases where the corporate activities of our domestic and overseas suppliers and contractors (supply chain), and companies that we invest in or lend to, negatively impact human rights. In cases where relevant laws, standards, and policies are violated, necessary measures are taken as appropriate. Basic Philosophy The Group’s human rights management is based on the was adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council “Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights,” which in June 2011. Human Rights Management System based on the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights Commitment Establishment of the Human Rights Policy Once a year, the Human Rights Due Diligence Self-check List*2 is distributed to all Implementation of human rights due diligence*1 branches, departments, and afﬁliates both at home and abroad as a tool to check the status of respect for human rights at each unit. The Personnel Consultation Desk (LBGT consultation desk) in the Human Resources DeAccess to redress partment serves as a contact point. *1 Human rights due diligence refers to a series of initiatives to identify actual or potential impact on human rights, resulting from the activities of the Group or related outside parties, to develop measures for the prevention or mitigation of such impacts, and to continuously verify and disclose the effectiveness of such measures. *2 A check list serves to verify the progress in each department concerned with the Human Rights Management System, such as the status of implementation of human rights due diligence, compliance with the Human Rights Policy, and occurrence of human rights violations. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Outline of the Human Rights training, based on discussions at the Human Rights Due Management System Diligence Liaison Committee. Speciﬁcally, the Human Rights The Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee Education Committee, chaired by the executive in charge chaired by the Head Ofﬁce Executive of the CSR Promotion of the Human Resources Department, plays the central role Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning Department, was established in in implementing various training programs and conducting December 2013 as a joint organization by Sumitomo Mitsui education activities concerning human rights issues. Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”). The roles of the All Branches, Departments, and concerned units are as follows. Affiliates at Home and Abroad Each unit veriﬁes the status of compliance with Human Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee Rights Policy, based on the Human Rights Due Diligence • Chaired by the Head Ofﬁce Executive of the CSR Self-check List. Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning Department, S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . this committee engages in investigating the status in Main Items on the Human Rights Due Diligence Self-check List addressing human rights at all Group companies including overseas entities, derives tasks to be addressed, and Consideration for Human Rights Issues in Management discusses measures for improvement. System to Promote Human Rights Awareness (system administration, response when human rights issues occur, etc.) • This committee conducts annual investigations into the Human Rights Education (implementation of human rights awarestatus of addressing human rights by using the Human ness training, etc.) Rights Due Diligence Self-check List. Response to Human Rights Issues by Category Understanding and awareness of the Dowa Issue Departments Forming Human Rights Whether recruitment and hiring are implemented fairly Due Diligence Liaison Committee Companies and society (ending discriminatory expressions, understanding of universal design, etc.) Human rights in the workplace (harassment prevention, considSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings eration for the elderly, consideration for the disabled, understanding for those with contagious diseases such as HIV, etc., Corporate Planning Department, Human Resources Department, understanding for LGBT community) Corporate Administration Department, Risk Management Department, 117 Compliance Department Balancing work and family (consideration for employment diversity in personnel system, consideration for maiden name use, understanding for childbirth & childrearing support and for Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank nursing case leave, etc.) 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Corporate Planning Department, Human Resources Department, Corporate Pursuit of job satisfaction (fairness in personnel evaluation and Administration Department, Risk Management Department, Compliance treatment, equality of opportunity, respect for the individual, Department, Customer Satisfaction Promotion Department, Global safety and crisis management that take into account disabled and pregnant workers, etc.) Business Planning and Coordination Department, Fiduciary Business Planning Department, and Wholesale Business Planning Department Awareness activities about various human rights issues (discrimination on the basis of nationality, discrimination against the elderly, child labor; discrimination against lepers, those identifying as LGBT, and ex-convicts, etc.) Corporate Planning Department Consideration for human rights issues in loans & investments This department formulates objectives and plans for the and supply chain (racial discrimination, child labor, human health, environmental destruction that affects people’s livedevelopment and reinforcement of the framework to address lihoods, weapons and armament manufacture contrary to human rights issues within the Group, based on discussions humanitarian concerns, fairness in hiring activities, consideration for employee human rights, etc.) at the Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee. Activities of those responsible for human rights awareness in Human Resources Department Human Resources Department and Human Rights Education Committee These organizations engage in the planning and implementation of measures including human rights education Personnel Consultation Desk (LBGT Consultation Desk) While responding to various claims and inquiries conOrganizational Structure of cerning human rights, the relevant departments and units the Human Rights Education Committee work together to swiftly take necessary steps (see page 119) in cases where it becomes evident human rights have Chairman Executive in charge of the Human Resources Department been infringed. The total number of consultations received through the Vice Chairman General Manager of the Human Resources Department consultation desk came to 42 in ﬁscal year 2015. All cases General Managers and employees responsible for personhave been resolved, with the exception of one case. Members nel affairs at branches and departments Secretariat Human Resources Department Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Human Rights Management based on PDCA Cycle Through the PDCA cycle, the Group strives to improve the basic human rights of all stakeholders are respected, unjusquality of its human rights management so as to cultivate tiﬁed acts of discrimination are rejected, and individual a workplace environment and corporate culture where the rights and diverse values are respected. Human Rights Management System Based on PDCA Cycle Human Rights Due Diligence (Plan) (Plan) Corporate Planning Department, Human Resources Department CSR Promotion Office (Do) Coordination with NGOs and NPOs Human Rights S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . (Check & Action) Education Committee Human Rights Due (Do) Personnel Consultation Desk Diligence Liaison Committee All branches, departments and (LBGT consultation desk) affiliates both at home and abroad (Access to redress) 2. Education concerning Respect of Human Rights The Human Rights Education Committee dispatches a divisional meetings, in an effort to enhance human rights “Human Rights Awareness Tool” by e-mail to all employees awareness among employees. on a monthly basis, which cites outstanding examples In ﬁscal year 2015, 25 sessions of rank-based training that illustrate respect for human rights. The Committee were held for a total of 16 hours with the participation of a 118 also organizes workplace based human rights education total of 1,434 employees. training for about one hour per year for each employee on average at all branches, departments, and afﬁliates across Training concerning Human Rights in FY2015 the Group. In ﬁscal year 2015, 21,881 employees out of the 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Number of trainees Training hours 23,433 employees at 282 departments who were required Workplace-based human to receive training received a total of 423 hours of training 21,881 423 rights education training (training participation ratio of 93.38%). In the meantime, human rights-related themes are taken Rank-based training 1,434 16 up in collective training such as rank-based training and in 3. Protecting Various Human Rights Initiatives for Diversity & Inclusion Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and at the same time, The Group disseminates information to employees to prowe have worked to completely eliminate prejudiced or dismote diversity & inclusion with conviction and as a way criminatory views against the Dowa caste through various to respond to laws to end discrimination against the distraining programs and education activities, including new abled (Elimination of Disability Discrimination Act) and employee training. to promote a more active role for women at work (Act of With regard to foreign residents issues, we discuss the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in residency management system, which was launched on the Workplace) that came into effect in April 2016. July 9, 2012. Rank-based training was provided on giving consideration to the human rights of foreign residents, Initiatives to Address Dowa and including the handling of personal authentication docuForeign Residents Issues ments and respecting privacy, envisioning such situations The Group regards tackling discrimination against the as identifying oneself at service counters. Dowa caste as a particularly important theme in the promotion of human rights education. The origins of our Group’s Prevention of Sexual Harassment and efforts to be more active in human rights education goes Power Harassment back to the Dowa issue. The Group has continued to draw Sexual harassment and power harassment are actions that on insights from external bodies, such as the Industrial infringe on the human rights and personal dignity of individuals Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 and are prohibited. In particular, we strictly prohibit sexual registered via the Harassment Prevention Committee repreharassment. Such behavior can both damage the character of sentative in each branch and department, or directly by the an individual and infringe upon his or her human rights. We Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources have taken a particularly strict stance on prohibiting sexual Department. When advice is sought by a victim, a person in harassment within the workplace. In terms of power harasscharge conducts an overall investigation that includes interment, we are working toward the elimination of all forms of views with relevant parties on the speciﬁc behavior indicated, this problem. This problem is based on advantageous posithe relationship of the people involved, the response of the victions in the workplace. It is not limited to harassment by supetim, etc. Either stringent corrective measures or punishment— riors of subordinates, but also includes harassment between or both—are implemented against the perpetrators. senior employees and junior employees, colleagues, and even Furthermore, we discuss harassment in workplace-based harassment by subordinates of their superiors. In the event human rights education training, new employee training, and harassment does occur, advice is sought and complaints are training implemented for different management levels. We are committed to ongoing educational activities to ensure that all S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Structure for Advice/Complaints and employees are well acquainted with the principles and issues. Response relating to Harassment Initiatives to Prevent Discrimination Person seeking advice (victim, perpetrator, or third party) against LGBT People One theme of our training on human rights in the workplace (A) (A) in ﬁscal year 2016 is sexual minorities such as LGBT and Harassment Prevention (B) ensuring thoroughness in preventing discrimination against Personnel Department Committee representative (Personnel Consultation Desk) them in hiring or performing their work. Our Personnel Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation Desk) responds to (C) (C) such concerns as an ally (supporter). In October 2016, we published an LGBT consultation response manual to enable Problem solved Problem solved those responsible to respond when an employee comes to (A) Advice is sought and complaints are registered via the Harassment Prevention them to discuss LGBT-related issues in a workplace context. Committee representative in each branch or department, or directly by the In November 2016, we amended our human rights policy to Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources Department. add text prohibiting discrimination against LGBT people. 119 (B) The Harassment Prevention Committee representative will, where necessary, The LGBT Information Liaison Committee, launched consult the Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources Department and request advice or measures to address the case. in November 2015, comprises the Human Resources Department, Corporate Planning Department, Corporate 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t (C) The Harassment Prevention Committee representative or the Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources Department will, once they Administration Department, and departments responsible understand the details of the complaint being registered by the complainant, for operations and retail business planning. It gathers LGBTinterview the party accused of harassment, as well as other related parties as necessary, in order to accurately understand the situation, and attempt to related information concerning employees, clients and supsolve the issue via advice or other measures. pliers and studies internal systems and product development. 4. Factoring Human Rights Issues into Lending and Investment Decisions Basic Policy the manufacture of anti-mine personnel and cluster bombs The Group collects information on whether the business activto stop doing so through our engagement activities, and ities of the companies in our loan and investment portfolios, a result, we received a letter expressing intent to exit this including those based overseas, negatively impact human business in August 2016 from U.S.-based Company C, rights. In cases where relevant laws, standards, and policies which follows a November 2015 letter from Asia-based are violated, necessary measures are taken as appropriate. Company B also expressing exit intent. Investments and Loans related to Cluster Bombs Applying Equator Principles to Project Finance The Group refuses to provide loans to either domestic or Large-scale projects such as mine development and infraoverseas borrowers for the purpose of ﬁnancing producstructure can have substantial impacts on the natural envition of cluster bombs, which are recognized as a weapon ronment and local communities. In February 2016, we raising strong humanitarian concerns. In asset managebecame a signatory to the Equator Principles, international ment as well, regarding active investment, the Group guidelines on project ﬁnance for private-sector ﬁnancial prohibits investment in companies involved in the producinstitutions, and have commenced operational structures tion of clusters bombs and anti-personnel mines in prinnecessary for implementation (see page 96). The Group ciple. Regarding passive investment, the Group conducts has adopted this framework to check whether large-scale engagement activities (please refer to page 46). development projects adequately factor in human rights SuMi TRUST Bank encourages companies involved in and local communities. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 5. Human Rights in Supply Chain Management Based on the CSR procurement policy we have formulated, rights, give consideration to industrial safety and health, we strive to conduct transactions with and procure prodand avoid violations of human rights, such as unjust disucts and services from suppliers who respect basic human crimination, forced labor and child labor (Page 99). Employee Breakdown (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) As of end of March 2015 As of end of March 2016 Number of employees 13,552 (6,329 men)(7,223 women) 13,463 (6,221 men)(7,242 women) S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Hong Kong 44 50 Japan 12,910 12,800 China 143 137 Korea 3 3 Thailand 6 4 Singapore 123 129 120 Indonesia 6 6 UK 147 157 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t USA 170 177 Average age 42.2 (Male: 43.1)(Female: 41.4) 42.5 (Male: 43.4)(Female: 41.8) Average continuous years of 12.8 (Male: 15.8)(Female: 10.2) 13.0 (Male: 16.0)(Female: 10.5) employment Average annual salary 7,205 thousand yen 7,220 thousand yen Number of temporary staff 536 508 Number of part-timers 128 125 Number of disabled persons 259 258 employed (Disabled person employment ratio: 2.06%) (Disabled person employment ratio: 2.04%) Number of employees using 485 448 the Elder Partner Program Number of absentees (annual) 330 (131 men)(199 women) 361 (127 men)(234 women) Number of employee 318 (84 men)(234 women) 335 (127 men)(208 women) turnover (annual) Number of work-related 90 73 accidents (annual) (accidents during work: 51; accidents during commuting 39) (accidents during work: 38; accidents during commuting 35) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 6 Participate in and Contribute to the Community S u m i t om o Mi tsu t su i Tru Tr u s t H ol o l d i n g s, s, Inc. • We aim to revitalize communities and build a rich living environment in cooperation with various partners in all communities where we engage in corporate activities, through our business activities and social contributions such as educational and cultural activities. 121 2 0 1 6 C S R Re po port Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 “With You” Activities Carried Out across Japan As a good corporate citizen that embraces the idea of acting together “With You,” Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) promotes social contribution activities rooted in local communities, known as “With You” activities, primarily through its local branch offices located across Japan. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Support for the Contributions to environment and local communities Ⓡ living creatures and society Enhancement of trust through diligent efforts • Events offering financial • ESD Project (environment education & workplace education) Support for experience • Conservation activities to this generation of • Participate in community protect and rear endangered seniors development events species • Host seminars on disaster • Donation activities 122 Vending machines directing a preparedness, initiatives to percentage of sales to social prevent financial scams contribution programs, Bellmark, • Send seminar speakers to • Campaign to support traffic ring-pulls on cans, used stamps, organizations & local elderly-care safety recyclable books, etc. homes 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t • Initiatives to save energy at • Lobby exhibitions with local roots • Initiatives involving dementia domestic offices • Participate in local beautification • Distribute “The Healthy & clean-up activities • Lobby exhibitions on World Centenarian’s Encyclopedia” Heritage sites, nature, and biodiversity • Lobby exhibitions supporting “Second Life” • Hold lectures and seminars for the elderly We support the activities of Natural Trusts seeP○参照 page 37 ▲ Our Silver College seminar series see page 34 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Promote “With You” Activities S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Initiatives Common to All Branches across Japan To build strong relationships of trust with community memresults,” “reducing environmental burden,” “improving bers, SuMi TRUST Bank engages in social contribution activbrand image,” and “disseminating information” as well ities rooted in local communities, which are known as “With as on the basis of its ingenuity in achieving sales results You” activities. These activities are promoted with a focus on and disseminating relevant information, and posts on its the following three areas: (1) support for this generation of “With You” branch blog. The branches have been steadily 123 seniors, (2) support for the environment and living creatures, achieving their targets since the system began, and use of and (3) contributions to local communities and society. “With You” activities as an effective marketing approach With a view to promoting these activities systematically, has taken hold. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t SuMi TRUST Bank introduced a point system in ﬁscal year Furthermore, the “With You Excellence Award,” “With 2012 as a guideline that establishes standards for these You Special Award,” or “With You ‘Shine Activities’ Award” activities, dividing activities into categories and measuring are awarded to branches that have achieved outstanding their degree of difﬁculty and effectiveness. The point system results from “With You” activities. We are actively sets a baseline point target for each year and assesses developing “With You” activities by sharing these awardeach branch from the standpoint of “achieving business winning initiatives at branches nationwide. Goals of “With You” Activities Branches that achieved Target Points (Branches) (%) 100 97 94 100 88 91 83 84 80 76% 88% 80 Achieving Reducing 83% 86% Business Environmental 66 63% Results Burden 74% 60 51% 60 Evaluation 40 40 points 20 20 Improving Disseminating 0 0 Brand Image Information First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 of 2014 of 2015 of 2015 of 2016 Branches (left) Branches that achieved the target points among all branches (right) Note: The total number of branches in each fiscal year was as follows: 130 branches in the first half and 133 branches in the second half of fiscal year 2013; 128 branches in the first half and 114 branches in the second half of fiscal year 2014; 113 branches in the first half and 102 branches in the second half of fiscal year 2015; 103 branches in the first half of fiscal year 2016. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Main Initiatives at Branches Support for this generation of seniors Support for the environment and living creatures Contributions to local communities and society Ichinomiya Branch The Ichinomiya Branch is proactively engaged in “With You” activities as a ﬁnancial institution with roots in the local community through activities aimed at conserving the Deepbody Using a quiz, students Bitterling, an endangered ﬁsh species with an IA designation from Aichi Prefecture-run from Japan’s Ministry of the Environment (MOE). Kisogawa High School raise awareness about the The Deepbody Bitterling is a rare freshwater ﬁsh that S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Deepbody Bitterling lives in just three areas of Japan. The Ichinomiya Branch has since 2012 promoted and been recognized for a variety of initiatives linked to environmental and ecosystem conservation in the Kiso River basin as a “With You” activity theme. These include participation in local conservation activities and the display of an exhibit on this theme in our lobby. Moreover, the branch is a member of a council looking at ways to promote greater collaboration within a network focused on the Kiso Mikawa basin ecosystem, supports An endangered fish species, Branch-produced “With You” the Deepbody Bitterling is booklets on their activities are Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) projects at designated in Japan as a distributed to clients Aichi Prefecture-run Kisogawa High School, and works with natural monument students from the high school to use a quiz to raise awareness about the bitterling. After obtaining approval from conservation activities as a way to support the environment MOE in August 2016, the branch began a breeding exhibit and living creatures, the branch will continue to work with for Deepbody Bitterlings in a joint project with private-seca wide range of organizations such as national agencies, 124 tor companies, a ﬁrst of its kind. local authorities, and aquariums as it continues to remain In boring down into the theme of endangered species proactively engaged on this theme. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Urawa Branch Sendai Branch and Sendai-Aoba Branch The Urawa Branch participates in a forest maintenance project led by Reifukai, an alumni association for Saitama Working on a rotating, half-year schedule, the branch has Prefecture-run Urawa Daiichi Girls’ High School in an effort to housed six lobby exhibits on a wide variety of themes with support initiatives aimed at energizing the local community. local roots such as ones on breeding an endangered type of This project was born of shared principles motivating the Japanese medaka rice ﬁsh; supporting the local pro basealumni association’s activities and initiatives SuMi TRUST ball team, the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles; calling attenBank carries out as CSR activities. In addition to participating tion to the Tohoku region’s summer matsuri festivals; alerting in the forest maintenance project, branch employees prepeople to the harm of money transfer scams; and displaypared a “With You” booklet for the Urawa Branch to provide ing watercolor paintings by the branch’s lobby attendant. In clients with a broad-based overview of the branch’s operaorganizing these exhibits, the branch actively engages with tions and the ways it contributes to the local community. local groups and organizations and broadens its network by building relationships with outside entities. It will move forward with such activities as a ﬁnancial institution with local community roots. A lobby display on the local pro baseball A forest maintenance project led by Reifukai, an alumni association team, the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles for Saitama Prefecture-run Urawa Daiichi Girls’ High School Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Koganei Branch Five branches in Tokyo’s The Koganei Branch actively posts to its “With You” branch Johnan area* blog, viewing it as the best tool to disseminate information After the silver college seminars (see page 34) concluded, to clients. In ﬁscal 2016, the branch made available in real we followed up by seeking feedback and requests from time a wide variety of content ranging from seminar notiﬁclients who attended them. On this basis, we organized cations, reports following up seminars, and announcements two seminars on a half-year schedule as a combination of on branch employee study meetings to information about S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . either single-branch projects or multi-branch collaborations lobby exhibits and community events. based on area attributes. Our unique approach—combining large seminars for about 200 participants arranged by ﬁve Blog posts at the “With You” branches in close proximity to each other and small-group branch blog for Koganei Branch seminars at a single branch—enabled us to be successful with a large-scale seminar series. Latest Blog Posts! ぜひ検索してご覧ください 小金井支店ブログ 検索 125 Five branches collaborated in organizing seminars *Shibuya Branch, Shibuya-Chuo Branch, Meguro Branch, Sangenjaya Branch, Jiyugaoka Branch, and Futako-Tamagawa Branch 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t “With You” Branch Blog Website URL: http://branchblog.smtb.jp/ SuMi TRUST Bank launched the “With You” branch blog site in 2012. In addition to introducing the “With You” activities of branches around the country, the branch blog has become an important tool for communicating with clients and providing them with timely information about seminars and panel exhibitions. It has also become a tool for deepening the relationship between our branches and local communities. With the number of blog posts by each branch increasing every year, the branch blog has now emerged as an important tool for disseminating information to local communities. Posts on “With You” Branch Blog Website (Trend) (New posts) 1,000 784 818 800 692 695 620 600 469 529 400 200 122 177 0 First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half of 2012 of 2012 of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 of 2014 of 2015 of 2015 of 2016 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Promoting Activities Fostering Employee Participation Activities to Support the Environment and Living Creatures Embracing the idea that “we enjoy lives of abundance roots in keeping with “support for the environment and thanks to the blessings of natural capital,” SuMi TRUST Bank living creatures,” one of the three major themes deﬁning branches promote various activities with local community our “With You” activities. Among these initiatives are employees joining environmental conservation activities and hosting eco-tours as well as employee participation in various events that partner with local and regional authorities and organizations. In June 2016, the Sapporo and Sapporo-Chuo Branch hosted its ﬁfth tour for restoration and conservation of the National Trusts-owned S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . land in Kuromatsunai town. Our employees went to this site to perform conservation work while studying the native Volunteers prune undergrowth for A learning session on Japan’s northernwetland conservation in keeping most native beech forest beech forest, the northern-most in Japan, and the Utasai with expert advice bog, one of the oldest in the Hokkaido region. Protection of Endangered Species Several branches are actively engaged in activities to Forest where conserve species unique to Japan as a part of the “support Tsushima leopard for the environment and living creatures” theme. In August cats live 2016, after obtaining approval from the Ministry of the Environment (MOE), the Ichinomiya Branch commenced an exhibit on the Deepbody Bitterling, an endangered ﬁsh species, in a joint project with private-sector companies, a The Tsushima leopard cat is an endan126 ﬁrst of its kind. The exhibit arose from our participation in gered wildcat living exclusively on Tsushima Island, Nagasaki Prefecture, environmental and ecosystem conservation activities for with its population now down to just the Kiso River basin that we have promoted in concert with around 100. In addition to programs for Kuromatsunai town and Amami local organizations. In addition, other branches are breeding 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Oshima, SuMi TRUST Bank administers a donation program for funding endangered ﬁsh species such as the Japanese Rosy Bitterling purchases of National Trusts landand Japanese Medaka rice ﬁsh indigenous to their region in holdings through social contribution donation trusts. ﬁsh tanks in their lobbies, widening the circle of participation in the SuMi TRUST Fish Project to a nationwide basis. Forest where Amami-no-kurousagi (Amami Rabbit) lives SuMi TRUST Bank has joined the Trust Campaign run by the Association of National Trusts in Japan to protect the Breeding Deepbody Bitterlings rare Amami Rabbit, whose sole habiin a fish tank tats are the islands of Amani Oshima y Bitterlin and Toku-no-shima. The Kagoshima Ros g Branch donated a sum commensurate SuMi TRUST Fish Project to that needed to purchase 8,066 m2 of forest lands for the rabbit. Branches Type of ﬁsh Ichinomiya Deepbody Bitterling Sendai and Medaka rice ﬁsh (a line that lives Sendai-Aoba near the Natorigawa River mouth) daka befo The Grey-faced Buzzard Forest Me re l Trust, the Miyako Island Aobadai Oikemedaka rice ﬁsh eggs ing ay Yao Rosy Bitterling Medaka rice ﬁsh (a line that lives Odawara in the Sakawagawa River) *Medaka rice fish: Genetic divergence has been confirmed in each line of Japanese Medaka rice fish for each of their habitats, and each region is advancing conservation activities for unique lines according to a system for fostering endangered flora and fauna. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Activities Supporting National Trusts A movement that traces its origins to nineteenth-century 50 regions across Japan. England, the National Trusts acquires sites with natural SuMi TRUST Bank recognizes that increasing National value and historical buildings via donations from citizens. Trusts landholdings is an investment in the foundation supIts conservation activities protect private-sector sanctuarporting our livelihoods, and through land acquisitions, ies as “trust land,” highlighting this approach as an effecenvironmental education, and our products using the trust tive way to steadfastly protect natural capital. The Natural system, we support its activities, which are rooted in the Trusts as a movement in Japan goes back to 1960, and the characteristics of each site. scope of its activities has broadened to now include over S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Nakaikemi Utasai Bog, Wetlands Shiretoko Hokkaido’s Oldest Kushiro Wetlands Shinorofukui Wetlands The roughly 25-hectare Nakaikemi SuMi TRUST Bank joined a campaign wetlands, surrounded by mountains led by the Association of National on three sides, are rich with nature Trusts in Japan to protect the Utasai and designated under the Ramsar Bog, the oldest high-elevation marshConvention. SuMi TRUST Bank has land in Hokkaido with a history that produced a video on the wetlands goes back 24,000 years. The donation highlighting the 3,000 species of flora of the Sapporo Branch and Sapporoand fauna that call it home despite its Chuo Branch for the Utasai Bog is comproximity to a city center. The video mensurate to the sum needed to puris to be used for environmental educhase 1,500 m2 of the site. cation in Fukui Prefecture. 127 The Japanese Crested Ibis Forest Trust, Noto Northernmost The Mount Fuji The Water Trust Beech Forest 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Plateau Trust The Fresh Stream Forest Trust, The Northern The Nagara River Goshawk Forest Green Field in Setagaya The Beech Forest in Kuromatsunai town Springs in Kakitagawa is the most northern habitat of native beech. Moreover, the forest is valuable Okegaya Pond for awakening us to the environmental changes caused by global warming. The Zephyrus (Thechlini Butterfly) Employees of the Sapporo Branch and The Fairy Pitta Forest Trust in Mikusa-yama Sapporo-Chuo Branch planted beech (Yairocho) Forest saplings on the National Trusts site and are active in regular activities to conserve the beech trees. The Field of Aso Tenjinzaki Water Head in Koajiro Forest Oyatsu Forest Mimasaka Forest Trust Tenjinzaki is a promontory in Tanabe The water head for the Yoshii River Koajiro Forest, located near the tip Oyatsu Forest spreads out behind City, Wakayama Prefecture. Despite watershed is in a 62 hectare forest of the Miura Peninsula, has been prethe Tsurugaoka Hachimangu shrine. its location near a city center, the where nature has been preserved in served by the activities of the National To protect this forest, the Kamaksite is home to a rich natural environa pristine state. SuMi TRUST Bank Trust chapter in Kanagawa Prefecura Environment Conservation Sociment. SuMi TRUST Bank produced created educational materials on the ture. SuMi TRUST Bank, in collaboraety was established in 1964 as the education videos from interviews water head forest and used them tion with Green TV Japan, interviewed first National Trusts chapter in Japan. conducted by students of a nearby to teach environmental education experts for an education video it proSuMi TRUST Bank sponsored an envielementary school, and used these classes to elementary school studuced for use in environmental eduronmental education class in Kamakfor environmental education classes. dents, prompting the students to cation classes at elementary schools. ura City to mark the 50th anniversary think about the importance of water. of the Society’s founding. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Projects SuMi TRUST Bank has worked on activities to raise awareness Japan for use in local classrooms. Appealing to children’s about National Trusts in collaboration with Green TV Japan, sense of sight and sound, these educational videos an Internet broadcaster specializing in the environment, on communicate a large amount of information in a short Education for Sustainable Development* (ESD) projects span, directing the interests of children toward learning. It aimed at children, from whom tomorrow’s leaders will come. is hoped the videos will increase their interest in the real Since 2012, this project has developed videos on nature world around them and relevant issues. conservation activities and National Trusts sites across *ESD is a United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) program. Nakaikemi Wetlands Near to Tsuruga City Kiso River’s Deepwater Bitterlings S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . In January 2016, sixth graders at Fukui City-run Yashironishi In July 2016, high school students in the business club at Elementary School were taught about Fukui Prefecture’s Aichi Prefecture-run Kisogawa High School learned about Nakaikemi wetlands in an ESD-sponsored class. the Deepbody Bitterling, a local endangered ﬁsh species, In the class, SuMi TRUST Bank employees taught the in an ESD-sponsored class. students about the site’s natural riches and scarcity value and Mr. Ikeya, a curator at Gifu World Fresh Water Aquarium, that it had been developed for rice cultivation until farming taught the class using ESD videos and other tools, introin the region waned and it was abandoned. A plan to install ducing the students to the rich natural splendor of the gasoline storage tanks at the site was advanced but people Kiso river basin, its history, how their lives are linked to the living in the area rose up to conserve the Nakaikemi wetlands river, and how changes stemming from human activities are after hearing about the plan and organized National Trusts affecting the river’s ecosystem. activities, the teachers told the students. Mr. Ikeya explained how river control infrastructure In recognition that “precious natural sites should and the growth of non-native species have imperiled the not be heedlessly destroyed” and in a bid to “protect Bitterling population, along with illegal ﬁshing. He told valuable wetlands,” people donated money to purchase them the population was thought to be on the brink of 128 and conserve the site. The Nakaikemi wetlands were extinction but after a few specimens were found, local citiregistered as a swamp under the Ramsar Convention, an zens came together to protect and boost the population intergovernmental treaty, in July 2012, and the site’s value through breeding. After hearing the presentation, students was recognized internationally. Learning that preservation were asked to share their opinions and most seemed to 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t of these wetlands was a factor in determining the Hokuriku agree it will be important in the years to come to create a Shinkansen route, the students, raising their voices in favorable environment not just for the Deepwater Bitterling surprised awe, said they didn’t realize they lived so close to but for all varieties of wildlife. such an incredible place of international importance. The wetlands are habiThe Deepbody Bitterling tat to some 3,000 speis designated in Japan as cies of flora and fauna, a natural monument including endangered species Kisogawa High School Many students voiced their students learn in a class opinions after watching the about the endangered ESD video Deepbody Bitterling Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Timeline of ESD Projects on Natural Trust Themes Aiming to provide environmental education that brings nature into the classroom and energizes National Trust activities 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Local elementary school stuAn expert is interviewed A National Trust staffer proA video is produced on the A video is produced on dents interview a local expert about conservation activvides viewers with an introOyatsu forest in Kamakura, the Rosy Bitterling fish in at Tenjinzaki, Wakayama ities in Koajiro Forest in duction to the water head in Kanagawa Prefecture, for Yao City, Osaka Prefecture, Prefecture. Kanagawa Prefecture. forested land in Mimasaka, use in classrooms. for use in classrooms. Okayama Prefecture. 2016 2016 SuMi TRUST Bank received an award from the Biodiversity Action Award 2015 (sponsored by the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity 2011-2020). Students at Yashironishi Elementary School Students at Aichi Prefecture’s Kisogawa High 129 learn about Fukui Prefecture’s Nakaikemi School learn about the Deepbody Bitterling wetlands in an ESD class. fish in an ESD class. via information sent to the entire 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t community Promoting Public Awareness about National Trusts Children talk with their at home family about what the y learned on the The day’s video web footage is immediately uploaded Educational materials created from A SuMi TRUST Bank employee serves as a video footage facilitator for a class using educational videos at branch acti Videos on class lobbies shown vities, etc. are Green TV Green TV Japan has more than 1,200 videos available for viewing free of charge, including a large selection of overseas videos as well as videos originated and produced in Japan. SuMi TRUST Bank has supported Green TV Japan as a media sponsor since it was established in 2007. We have collaborated on various projects including producing environment-related video content and promoting ESD. Website URL: http://www.japangreen.tv/ Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Supporting Education for Children through ISAK Financial Support for Preparing Students to Be Tomorrow’s Leaders S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . The International School of Asia, Karuizawa (ISAK), opened in August 2014 as the ﬁrst international boarding school in Japan that is intended to foster next-generation leaders. Accepting students from overseas, mainly from the AsiaISAK school building Paciﬁc region, ISAK high school provides support so that located in Karuizaw a students from a variety of backgrounds can have equal access to education. Counting ﬁrst-, second-, and third-year before ISAK high school opened, providing ﬁnancial students, there are now a total of 155 students at the school, assistance to cover travel, stay and school expenses. We which keeps class sizes small ranging from 10 students to have so far sponsored four students—one from Vietnam, as many as 20. All lessons are in English. The high school’s two from India, one from Mexico—in need of economic curriculum is designed so students can graduate with both support for the summer school program. In 2016, SuMi a Japanese high school diploma and the International TRUST Bank sponsored Eduardo Bautista. He aims to Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma, which universities around the secure a job in the future so he can become a contribuworld recognize in their admission process or regard as tor to people in need and society in the hope that the 130 conferring eligibility to sit their entry examinations. many social problems plaguing Mexico, such as organ As an enthusiastic proponent of ISAK’s guiding prindonation cases, can be addressed. SuMi TRUST Bank ciples, SuMi TRUST Bank has acted as a “foster parent” intends to provide ongoing support to foreign students for a foreign student in the summer school since 2013 so bright students like Eduardo can learn there. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Scenes from summer school A Thank You Letter from Eduardo Bautista Dear D Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, H Happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, worn o or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of liliving every minute with love, grace and gratitude. You just gave me the opportunity to have the ju h happiest moments in my entire life e a and meet amazing people. A Mexican felt sombrero A thank you letter from from Eduardo Bautista Eduardo Bautista Thank you for your support!! presented to us as a gift Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Summer-school students we have sponsored through 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Vietnam India India Mexico Hong Lien Thulasi Thanuja Eduardo Ngyuen Priya Ramesh Ramesh Bautista Support for India’s Children Thulasi Priya Ramesh is the ﬁrst student from Shanti Bhavan, a school in India that helps the nation’s most socially disadA comment from Thulasi Priya Ramesh vantaged children to learn and succeed, SuMi TRUST Bank It’s been a while. I am now a supported for the ISAK summer school program in 2014. She student at ISAK high school. 131 is now a student at ISAK high school. We plan to continue to I was able to come to ISAK provide ongoing support for Shanti Bhavan students so they high school thanks to SuMi can learn at ISAK and go TRUST Bank’s sponsorship of 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t on to support the nextme for the summer program. generation of children I’ve been able to learn a wide born into disadvantaged variety of things due to the circumstances in India. support I’ve received from SuMi TRUST Bank. I have also made many friends and feel very happy that I am again studying at ISAK. Shanti Bhavan’s Mission as an Education Program for India’s Most Underprivileged Shanti Bhavan is an education program intended to developing their careers and that cultivates values that foster children who are the most socially and economienable them to think, work and thrive globally. If children cally disadvantaged under the Hindu-based system of from these poor communities receive a quality educahereditary social stratiﬁcation. Dr. Abraham George, tion and become leaders later in life, their example who is the program’s founder, believes educating chilcould inspire other outcastes, including their families, dren is the most important way to improve the situaand create positive spillover effects for future generation of people who are most disadvantaged by birth and tions. If many other schools adopted education probreak the negative cycle that extends to the next gengrams like Shanti Bhavan, this could open a pathway to eration. Learning in a boarding school environment in a abolishing the Hindu-based hereditary system of social rural natural setting, the children enrolled in the Shanti stratiﬁcation and discrimination that goes back more Bhavan program receive a top-notch education aimed than 2,000 years. at preparing them for the type of work they seek and Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 CSR Activities at Group Companies S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . This is a guide to various CSR activities at SuMi TRUST Group companies. 132 Nikko Asset Management 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Nikko Asset Management works to promote various CSR as a signatory to Principles for Responsible Investment activities as it places a high value on contributing to global (PRI) and Principles for Financial Action towards a environment and development of a sustainable society. Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for In addition to proactively managing the Nikko AM the 21st Century). In particular, Nikko AM has been a Employee Charity Program, a social contribution promember of the drafting committee for the Principles gram by employees, Nikko AM strives to advance CSR for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society since activities through its core asset management business its inception. Oxfam Trailwalker Tohoku 2016 The Oxfam Trailwalker is a charity event in which teams of four people strive to reach the goal line. Two teams from Nikko AM participated in the July 2016 event, a 100km course that opened in Fukushima Prefecture and required teams to ﬁnish in less than 48 hours. The donations collected through the event went to support reconstruction in the Tohoku region, which was heavily damaged by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that A heavy rain fell on the event’s struck eastern Japan. first day Oxfam Trailwalker Tohoku 2016 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 FIT for Charity Run Wheelchair Rugby Financial Industry in Tokyo (FIT) for Charity Run is a charity Nikko AM has been an ofﬁcial sponsor of the Japan event created by ﬁnancial service companies in Tokyo that Wheelchair Rugby Federation (JWRF) since April 2015. draws participants from across the industry with the aim of Two Nikko AM employees are designated practice supporting non-proﬁt organizations in Japan. squad players that help members of Japan’s national Nikko AM has served as a member of the executive wheelchair rugby team prepare for games. We supcommittee for this event since 2006 and also contributes port disabled athletes and wheelchair rugby to raise as a corporate sponsor. In the December 2016 charity run, a their public proﬁle, while actively hiring people who total of 36 people with Nikko AM ties participated, centercome from a wide variety of backgrounds and helping S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . ing on employees and their family members and volunteers. to advance acceptance of diversity. A Nikko AM employee Nikko AM participants in FIT for Scenes from wheelchair rugby games won the gold medal for Charity Run 2016 the five-kilometer run 133 Regular Gatherings for Child “Dream” Canayell 2016 Wheelchair Maintenance Speech Contest 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Nikko AM participates in monthly gatherings for child Nikko AM has since 2013 supported the Canayell speech wheelchair maintenance held by a non-proﬁt organization contest for adolescents who grew up in institutional homes which sends wheelchairs for children abroad. The NPO is to speak publicly about their dreams or plans to pursue a beneﬁciary of the Nikko AM Employee Charity Program. further education. The Canayell program offers a scholThe NPO collects and repairs second-hand wheelchairs arship grant that does not need to be repaid to entrants for children and sends them free of charge to children who give a speech at the contest. Forming a team with overseas that need a wheelchair. At the October 2016 three adult volunteers, would-be contestants spend 120 gathering, wheelchairs for disabled Cambodian children days preparing for the speech contest. In 2016, a total of were tuned up and packed for shipment. 24 young people in one of three cities—Tokyo, Yokohama or Fukuoka—overcame hardships and nerves to deliver their speeches about moving toward their dreams. Volunteers cleaning and packing wheelchairs into boxes for shipping A audience An d off over 4 400 00 00 fil fills l an auditorium d to llisten to the h CCanayelllll speech contestants Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty On October 16, 2016, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty hosted a Grandchildren’s Day event on the grounds of Nagoya City’s Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens as it had the year before. At the event, invitees received a specially prepared calendar, and those who brought their grandchildren could line up to have a commemorative photo taken with Trust-san, our tiger-costumed mascot. This year we handed out 5,000 calendars and snapped People wait in a long line to have commemorative commemorative photos of 183 pairs of grandparents with their pictures taken with Trust-san S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . grandkids. Getting a picture with Trust-san was so popular that a A photo stand long line formed from the many people waiting their turn. 2016 was the third year this event has been held, and the number of participants grows each year. Beyond the many people on the zoo grounds who shouted out to Trust-san, in our everyday sales activities, there are people who discuss the event with us, and we believe Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty is clearly establishing a name for itself among clients through this initiative. We intend to continue with such events in the future, and will work to cultivate employee awareness, raise our public proﬁle in the Chubu region, and improve our brand image. Commemorative photos with Trustsan and Zoobo-kun, the mascot of Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens 134 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t SBI Sumishin Net Bank This quiz event is billed as “economics Koshien” and aims to make learning about ﬁnance and economics enjoyable for high school students across Japan. Like in 2015, SBI Sumishin Net Bank sponsored the Online Economics Competition, a preliminary for the all-Japan contest that is separate from prefecture-based preliminaries. In the online preliminary, high school students respond to quiz questions via the Internet with teams competing based on their knowledge about a wide range of money-related topics such as current events and money-related trivia. The winning team qualiﬁes for the national ﬁnals. In 2016, the tenth time the online competition has been held, 16 teams competed for the opportunity to advance, and Kindai University’s Hiroshima High School in Higashihiroshima came out the winner. We will continue to sponsor this contest as a way to encourage even more high school students to participate and learn “Dekamakura Bakufu” team, about economics and ﬁnance. Winner Kindai University’s Hiroshima High School in Higashihiroshima Using its internet platform, SBI Sumishin “Churagenai” team, Net Bank will continue sending its mesRunner-up Nishiyamato Gakuen High sage as an internet bank for the purpose of School sharing happiness with people in the years “Hayakawa Children” team, Third place Kaisei Senior High School ahead and creating a society of the future. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club In December 2015, the SuMi TRUST Bank Group took food culture support project. Under the slogan a step forward, bringing Diners Club International “Championing Japanese food culture,” Diners Club in Japan under its umbrella. Diners Club (issuer is has been implementing initiatives since June 2016 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club) embarked on one projbased on two key ideas. ect to mark this major changeover, the Japanese Recommitting to the basics S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . One Diners Club’s origins are in food and the idea of a club. We are resolved to return to these founding ideas. Diners Club is the only credit card in Japan that offers the charm of a club that brings together people with the same values. We strive to make Diners Club, with its strong brand connection to ﬁne cuisine, into a champion of Japanese culinary culture. Build trust, while keeping an eye on the road ahead Two What is important at present is to awaken people to the future of Japanese cuisine. Along with Diners Club members, we call attention to and support the new generation laboring to preserve Japan’s food culture, food innovators blazing new paths, and strivers facing constraints who continue to put forth their best efforts. Through these shared commitments, we hope all Diners Club members will feel a sense of pride and belonging. Japan’s SAKE COMPETITON Adds Diners Club’s Young Brewer Award in 2016 The SAKE COMPETITON 2016 awards ceremony, run by drinkers to experience delightful sake without relying on 135 a Japanese sake appraisal society, was held on July 29, labels, we established the “Diners Club Young Brewers 2016. In connection with our support of and cooperation Encouragement Award” as a way to recognize the genwith the society’s mission of illuminating a new standard eration of talented young brewers who are the future of 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t for Japanese sake that increases opportunities for sake Japanese sake and its traditions. The Diners Club award went to Hiroyuki Matsuzaki, the youngest sake artisan at Matsuzaki Shuzoten in Fukushima Prefecture, which is a sake brewery that has won the highest awards by the sake appraisal society. Signature, our magazine for Diners Club’s members, subsequently ran a feature on Matsuzaki Shuzoten’s Hirotogawa sake, and we continue to provide it support by offering Hirotogawa sake SAKE COMPETITON 2016 awards ceremony to our members on special terms. Diners Club’s deep ties to ﬁne cuisine go back to its Award recipient Hiroyuki Matsuzaki founding, and it will continue to support Japan’s unique from Matsuzaki Shuzoten food culture in ways that stays true to its origins. Other Initiatives Sponsor of Documentary Launch of Card Payments for “Tsukiji Wonderland” Investment-type Crowd Funding Diners Club International is a In a ﬁrst of its kind for Japan, we sponsor on a documentary on offer Diners Club members the the bustling Tsukiji ﬁsh market, option of using card payments a giant market unlike any other to respond to crowd-funding in the world that is scheduled opportunities from producto close soon. We help the proers who are working to professionals that sustain Japan’s mote and preserve food culture seafood culture give outsiders across Japan. a glimpse into their world. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 CSR Activities at Our Overseas Branches New York Branch Relocating to a new building in November 2015, the New York Branch is working with the manager of the building where it moved on a variety of activities to contribute to the local community to accompany the activities it has so far carried out of its own initiative. The branch has made it easy for employees to commute by bicycle in an initiative linked to building-sponsored green actions and a cityS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . sponsored green program aimed at saving energy and conserving the environment. A parking rack for up to eight bicycles installed in a corner of the new ofﬁce is one way it encourages bicycle commuting. Amid growing interest in health and ﬁtness, we expect the number of employees who commute by bicycle to increase over time. In addition to the aforementioned initiative, the branch receives high marks for its recycling program and for installing energy-efﬁcient LED lighting with controls that automatically switch off lighting when it is not needed. The branch has been certiﬁed a “Green Ofﬁce” because the building where it relocated has LEED certiﬁcation (a plaque is on display at the reception desk). 136 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Singapore Branch Singapore’s POSB PAssion Run for Kids was held on September 4, 2016. Jointly organized by POSB*1 and PAssion*2, the annual event gathers donations from corporate sponsors and participants that are later allocated, along with a portion of runner entry fees, to the POSB PAssion Kids Fund, which supports education and outreach events and programs for local youth. The Singapore Branch donates to the POSB PAssion Run for Kids every year, and many of its employees and their families join in, thereby showing our support for POSB PAssion Kids Fund activities. In 2016, a total of 117 people with ties to the Singapore Branch joined the event, running the course at their own pace. People of all ages came together on the day of the event, walking or running the course at a pace that suited them. The event was a valuable opportunity for people in the community to interact. *1 Formerly known as Post Office Savings Bank, POSB is the oldest bank in Singapore; DBS Bank, with which SuMi TRUST Bank has a major alliance, owns POSB. *2 PAssion is an acronym for The People’s Association, an organization sponsoring local community centers formed by the Singapore Government. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Other “With You” Activities “Inheritance from Me” Series Since June 2013, SuMi TRUST Bank has invited clients to We plan to continue to accept “Inheritance from Me” entries share stories with an “Inheritance from Me” theme. These from people, encouraging them to send us stories infused with stories, up to 400-characters in length, are on the precious the precious memories of the most important people in their people, things, and matters the writer wants to pass on as lives and of unforgettable episodes from their past. an “Inheritance from Me” legacy for future generations. The stories selected for the Grand Prize and the Second Grand Prize are published as a collection in a booklet that is available at our branch lobbies across Japan. Three works were selected for the Grand Prize in the ﬁrst, second and third annual competitions. The Grand Prize S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . winner in Year One was a story entitled “A life-sustaining ten-yen coin.” It describes how a ten-yen coin helped form a bond of trust between a teacher and a student. The story appealed to many, even inspiring Aki Yashiro, a well-known Japanese enka (folksong) singer, to turn the story into a song. The Grand Prize winner in Year Three is a story entitled “Celebratory meals on New Year’s Day.” The author shares a heart-warming tale that evokes scenes of a family formNo. 3 Grand ing tight bonds as they come together every year on New Prize Year’s Day. Sakaguchi Kazuhiko (kyoto) “With You” Quarterly Reports on our Local Branch-produced “With You” Booklets Contribution Activities Branches publish their own booklets that highlight their SuMi TRUST Bank engages in social contribution activities distinctive traits and draw attention to their contributions 137 that are rooted in local communities, primarily through its and activities to accompany the information they local business ofﬁces across Japan, in order to build a strong disseminate via posts on their “With You” branch blogs bond of trust with community members. One way we do this and the “With You” quarterly reports. The free booklets are 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t is the publication of a quarterly report aimed at clients called handed out to branch customers. “SuMi TRUST With You.” The report also serves as a vehicle for The branch-produced “With You” booklets highlight communicating information on issues of particular interest to local attractions, contain employee self-introductions, seniors and seasonal topics. The quarterly reports in ﬁscal year and publicize “With You” activities and environmental 2016 featured a special series on nursing care and elderly-care conservation activities the branch views as important. homes. Introducing readers to speciﬁcs on themes around nursing care, something that strikes close to home for many people in Japan’s aging society, the quarterly reports also offer guidance on what preparations need to be made beforehand, how to select an elderly-care home, what services to look for, and how much money needs to be set aside. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Reconstruction Support for Disaster-Afflicted Regions A Project to Encourage Tourists to Visit Oita Prefecture, Japan’s Hot Springs Capital Earthquakes originating in Oita and Kumamoto prefectures in April 2016 prompted over 700,000 reservation cancellations at travel lodgings across the Kyushu region. While reservations are now back at a level on par with 2015 thanks in part to the “Kyushu Fukkou-Wari” S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . program offering lodging discounts, the program’s second stage ended in 2016, so an important point to watch is whether tourism in the region returns to pre-quake levels in 2017 and beyond. In Oita Prefecture, many people are working to lure back tourists and restore demand to pre-quake levels based on the catchphrase “Oita Prefecture—Japan’s Onsen (Hot Springs) Capital, Home to Many Attractions.” A project was launched from June 2016 to encourage tourists to come and spend money in the prefecture and support its recovery. The Oita Branch is helping to advance initiatives linked to the project in cooperation with local clients such as hotels, traditional Japanese ryokan inns, and sake breweries. The branch drew up plans inviting Group employees to visit the prefecture’s tourist attractions such as hot springs and purchase local sake made using river-bed water. The plans attracted many inquiries. 138 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t lings take ro sa p ot d Planting Saplings for Pl a nt e “Great Forest Wall” Project Our involvement in this sapling-planting project started with an invitation from Dr. Akira Miyawaki, Professor Emeritus at Yokohama National University, the lecturer at a 2012 seminar on “The power of forests to renew—reconstruction and regeneration in harmony with nature” that was convened to Our group compriised O commemorate the new address of the Sendai Branch and Sendaid336 6 concerned members Aoba Branch. The project’s plan is for volunteers to plant broadleaf tree saplings into an embankment that is to extend 300 kilometers along the Sanriku coast to create a forested tidal barrier embankment based on the inherent capacity of the land to foster ﬂora. When completed, the tidal barrier is expected to offset some of the power of tidal waves, with the trees that have been planted into the mounds helping to prevent slope failure. As of June 2016, a total of 40,000 volunteers have planted 300,000 saplings since the project’s inception. Volunteers planting saplings The Sendai and Sendai-Aoba branches have continued as project volunteers since its launch in 2013, and Group employees and members of their family pitched in at the tree-planting event again this year. To contribute to land regeneration and protect against future natural disasters, both branches will remain active. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Connecting to the Future Arranging Project Finance for a Megasolar Farm Developed by Town Residents Support for Reconstruction via Solar Power S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . In September 2016, SuMi TRUST Bank signed a conAbout 50 people, starting with Mayor Koichi Miyamoto tract to provide loans for a megasolar farm developed and other ofﬁcials, landowners, and parties involved in by residents of Tomioka town in Fukushima Prefecture. the project, gathered on November 29, 2016 for the Located about seven kilometers from the No. 1 solar farm’s groundbreaking ceremony and prayed for Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant that had been run by safe project execution. Tokyo Electric Power Co. (TEPCO), Tomioka town resiOf the about ¥10 billion in construction costs for dents were forced to evacuate due to the accident and the megasolar farm, about 90% came from project all its residents still live offsite. Polluted with radioactive ﬁnance loans arranged by SuMi TRUST Bank. The contaminants, farming land around the town remains farm aims to commence operations in March 2018. off limits but farming sites in restricted residence areas Town reconstruction is expected to advance using can still be put to effective use. With the aim of rebuildmoney from reselling electric power over twenty ing and achieving self-sufﬁciency, residents embarked years. The solar farm is expected to generate about on developing the Tomioka reconstruction solar farm 30,000kW per year, equivalent to the consumption on such a site. A little more than 30 town residents of 10,000 ordinary households. The scale of investobtained leases for about 35 hectares of farming land ment and electricity output of this megasolar farm and erected a megasolar farm with 110,000 photovolis expected to be among the largest for a project 139 taic (PV) panels. Income received from reselling the funded in part with local citizen investment, and it electric power is to be used to support reconstruction is likely to attract much attention as a pioneering projects and projects aimed at restoring quality of life. renewable energy project in Fukushima Prefecture. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t A briefing on the megasolar farm for Iwaki city residents A scene from the groundbreaking ceremony CSR of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group: Accession to International Guidelines for Corporate Conduct and Related Activities The Group has signed on to various international guidelines and principles involving corporate conduct. It has actively involved itself in the formulation of international standards in cooperation with international organizations, foreign companies and NGOs, while it implements such activities. Signatory to the United Nations Natural Capital Finance Alliance Environment Programme (formerly The Natural Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Capital Declaration) The UNEP FI is an international network that encourages financial The Group became a signatory to the Natural Capital Declaration S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . institutions to take action to preserve the environment and to make (NCD) proposed by the United Nations Environment Programme development sustainable. The Group has proactively supported Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in June 2012. The Group is the only UNEP FI ever since it became the first Japanese trust bank to sign on financial institution in Japan to have signed the declaration. NCD to it in October 2003. signatories are working toward implementing NCD commitments through Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA) projects overseen by a steering committee of signatories and supporters and supported by a secretariat. Participation in the UNEP FI Signatory to the Principles for Property Working Group (UNEP FI PWG) Responsible Investment (PRI) The UNEP FI PWG is one of the working groups formed by signatory SuMi TRUST Bank and Nikko Asset Management became signatories institutions of the UNEP FI to promote property finance that faciliof the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which were jointly tates sustainable development, namely Responsible Property established in May 2006 by the UN Global Compact and the UNEP 140 Investment (RPI). In addition to joining the working group in June FI. These principles require institutional investors such as pension 2007, the Group became a member of the media team that profunds and asset managers to give consideration to ESG factors when motes RPI and conducts activities as one of its leading members. making investment decisions. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Signatory to Leadership Declaration Signatory to under the Business and Biodiversity the Equator Principles Initiative “Biodiversity in Good Company” At the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the The Equator Principles are international guidelines for private-sector Convention on Biological Diversity held in May 2008 in Bonn, financial institutions for confirming that impacts on the environment Germany, the Group, together with 33 other companies from around and regional communities are fully taken into consideration when the world, signed a leadership declaration under the Business and implementing project finance loans. SuMi TRUST Bank became a sigBiodiversity Initiative “Biodiversity in Good Company,” which was led natory to the Equator Principles in February 2016. by the German government. Since that time, we have been playing a role as a leading company in this field and making proactive efforts to address this issue. Signatory to the United Nations Formulation and Practice of “Principles for Global Compact (UN Global Compact) Financial Action toward a Sustainable Society” (Principles for Financial Action in the 21st Century) The UN Global Compact, proposed by former UN Secretary-General The Group has been actively involved in the formulation of the Kofi Annan, is a code of conduct regarding human rights, labor, the Principles for Financial Action in the 21st Century. These principles environment, and anti-corruption. Signatory companies are called on aim at concrete action toward creating a sustainable society jointly to take measures to implement the compact. In July 2005, the Group taken by Japan’s major financial institutions. As the current chair of signed the compact, becoming the first Japanese bank to do so, and the steering committee, we are pressing ahead with efforts to coordeclared its resolve to act as a good corporate citizen by complying dinate the signatories and to ensure the widespread adoption of with and promoting the code of conduct. The Group also became a these principles. member of the Global Compact Network Japan Network (GCN-JN), in which signatory companies of the UN Global Compact participate. GRI Content Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Established in 1997 as a joint project between the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economics (CERES), a nonprofit organization in the United States, and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the GRI aims to improve the contents of sustainability reports to the level of financial reports while attaining the basic conditions of comparability, credibility, accuracy, appropriateness of timing, and verifiability of the information included in the sustainability reports. The initial guidelines were issued in 2000, revised in fiscal year 2002, and further revised in fiscal year 2006 based on the 2002 revisions, and fourth generation guidelines were released in fiscal year 2013. ●=Required General Standard Disclosures for both ‘in accordance’ criteria options * Global Compact S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or 4.1 ● equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organizaP4,5 tion’s strategy for addressing sustainability. 4.2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. P1,90-96 Organizational Profile 4.3 ● Report the name of the organization. P150 4.4 ● Report the primary brands, products, and services. P9-60 4.5 ● Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. P151 141 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either 4.6 ● the organization has signiﬁcant operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability topics P150 covered in the report. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 4.7 ● Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P150 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers 4.8 ● and beneﬁciaries). P150-151 Report the scale of the organization, including: • Total number of employees • Total number of operations 4.9 ● • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) P120,149-150 • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 4.10 ● e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are leP109,120 gally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any signiﬁcant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). 4.11 ● Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. P114 4.12 ● Describe the organization’s supply chain. P7 Report any signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions 4.13 ● • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operP99-100,106 ations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Commitments to External Initiatives 4.14 ● Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. P80-81,102-106 Rule 7 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to P21,43-44,84, 4.15 ● which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 100,140 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body 4.16 ● • Participates in projects or committees P140 • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents. ● S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . 4.17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 4.18 ● b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Deﬁning Report Content. 4.19 ● List all the material Aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one 4.20 ● of the following two approaches and report either: – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or P4-7 – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material • Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or ele4.21 ● ments for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the 142 Aspect is material for the entities identiﬁed • Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for 4.22 ● such restatements. 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t 4.23 ● Report signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement 4.24 ● Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.25 ● Report the basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement P4-7, 4.26 ● by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertak62-72 en speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.27 ● organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile 4.28 ● Reporting period (such as ﬁscal or calendar year) for information provided. 4.29 ● Date of most recent previous report (if any). Cover2,P151 4.30 ● Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 4.31 ● Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). 4.32 ● c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. P141-148 GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and 4.33 ● basis of any external assurance provided. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Governance Governance Structure and Composition Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 4.34 ● Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the 4.35 highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with respon4.36 sibility for economic, environmental, and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on econom4.37 ic, environmental, and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: • Executive or non-executive • Independence 143 • Tenure on the governance body • Number of each individual’s other signiﬁcant positions and commitments, and the nature of the com4.38 mitments • Gender 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t • Membership of under-represented social groups P74-84 • Competences relating to economic, environmental, and social impacts • Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ofﬁcer (and, if so, his or 4.39 her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: • Whether and how diversity is considered 4.40 • Whether and how independence is considered • Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered • Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conﬂicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: • Cross-board membership 4.41 • Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders • Existence of controlling shareholder • Related party disclosures Highest Governance Body’s Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and 4.42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals reP74-84 lated to economic, environmental, and social impacts. Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Highest Governance Body’s Competencies and Performance Evaluation Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowl4.43 edge of economic, environmental, and social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is indeP74-84 pendent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. 4.44 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Risk Management a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in 4.45 the implementation of due diligence processes. b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identiﬁcaS u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . tion and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. P90-96 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk man4.46 agement processes for economic, environmental, and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, and social im4.47 pacts, risks, and opportunities. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 4.48 P6-7,74-84 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental, and Social Performance 4.49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest goverP74-84 4.50 nance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Remuneration and Incentives 144 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: • Fixed pay and variable pay: (Performance-based pay, Equity-based pay, Bonuses, Deferred or vested shares) 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t • Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments 4.51 • Termination payments • Clawbacks • Retirement beneﬁts, including the difference between beneﬁt schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental, and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are inP78-79 4.52 volved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including 4.53 the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each 4.54 country of signiﬁcant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest4.55 paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior such as codes of con4.56 ● duct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and 4.57 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. P1,85-89 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful be4.58 havior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Generic Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: 4-DMA P6-7 • The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • The results of the evaluation of the management approach • Any related adjustments to the management approach Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed P149 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations EC5 of operation EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant locations of operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported P10-25 EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Aspect: Procurement Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation 145 Category: Environmental Aspect: Materials 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Aspect: Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization P102-106 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization P102-106 EN5 Energy intensity P102-106 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption P102-106 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services P102-106 Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiEN11 N.A. versity value outside protected areas Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas EN12 N.A. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored P126-128 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affectEN14 ed by operations, by level of extinction risk Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Aspect: Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) P102-106 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) P102-106 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) P102-106 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity P102-106 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions P102-106 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EN21 NOX, SOX, and other signiﬁcant air emissions Aspect: Effluents and Waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P102-106 EN24 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN25 P102-106 Basel Convention (2) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly EN26 affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services P9-25 Rule 8,9 EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance EN29 with environmental laws and regulations 146 Aspect: Transport Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organiEN30 P102-106 Rule 8 zation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Aspect: Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region P106,120 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, LA2 by signiﬁcant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender P113 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are speciﬁed in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management—worker health and safety comLA5 mittees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number LA6 P120 of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: Training and Education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category P111,118 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of emLA10 P109-115 ployees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender LA11 P109-115 and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to P74-84, LA12 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 109-112,120 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations LA13 of operation Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria LA15 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievLA16 P114 ance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Aspect: Investment Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts that include human 147 HR1 rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR2 P116-118 Rule 1,2 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Aspect: Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR4 bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR5 N.A. taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory laHR6 N.A. bor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that HR7 P118 are relevant to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken N.A. Aspect: Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact HR9 P116-119 assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievHR12 P117 ance mechanisms Sub-category: Society Aspect: Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 development programs SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Aspect: Anti-corruption SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures P85-89 Rule 10 S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken P88 Aspect: Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneﬁciary Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SO8 with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken P96-100,106 148 Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievSO11 P46 ance mechanisms 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Sub-category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are asPR1 N.A. sessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the PR2 N.A. health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and serPR3 vice information and labeling, and percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories subject to N.A. such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR4 N.A. and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products N.A. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketPR7 ing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the proviPR9 sion and use of products and services Financial Highlights In the consolidated financial results for FY2015, net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥1.5 billion year on year to ¥318.3 billion, due to an increase in net fees and commissions and related profit mainly at asset management and real estate brokerage subsidiaries, despite a decrease in net interest income and related profit at SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated). Net income attributable to owners of the parent increased by ¥7.2 billion year on year to ¥166.9 billion, mainly due to the non-recurrence of banking IT system integration costs for SuMi TRUST Bank recorded as extraordinary loss in the previous fiscal year. Regarding our year-end dividend on common shares, we paid ¥6.50 per common share in line with our policy targeting approximately 30% as a consolidated dividend payout ratio. The annual dividend for the fiscal year increased by ¥1 per share from the previous fiscal year to ¥13.00 per common share, including the ¥6.50 interim S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . dividend per share we paid last December. • Overview of the Financial Results in FY2015 <Consolidated> Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (Consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2015 (A) FY2014 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Proﬁt before Credit Costs 318.3 316.7 1.5 0.5% Ordinary Proﬁt 278.0 292.4 (14.4) (4.9%) Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent 166.9 159.6 7.2 4.5% Total Credit Costs (25.9) 19.3 (45.2) (234.3%) Return on Equity 7.00% 7.17% (0.17%) — 149 Net Income per Common Shares (Yen) 43.33 40.38 2.95 7.3% Net Assets per Common Shares (Yen) 618.12 618.63 (0.51) (0.1%) 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t <Non-consolidated> Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Non-consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2015 (A) FY2014 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Proﬁt before Credit Costs 249.1 245.7 3.4 1.4% Net Interest Income and Related Proﬁt 223.9 233.4 (9.4) (4.0%) Net Fees and Commissions and Related Proﬁt 199.9 201.0 (1.1) (0.6%) Net Trading Proﬁt 15.5 32.4 (16.8) (52.1%) Net Other Operating Proﬁt 45.9 27.2 18.6 68.2% General and Administrative Expenses (236.1) (248.5) 12.3 5.0% Net Non-recurring Proﬁt, etc. (23.9) (15.6) (8.2) (52.6%) Ordinary Proﬁt 218.8 230.0 (11.1) (4.8%) Extraordinary Proﬁt (3.6) (60.0) 56.3 93.9% Net Income 143.1 130.5 12.6 9.7% Total Credit Costs (14.1) 18.1 (32.2) (178.3%) (Note) Amounts less than ¥100 million are rounded down. <Dividends> FY2015 (A) FY2014 (B) Change (A)–(B) Dividend per Share on Common Share (Yen) 13.00 12.00 1.00 Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Network of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Domestic Branch Networks and Overseas Network The Group has built a balanced network focused on the Tokyo metropolitan, Kansai, and Chubu areas. The Group also has an overseas network that can provide global financial services in the loan business, asset management and administration business, as well as the Other Areas consulting business, among others. Total 21 branches S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . Tokyo Kansai Area Metropolitan Area Total 30 branches Total 61 branches Chubu Area Total 21 branches 150 Domestic Branch Network Consulting Plaza and (as of December 31, 2016) Branches Consulting Offices Tokyo Metropolitan Area 61 ( 45.9%) 8 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Kansai Area 30 ( 22.5%) 3 Chubu Area 21 ( 15.8%) 0 Other Areas 21 ( 15.8%) 0 Total 133 (100.0%) 11 Balanced domestic branch network, focused on the Tokyo metropolitan, Kansai, and Chubu areas Overseas Network (as of December 31, 2016) [U.S.] [Asia] • New York Branch • Singapore Branch • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Limited • Shanghai Branch (Banking, Trust Businesses) • Hong Kong Branch [Europe] • Beijing Representative Ofﬁce • London Branch • Beijing Representative Ofﬁce • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International Limited (Securities Business) (Securities Business) • Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. (Trust Business) (Trust, Banking, Securities Businesses) • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Hong Kong) Limited • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Limited (Securities Business) (Trust Business) • Jakarta Representative Ofﬁce • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (UK) Limited • Seoul Representative Ofﬁce (Trust Business) • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited (Banking Business) An overseas network that can provide global financial services Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Corporate Information (as of September 30, 2016) Registered Trade Name: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Headquarters Location: 1-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Date of Establishment: February 1, 2002 (Change of trade name: April 1, 2011) Main Business: With trust banking at its core, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., will focus on the management of business operations, as the holding company of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, and sets the following (1) (6) as its key functions: (1) Formulating group management strategy S u m i t om o Mi t su i Tr u s t H o l d i n g s , I n c . (2) Monitoring administration of business activities (3) Allocation of management resources (4) Supervising risk management (5) Supervising compliance management (6) Managing internal auditing Capital: 261,608,725,000 Yen Stock Exchange Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya Stock Exchanges Tokyo (Primary), Nagoya (Primary) Securities Code: 8309 151 2 0 1 6 C S R Re p o r t Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Rating Information (as of December 31, 2016) Long-term Short-term JCR AA— Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings R&I A — S&P A A-1 Moody’s A1 P-1 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Fitch AF1 JCR AA— R&I A+ a-1 Issued: March 2017 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Corporate Planning Department, CSR Promotion Office 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Telephone: +81 (3) 6256-6251 Facsimile: +81 (3) 3286-8741 URL: http://smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report —— Questionnaire Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Corporate Planning Department, CSR Promotion Office Facsimile: 81-3-3286-8741 What was your impression of the CSR Report as a whole? Q1 ● Content □ Substantial □ Acceptable □ Inadequate ● Readability □ Easy to read □ Normal □ Difficult to read How do you evaluate our CSR efforts described in this report? Q2 □ Very Good □ Good □ Satisfactory □ Weak □ Insufficient What items in the report interested you, or left an impression? (Feel free to check multiple items) Q3 ● □ Editorial Policy/Creating Shared Value through CSR Activities □ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Basic Policy on Social Responsibility □ Management Commitment □ Materiality Management for Creating Shared Value at SuMi TRUST Group ● Sustainability Policy 1 □ Addressing Climate Change Using Our Financial Capabilities □ Natural Capital-related Initiatives Using Our Financial Capabilities □ Addressing the Issues of a Super-Aging Society by Using Our Financial Functions □ Various Solutions Using Trust Functions □ ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Asset Management Businesses □ ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Real Estate Businesses ● Sustainability Policy 2 □ Initiatives regarding Fiduciary Duty □ Client Protection Management □ Efforts to Enhance Customer Satisfaction □ Delivery of Reliable Financial Products and Services ● Sustainability Policy 3 □ Corporate Governance □ Compliance and Conducting Business Activities Fairly □ Risk Management □ Environmental and Social Considerations in Project Finance □ CSR Procurement (Procurement that Gives Consideration to the Environment and Society) ● Sustainability Policy 4 □ Environmental Burden Reduction Measures ● Sustainability Policy 5 □ SuMi TRUST Group’s Human Resources Strategy □ Enhancing Human Capital to increase Corporate Value □ Initiatives regarding Human Rights ● Sustainability Policy 6 □ Initiatives to Promote “With You” Activities □ Promoting Activities Fostering Employee Participation □ Our Activities Supporting National Trusts □ Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Projects □ Supporting Education for Children through ISAK □ CSR Activities at Group Companies □ Reconstruction Support for Regions Afflicted by Earthquakes Please write your impressions and comments including your positive opinions about the report and the areas that should be improved. Q4 In what capacity did you read this report? Q5 □ Retail Customer □ Corporate Customer □ Shareholder/Investor □ Corporate CSR Manager □ Researcher/Educator □ NPO/NGO Member □ Media Representative □ Government Employee □ Student □ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Employee □ Other (please specify: ) Name: Occupation/Company (Title): Address: Tel: This questionnaire is solely for the improvement and enhancement of the content of our CSR Report. We will not use your personal information obtained through this questionnaire for any other purposes. We appropriately manage personal information.
