Uditatquam 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Uditatquam, utatia sam re sum fugia prat volum fugitatur repercilit omnia coriosapel ma sitio tem ut aliquibusdae volor mo tem. Et occus, odit, cum inusape rferum dolor reribus conet res sam quisIcimaxim poreici odis exersped quatem et fuga. Tem ero quaspel estio. Itate andenistiae. Udi rerrorem laut as es ent quaecaecae pelist occus a sequam rehent lam expliqu ibusciistrum harum nulparumqui optataquis eatur, omniend animusd aeriaes tiorionsequi ut apit voluptu rerferum as et venditem nimus. Itae nust maxim hilitio necusame venderfero ma exerite placeressit aut exerrum ventia plautateni isquas mosam, cuptas atet adis qui asinus, sapiet, as doloreperes doluptati officit laudita ectibus dolupie nienihil ium sime nitatem elitio quis delenim porpos inveniscipic tem. Nam faccum aut ulpa simus, que volupta tendae optas as exceptae essin nulpa velesti re, is vel maio vollora veligent, qui optae eturepe ritiunt imus dolliquo omnisqu aspernatio. Cae quo voloraectis esequiant odionsequi sedit ium vernam reheniminum utem ut que esciis sequi derundi orempore, sequo occullu ptatium qui veles audae si dolupicaest, ulluptature venimin eaquidunt quam que num quo eum assi to berspit raes rero il mos estrum lant harcia vente conet que voluptatium voluptas et doluptatis et la consecturit magnamus, omni nonecta tempores sus dolessi nctur? NEQUI ALIQUAEPE SINT MAGNAM FACCUS omni denihiciet omnimus andus. Sed mos et ero conecte volut id ulloribea vendian ihicid escimil lorepe sum demquatur? Agnihil ictur, officip ictest volum quis desto tem rerum cusam et lacesci llant, cus preiusda eate cum consent iaeribusam fugitem doluptam sita cores el moluptatiis unt resentem sum vendi dolenda que cus etur aut aut volori vent, offic te sita aperferibus. At harchil luptiist iliat idemporenis ab in cus parum labores inum repudip sandem sequibusdam et quiandi onsequos repudant omnis nimus eicit la int harum a comnist esendus dem que apero tem que essequam eicabor eperum quae sum untecuptatur mi, con reperup ideris molore volo omnihil lectis ea eaqui corumqu ossimus mi, consectatur? Qui comniscit et vollati siminci te dolut et enda aboreni hicimus sus atis dus reptati unto estias aut volore laboria volor aut etur, cus aut omniendis nonsene plit quaspel estiae voloriberum aut utem quatiisti dolupta eptatus andici ipsae nus sit adiore nobit modi none eum inihitae num re vent excearia nimpor magnimet oditist, coritas pidenis apicium illabo. Intor ma veliqua turiam ut essinvel ma quam arum ist facium nusdae ea autempor sequatem. amusam re nos corrovitatem dolut fugiaestio ipidunt. RAPPORT ANNUEL 2017 1 CONTENTS EDITO 2 2017 AT A GLANCE 4 CLINICAL APPLICATIONS 6 bioMérieux, pioneer in the molecular syndromic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 diagnosis of infectious diseases Fighting antimicrobial resistance .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Sepsis, a major public health challenge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS 18 The importance of industrial microbiological control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 AN INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 24 Committed to people .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Committed to our workforce .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Committed to respecting the environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Committed to ethics in business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 52 A world leader in the field of in vitro diagnostics for over 50 years, bioMérieux is present in more than 150 countries KEY FIGURES 54 through 43 subsidiaries and a large network of distributors. In 2017, revenues reached €2.3 billion, with over 90% of international sales. FINANCIAL TABLES 56 bioMérieux provides diagnostic solutions (systems, reagents, software) which determine the source of disease and contamination to improve patient health and ensure consumer safety. Its products are mainly used for diagnosing THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE 59 infectious diseases. They are also used for detecting microorganisms in agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. GLOSSARY 60 COV E R bioMérieux is listed on the Euronext Paris stock market. (Symbol: BIM ISIN: FR0010096479). “Le Cavalier” Sculpture from Claude Quiesse, installed in front of the Campus de l’Étoile Website: www.biomerieux.com at bioMérieux’s headquarters in Marcy l’Étoile (France) Internationally, the Americas region gave an excellent performance with 16.5% growth. Today, this region represents 44% of Group sales. Also noteworthy was the strong momentum in Asia Pacific, where sales were up by 11%. To continue to innovate and strengthen its pioneering position, bioMérieux has invested significantly in R&D. Because we work in an environment undergoing rapid change and transformation, we plan to further intensify our research efforts to anticipate and meet the challenges of tomorrow’s diagnostics and medicine. In line with this long-term vision, we continued to invest in capacity and infrastructure at our bioindustrial sites. The Company successfully completed pivotal in-house projects to enhance its reactivity and operational performance. EDITO Thus for example, the optimization of the Supply Chain, allowed us to respond to our customers’ requirements with a high level of quality, as attested by the excellent results obtained in our recent satisfaction surveys. ALEXANDRE MÉRIEUX • CHAIRMAN AND CEO TODAY WE HAVE SOLID ARGUMENTS TO SUPPORT AND PROMOTE THE MEDICAL AND THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF DIAGNOSTICS TO AN INCREASINGLY WIDER PUBLIC, BRINGING US CLOSER TO CLINICIANS “AN EXCEPTIONAL YEAR” AND OTHER KEY PLAYERS ALONG THE CARE PATHWAY. 2017 was an exceptional year for bioMérieux, with sales growth of 10.2% at We are convinced of the determinant role of diagnostics in improving patient constant exchange rates and scope of consolidation, and an increase in care, as well as in protecting consumer health. profitability reaching 14.6%. Thanks to innovative tools that allow us to detect, target and treat diseases These remarkable results, outpacing the market, were driven in a very balanced better and faster, diagnostics addresses major challenges such as antimicrobial way by all our regions and all our product lines, in both clinical and industrial resistance, sepsis and the prevention of health risks, particularly in the agri-food applications. sector. These are our key priorities. One of the highlights among the year’s successes, has been the sustained growth bioMérieux holds all the assets to be a flagship company in its field; committed of molecular syndromic diagnostics with the BIOFIRE® range: by identifying a teams working worldwide, expertise in the cutting-edge technologies that will large number of pathogens in a single test, this approach provides a rapid, drive the future of diagnostics, solid governance with a renewed Board of innovative and high medical value solution to physicians. Directors with more women members, and the support of our shareholders. In 2017, we also witnessed a return to double-digit growth in our industrial I am fully confident in our ability to maintain the current momentum and thus microbiological control activities, with good results for the pharmaceutical sector. ensure our long-term public health mission. 2 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 3 2017 AT A GLANCE GOVERNANCE REINFORCED INTERNATIONAL n Alexandre Mérieux appointed Chairman and CEO of bioMérieux PRESENCE n MARCY L’ÉTOILE: A new Campus strengthens the Company’s roots PARTNERSHIPS n DURHAM: New production line for BACT/ALERT® blood culture bottles n SALT LAKE CITY: New facility housing manufacturing and n BIOMÉRIEUX & LUMED: software to help the appropriate use R&D activities of the BIOFIRE® line of antibiotics in hospitals n KENYA: Opening of a new subsidiary n BIOMÉRIEUX & ASTUTE MEDICAL: distribution in the United States of the NEPHROCHECK® test for risk assessment of acute kidney injuries (AKI). This distribution agreement adds to a license and collaboration agreement signed in 2015 for the development of the NEPHROCHECK® test on bioMérieux’s VIDAS® immunoassay platform. In April 2018, bioMérieux announced the acquisition of Astute Medical. * Campus de l’Étoile * Production line for * New facility for the BIOFIRE® line in BACT/ALERT® bottles Salt Lake City * SOLUTIONS MICROBIOLOGY IMMUNOASSAYS MOLECULAR BIOLOGY BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® for blood culture F D A FDA L E A RANCE C FED ACE CLEAR ANCE FDA CLEAR ANCE CLARAN BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® RP2 Respiratory infections VITEK® MS RAPIDEC® CARBA NP test Expanded database Detection of antibiotic CE FDAA MA for pathogen resistance VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ test NCE RK ING CLEAR identification (to carbapenems) Lower respiratory tract infections and sepsis. Antibiotic stewardship BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® RP2plus FDA CLEAR ANCE Respiratory infections VIDAS® D-DIMER test Extended use for monitoring women suffering from venous ETEST® Ceftolozane/Tazobactam CHROMID® Colistin thromboembolic disease and ETEST® Ceftazidime/Avibactam HUMAN ANIMAL Detection of resistance ARGENE® Solution and For antibiotic susceptibility to colistin, a last-resort ENVIRONMENT FOOD VIDAS® anti-HEV IgG and TTV R-GENE® testing antibiotic, for humans VIDAS® anti-HEV IgM tests for transplant patients and animals Hepatitis E 4 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 5 CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER The power to fight infectious diseases APPLICATIONS bioMérieux wants to unleash the full power of diagnostics to fight infectious diseases and make an even greater impact to improve patient care: antimicrobial resistance and sepsis are just two of the targets against which the Company reinforced its arms in 2017. #pioneeringdiagnostics January 9, 2018, bioMérieux adopted a new logo, backed by a new communications campaign GROWING ADOPTION The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® product line is available in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia ON A GLOBAL SCALE Pacific. While it first met with success in the United States, today our customers are found across the globe, with 13.5% of sales outside the United States. The adoption of BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® has been further supported by the results of a great number of scientific studies illustrating the medical value of these tests for biologists and clinicians, whilst improving patient outcome and reducing healthcare spending. AMERICAS REGION “ UNITED STATES When a patient comes into the emergency room * BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® solutions have been available with any type of worsening respiratory illness, or signs and since 2010, their commercial success leaves no doubt: in symptoms of an influenza-like illness, we put them in 2017 the Company passed the 1,000th-customer mark. isolation right away because we don’t yet know what he has. * These solutions have been widely adopted by university With the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel, we can hospitals as well as pediatric specialty centers. have a result ready for physicians in an hour, which is something that we’ve previously never been able to do. CLINICAL APPLICATIONS CANADA Having the certainty of being able to promise a result in an hour is extremely powerful. * Routine use of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory For the patient, this helps improve response times not only BIOMÉRIEUX, Panel at Vancouver General Hospital after publication of a study demonstrating its positive impact on the for treatment, but also for infection control. And for treatment of patients. Increased collaboration between the hospital, it helps improve bed management and bed PIONEER IN THE MOLECULAR doctors and biologists and the rapid use of test results flow time.” have decreased patient isolation times by four days, * DR. TITUS WONG while generating economies for the hospital. SYNDROMIC DIAGNOSIS OF Primary investigator of the study carried out in Canada • Medical Microbiologist and Infection Control Physician at Vancouver General Hospital, Canada LATIN AMERICA INFECTIOUS DISEASES “ * BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® products are available in 15 Latin American countries, including Brazil since 2017. The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel helped * b ioMérieux continues to lead the field of syndromic us make immediate clinical decisions. We observed infectious disease testing and participated in more a significant decrease in the use of antibiotics to treat than 55 medical conferences. respiratory infections and a reduction in the length of hospital stays and treatments required in our intensive care unit.” * 4 webinars were developed with infectious diseases For most patients with an infectious disease, the first n By identifying up to 24 pathogens in about 1 hour specialists to illustrate the value of BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® * DR. RAUL BUSTOS BETANZOO symptoms are nonspecific: fever, diarrhea, coughing, with a single diagnostic test, BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® for the diagnosis of respiratory and gastrointestinal Medical Director, Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, Clinica Sanatorio Alemán, Chile headache, etc. For physicians, although it may be reshapes the practices of healthcare professionals. infections, neuro-meningitis and sepsis. More than 100 feasible to identify the kind of syndrome (respiratory, This product line is especially appreciated in pediatric healthcare professionals took part in each of these “ gastrointestinal, blood, neuro-meningitis), determining medicine, intensive care and emergency care. educational webinars. the exact cause is more difficult. With the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Meningitis/Encephalitis n These tests allow the distinction between viral and Panel, we have seen a reduction in the result reporting time, bacterial infections and may also detect antibiotic we have appreciated the ample diversity of microorganisms To meet this challenge, a syndromic approach using resistance genes, thus supporting the appropriate in the panel and ease of use in handling the test. the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® multiplex molecular biology use of antibiotics. In my medical practice, having Listeria monocytogenes in system, provides physicians with high medical value information. In 45 to 65 minutes, from a single sample n Because they are easy to use, the tests provide the Meningitis/Encephalitis Panel is a differentiator.» and with a single test, it can simultaneously detect the healthcare professionals with actionable, rapid answers * DR. GUSTAVO BRUNEIRA most common pathogens (bacteria, viruses, yeast and in close proximity to their patients. Operational Director of Senne Liquor, Brazil parasites) that may be the cause of an infection. 8 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 9 MOLECULAR SYNDROMIC DIAGNOSIS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES GROWING ADOPTION ON A GLOBAL SCALE ASIA PACIFIC REGION EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA REGION In this region, the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® range is “ WESTERN EUROPE particularly used, in Hong Kong, Singapore and India. The ResPOC trial shows that molecular * The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® product line grew in 2017 Pediatricians and doctors working in intensive care with the launch of its RP2plus panel, an expanded and Point-of-Care testing using the BIOFIRE® especially appreciate the medical value of this solution. faster version of the RP panel that contains 2 additional FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel improves Respiratory and gastrointestinal panels have recorded the pathogens: Bordetella parapertussis, one of the bacterial the care of adult patients hospitalized with strongest sales. pathogens that causes whooping cough, which is highly acute respiratory illness compared to standard care. * Hong Kong: Most of the private hospitals are equipped contagious, and the coronavirus that causes the Middle Generating rapid, accurate results that can be used to aid with BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems. The rapid, accurate East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV). clinical decision-making in real-time leads to reductions in results these tests deliver improve patient care. The the length of hospital stay in addition to improvements in BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel is by far MIDDLE EAST influenza detection, antiviral use and isolation facility use. the most widely used panel. The densely-populated Unnecessary antibiotic use is also reduced in patients * The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® innovative technology was with exacerbation of asthma and chronic obstructive Hong Kong area would be at risk in the event of influenza * BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® TORCH adopted in hospitals in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the pulmonary disease.” outbreaks and is implementing rapid-care protocols for United Arab Emirates. patients presenting with a respiratory syndrome. * DR. TRISTAN CLARK THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE AFRICA Associate Professor, Honorary Consultant in Infectious Diseases, MENU ON THE MARKET University of Southampton, United Kingdom *G  rowing adoption of BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® technology. THE RESPIRATORY PANEL a complete panel that simultaneously analyzes 20 viruses and bacteria that cause respiratory diseases. “ It has been improved and expanded with The use of BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® the Respiratory 2 and Respiratory 2plus panels, Respiratory Panel greatly facilitates which can simultaneously test for 21 and the management of patients (judicious use 22 pathogens even faster, in 45 minutes; of antivirals and antibiotics) as well as the implementation of (FDA accreditation for RP2 and for RP2plus appropriate infection control measures (patient allocation, which is also CE-marked). antibiotic stewardships, etc.) in the hospital. The short turnaround time allows prompt triage of patients whilst THE RESPIRATORY PANEL EZ (RP EZ) which the comprehensive panel provides highly sensitive detects 11 viral and 3 bacterial pathogens and accurate results.” associated with respiratory infections. RP EZ has been CLIA-waived for use in small point-of-care * DR. TANG SIU FAI, BONE laboratories in the United States only. Honorary Consultant in Microbiology, Honorary Adjunct Professor, Microbiology Department, University of Hong Kong, Specialist of Clinical Microbiology and THE BLOOD CULTURE IDENTIFICATION PANEL Infection Pathology Department, Hong Kong Sanatorium and Hospital which identifies the 24 pathogens most frequently responsible for bloodstream infections as well as “ 3 antibiotic resistance genes, directly from A NEW BUILDING FOR BIOFIRE BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel was a positive blood culture test. introduced in Changi General Hospital in 2016 to meet the IN SALT LAKE CITY growing demand for diagnosis of viral respiratory tract THE GASTROINTESTINAL PANEL to identify 22 of the most common causes of infectious The “Alain Mérieux Center for Molecular Diagnostics”, infections, especially in patients with more severe pulmonary a 26,500 square meters new facility, houses R&D, infection. The RP test proved very successful after introduction, diarrhea. manufacturing and support teams of BioFire, so much so that demand exceeded supply.” THE MENINGITIS/ENCEPHALITIS PANEL which the U.S. company acquired by bioMérieux in 2014. * DR. TAN THEAN YEN identifies 14 bacterial, viral, and fungal causes of This enhanced capacity allows bioMérieux to meet Assistant Professor, Director and Senior Consultant in Microbiology meningitis and encephalitis, directly from growing demand from customers all over the world. Changi General Hospital, Singapore cerebrospinal fluid. 10 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 11 BIOMÉRIEUX’S INVOLVEMENT WITH INTERNATIONAL BODIES Every 4 minutes, bioMérieux is one of the pioneers of in the world a person the development of diagnostic tests for the identification of infectious disease agents dies, from an infection caused by and the detection of their potential resistance to antibiotics, as well as antibiotic susceptibility bacteria that have become testing to help physicians determine precisely 1,2,3 resistant to antibiotics . which antibiotic to prescribe. In 2017, bioMérieux was a signatory to the declaration on antimicrobial resistance at the World By 2050, Economic Forum in Davos (Switzerland). 10 million people The Company also took part in the launch of the AMR Industry Alliance, a consortium could die every year from created to drive and measure industry progress and provide sustainable solutions an infection caused by antibiotic4 to curb antimicrobial resistance. Mark Miller, resistant bacteria . bioMérieux’s Corporate Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, sits on the Alliance’s Board of Directors as a representative of Each year in the United States, the diagnostics industry. CLINICAL APPLICATIONS at least 2 million people become infected FIGHTING ANTIMICROBIAL “ with bacteria that are resistant Rapid diagnostic tools for bacterial infections, to antibiotics and at least which allow doctors to identify the nature of an infection RESISTANCE in minutes instead of hours or days, have the potential to 23,000 people die as transform the diagnosis and treatment process from an 2 a direct result . empirical one to a precise one. […] This is what is needed to make a dent in the very large number of antibiotic prescriptions given mistakenly for viral infections.” * THE REVIEW ON ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE CHAIRED BY JIM O’NEILL (OCTOBER 2015) A GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH based on the continuum between human health and 1) Antimicrobial resistance WHO Fact sheet N°194, updated April 2015. http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs194/en EMERGENCY animal health in the fight against infectious agents. The European Commission, which has been strongly 2) CDC website on antimicrobial resistance: www.cdc.gov/drugresistance 3) Laxminarayan et al. Antibiotic resistance – the need for global solutions. Lancet Infectious Diseases 2013;13:1057–98. committed to this issue for several years, published an Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is recognized as a 4) Jim O’Neill, Antimicrobial resistance: Tackling a crisis for the health and wealth of Nations. This action plan in June 2017 based on this same approach estimated figure takes into account infections caused by 6 major pathogens: Escherichia coli, public health emergency worldwide. Recently, several Klebsiella pneumoniae, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Staphylococcus aureus, as well as HIV to combat antimicrobial resistance. and the parasite that causes malaria. decisions have supported and strengthened the international community’s commitment to address In addition, in July 2017, AMR was included in the this threat. The 2016 adoption of the One Health Declaration made by the members of the G20, approach by the United Nations General Assembly underlining the importance of a global health approach marked a decisive turning point. This approach is and the development of the use of diagnostic tests. 12 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 13 FIGHTING ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE EXPANDING OUR PORTFOLIO STRATEGIC COLLABORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ RAPIDEC® CARBA NP TO SUPPORT ANTIBIOTIC FOR A PARTNERSHIP COLLABORATION WITH PFIZER STEWARDSHIP IN RESPIRATORY THE DETECTION WITH LUMED FOR ANTIBIOTIC FOR THE ICREST STUDY INFECTIONS AND SEPSIS OF CARBAPENEM STEWARDSHIP IN HOSPITALS FDA CLEAR ANCE RESISTANCE As part of an ongoing collaboration with the pharmaceutical FED ACE In July 2017, this high medical value manual In October 2017, bioMérieux signed a partnership agreement company Pfizer, bioMérieux supports iCREST (infectionCL ARAN with Lumed, an innovative start-up specialized in information Carbapenem Resistance Evaluation Surveillance Trial), a test received 510(k) clearance from the FDA. multicenter surveillance study. This project pursues two technology and healthcare. The agreement concerns in The RAPIDEC® CARBA NP test provides a particular the distribution of Lumed’s APSS (Antimicrobial objectives: to determine the prevalence of infections simple, rapid way to confirm the presence Prescription Surveillance System) software in Canada, caused by bacteria resistant to the carbapenem class of of resistance to carbapenems by detecting the United States and Europe. APSS is a decision support antibiotics and to evaluate the efficacy of a new antibiotic carbapenemaseproducing bacteria. Carbasystem designed for hospital teams in charge of antibiotic combining ceftazidime and avibactam for the treatment penemases are enzymes that hydrolyze stewardship. A recently published study demonstrated of these serious infections. Three products developed carbapenems, a very broad-spectrum class that it can lead to a 20% reduction in the use of antibiotics by bioMérieux are being used: the chromogenic culture In February 2017, bioMérieux received FDA clearance for of antibiotics. Carbapenems are used exclusively in hospital in hospitals5. medium CHROMID® CARBA SMART and two antibiotic the expanded use of VIDAS® B·R·A·H·M·S PCT™. This test settings to treat multi-drug resistant bacterial infections. susceptibility tests, ETEST® Ceftazidime/Avibactam and helps physicians determine the most appropriate antibiotic This rapid detection leads to improved patient care and ETEST® Meropenem. to prescribe for patients presenting with lower respiratory better control of healthcare-associated infections. tract infections as well as patients presenting with sepsis. This manual method is complementary to the VITEK® 2 Using the VIDAS® B·R·A·H·M·S PCT™ test in these frequent system for the identification of bacteria and automated RENEWED and important clinical situations will contribute to limiting susceptibility testing, and also to ETEST® manual tests, SUPPORT FOR the inappropriate and unnecessary use of antibiotics, which used to determine the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration. THE GLOBAL-PPS may avoid the side effects associated with their use while The MIC is the lowest concentration of antibiotic necessary slowing and even preventing the emergence of resistant to inhibit the growth of a specific bacterium. bacteria. In 2017, bioMérieux renewed its support for the Global Point Prevalence Survey (GLOBAL-PPS), which brings a unique TWO NEW ETEST® STRIPS knowledge of antibiotic consumption and antimicrobial CHROMID® COLISTIN resistance worldwide. TO DETERMINE Coordinated by Professor Hermann Goossens and FOR USE IN BOTH HUMAN AND ANTIBIOTIC Dr. Ann Versporten of the University of Antwerp (Belgium), VETERINARY MEDICINE SUSCEPTIBILITY this survey highlights the importance of in vitro diagnostics and the need to expand the use of diagnostic tests to Colistin resistance is a threat to both human and animal ETEST® Ceftolozane/Tazobactam improve antibiotic prescribing practices worldwide. health. This is why the chromogenic culture medium and ETEST® Ceftazidime/Avibactam In 2017, the GLOBAL-PPS was conducted in more than CHROMID® Colistin was designed and validated for the determine the Minimum Inhibitory 65 countries. It focused in particular on education and lowscreening of both human and veterinary samples, to detect Concentration (MIC) values and medium-income countries. This project is designed to the presence of colistin-resistant bacteria. This product is necessary to effectively treat infections caused by multihelp hospitals draw up action plans based on the results of fully in line with the One Health approach as defined by the drug resistant organisms. the survey in their own centers and on local priorities. General Assembly of the United Nations in 2016. Launched in the second half of 2017, these tests assess the antimicrobial susceptibility of specific bacteria to these new antibiotics indicated for the treatment of infections in adults faced with limited therapeutic options. They expand 5) Nault et al. Sustained impact of a computer-assisted antimicrobial stewardship intervention on antimicrobial use and length of stay, The Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, march 2017. the ETEST® range, which includes more than 95 antimi6) Committed to antimicrobial resistance and antibiotic stewardship, bioMérieux is the exclusive sponsor of the Global Point Prevalence Survey as well as of the online training related to this survey. The Company funds the survey but plays no role in the study design, selection, analysis and interpretation of data nor in drafting the report. The data, which are strictly confidential, are stored anonymously at crobial references. the Coordination Center of the University of Antwerp (Belgium). 14 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 15 A DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT FOR THE NEPHROCHECK® TEST In March 2017, bioMérieux and Astute Medical entered into a distribution agreement for the NEPHROCHECK® test in the United States. This high medical value test is a tool for early risk assessment of acute kidney injury (AKI) based on urinary biomarkers, that is changing the way hospital physicians approach this pathology. AKI is a frequent complication of severe conditions, sepsis in particular, and increases its mortality rate. The distribution agreement adds to the 2015 license and collaboration agreement between the two THE SEPSIS SOLUTION partners for the development of a NEPHROCHECK® test on bioMérieux’s VIDAS® immunoassay system. INTEGRATED APPROACH In April 2018, bioMérieux announced the acquisition bioMérieux offers a range of immunoassay, microof Astute Medical. biology and molecular biology tests. Launched in 2016, the Sepsis Solution, leads to workflow optimization so that sepsis patient samples arriving to the laboratory undergo analysis as quickly as possible, thus providing clinicians with results that facilitate medical decision BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® CLINICAL APPLICATIONS making. ENSURES FASTER THIS OFFERING INCLUDES: DETECTION OF SEPSIS, A MAJOR PUBLIC * The measurement of a patient’s procalcitonin level with the VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ test; INFECTIONS HEALTH CHALLENGE * Blood cultures, with the BACT/ALERT® range and BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO®, a fully automated blood FDA CLEAR ANCE culture system that continuously processes urgent samples 24/7; * Molecular syndromic diagnostics, with In April 2017, bioMérieux’s automated blood culture the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Blood Culture system BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® received 510(k) Identification Panel, which after just 2 minutes clearance from the FDA. BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO®, hands-on time for a positive blood culture, which has also received CE marking, is the first identifies pathogens in one hour; continuously-monitoring blood culture microbial * Rapid, automated identification detection system with “Load & Go” technology, making of pathogens using mass spectrometry with it possible to load samples in the system 24/7. It the VITEK® MS system; helps streamline lab workflows and reduce the time Each year, 27 to 30 million people worldwide are In May 2017, the World Health Organization adopted * Reliable identification of pathogens and necessary to detect bacteria in the bloodstream. affected by sepsis1, which causes one death every a resolution to improve the prevention, diagnosis automated antibiotic susceptibility testing with 3 or 4 seconds. Sepsis affects people of all ages, but for and clinical management of sepsis, a clear indication The system also features a unique blood level the VITEK® 2 system; some individuals the risk is higher: for those with a of the international community’s recognition of sepsis detection technology measuring the blood volume * The manual ETEST® range, providing precise compromised immune system, certain age groups as a major health concern. in each blood culture bottle. It helps laboratories information about an antibiotic’s inhibitory (children under one year and people over 60), patients track and ensure collection of the recommended Such global awareness is fully in line with concentration (indicating bacterial sensitivity receiving an immunosuppressive therapy, and people blood volume in order to be compliant with bioMérieux’s longstanding commitment to combat to antibiotics); who are more susceptible following an illness. accreditation and quality guidelines such as the this serious infection. The Company has the most * Lab Consulting solutions to analyze sample flow standards from the College of American Pathologists. With sepsis, every minute counts and medical decisions comprehensive offering on the market for the diagnosis in the laboratory and propose an organization to must be made extremely rapidly2. For sepsis, mortality of sepsis. improve operational efficiency and time-to-results; lies between 20 to 30% and in the case of septic shock, * MYLA® software, which processes microbiology 1) Global Sepsis Alliance, https://www.global-sepsis-alliance.org is as high as 70% 3. Diagnostics play an essential data and ensures connectivity to link several 2) Kumar et al., Critical Care Medicine, 2006, vol. 34 : p. 1589-1596 role for optimized patient care. microbiology analysis instruments. 3) Chun et al., Journal of Laboratory Automation, 2015, Vol. 20(5) 539–56 16 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 17 INDUSTRIAL DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER The power to protect consumer health APPLICATIONS Harnessing the power of diagnostics is essential to protect consumer health. Ensuring the safety of agri-food and pharmaceutical products and preventing the risk of contamination are priorities for bioMérieux, which in 2017 confirmed its position as leader in industrial microbiology. #pioneeringdiagnostics IDENTIFICATION: GREATER FLEXIBILITY, MORE ANSWERS In 2017, bioMérieux and Mérieux NutriSciences launched the VITEK Express identification service in the United States, Italy and Spain. For labs that may need confirmation, this service allows them to send their samples to Mérieux NutriSciences for complementary tests to be performed using mass spectrometry on the VITEK® MS system or using gene sequencing tools, thus benefiting from bioMérieux’s expertise in microbiology. INCREASE IN DEMAND FOR MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL IN BIOPRODUCTION AND MEETING PERSONALIZED THERAPIES CUSTOMERS’ EXPECTATIONS The bioproduction sector is promising for the development We have invested heavily in our production tool in of bioMérieux’s microbiological control activity, notably in recent years to guarantee supplies of culture media for the Americas region. Bioproduction involves producing customers in the pharmaceutical sector. We have also medicines using biotechnologies. They can be used for invested in quality to maintain the highest standards in instance in the field of immunotherapy for cancer patients the manufacture of these products. as well as for gene and cell therapy. INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS In 2017, twenty-two customer audits took place at the In 2017, bioMérieux’s activity to serve these industrial Craponne site, our largest culture media production customers increased and its rapid microbiology solutions site for pharmaceutical customers. During these visits, THE IMPORTANCE OF such as BACT/ALERT® and SCANRDI® are particularly auditors were able to witness first-hand the quality of successful. The speed at which the results of analyses are our production and the dedication of our teams. delivered is a critical factor for this industry: once control INDUSTRIAL results are obtained, these medicines can be released. For some conditions, it is crucial to reduce the window of time for treatment. MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL A PROVEN SOLUTION FOR ENDOTOXIN DETECTION In 2016, bioMérieux acquired Hyglos, a German-based company, specialized in the detection of endotoxins in pharmaceutical products. Hyglos has developed an WHAT ARE ENDOTOXINS? innovative method from recombinant proteins that avoids Endotoxins are a component of the outer the use of blood taken from horseshoe crabs (Limulidae) membrane of certain Gram-negative Diagnostic tests are used to monitor the microbiological With strong development over the past four years, currently used in some endotoxin detection tests. This bacteria that can cause high fevers. quality of manufactured products for agri-food, sales growth to customers in the pharmaceutical family of crab is endangered in Asia and protected in the pharmaceutical, cosmetics and veterinary purposes. sector doubled in 2017, driven by growth across the United States. In 2017, bioMérieux and Hyglos teams jointly Pharmacopoeial standards require three regions. This performance confirms that applying developed a new generation of tests based on these that this type of substance be absent from bioMérieux‘s solutions for industrial customers are our clinical microbiology expertise to industrial recombinant technologies. pharmaceutical products that come into designed to test both their production and the microbiological control is a worthwhile strategy. contact with the bloodstream or the central production environment. In 2017, this activity recorded Hyglos has also developed a unique and original technology very solid growth at 9.8%. for detecting endotoxins that may be“masked”in some complex nervous system, such as injectable drugs pharmaceutical formulations. This technological solution and medical devices. It is also was developed to specifically meet the needs of companies recommended that the endotoxins be in the pharmaceutical sector for their bioproduction quantified in raw materials or in-process activities. materials. 20 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 21 AN INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA REGION SALES €878 million n Growth: + 3,9% Growth in Europe, driven by the good results of the main SOLID GROWTH subsidiaries: France, Germany and Italy Sustained increases in the Middle East and Turkey CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS: Growth fueled by the deployment of BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® in Europe and the other ranges in the Middle East, Turkey, Russia and Africa INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL: Sustained activity in France, the UK, Russia and Spain HEADQUARTERS SUBSIDIARIES BIO-INDUSTRIAL SITES R&D CENTERS ASIA PACIFIC REGION SALES €397 million n Growth: + 11% AMERICAS REGION China was the primary driver of SALES €1,006 million n Growth: + 16,5% GAINING growth MOMENTUM Solid performance in India & ASEAN* Continued double-digit strong growth in REMARKABLE North America. CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS: PERFORMANCE Acceleration in Latin America: +13% Commercial momentum sustained by the strategic lines VITEK®, BACT/ALERT®, VIDAS® and CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS: BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Sales growth boosted by BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® and the VITEK® microbiology line INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL: Strong driver of business growth, in particular thanks to INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL: the VITEK® product range Strong momentum of the VITEK® and VIDAS® lines * Association of Southeast Asian Nations 22 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER The power to save lives True to our public health mission and driven by the power of diagnostics, bioMérieux is committed to protecting life. We are focused on improving the quality of life of the many communities we interact with, the development of our employees, furthering access to care for the most vulnerable patients, countering new infectious threats worldwide, and sustaining the efficacy of healthcare systems #pioneeringdiagnostics for future generations… THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS COMMITTED TO BEING A SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE COMPANY, WITH A HUMANISTIC VISION As a pioneer in the field of in vitro diagnostics for THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT more than 50 years, bioMérieux has always combined economic development with a socially responsible, bioMérieux has been a member of the United humanistic approach in line with the values upheld Nations Global Compact since 2003. by the Mérieux family. The Global Compact’s key principles* have guided our initiatives over the course of 2017. From the Our Company’s actions extend beyond our products beginning, our Company has always placed great and services. They reflect a broader vision of society, importance on implementing initiatives that with the ambition of contributing to the fight against promote respect for human rights, labor conditions, infectious diseases worldwide and addressing major the environment and the fight against corruption, public health challenges such as antimicrobial resistance. which comprise the four pillars that ensure the Through its tangible accomplishments, this vision strength of the Global Compact. supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and upholds the principles of the UN Global Compact. RECOGNITION OF OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY In past years, bioMérieux integrated Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indices. This includes the Ethibel Forum (Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe), which builds on the work of the rating agency Vigeo, and the FTSE Russell (FTSE4Good Index). In 2017, the Company joined additional indices and obtained new labels: Vigeo Eiris, OEKOM Research, CDP and EcoVadis, which is a platform for rating corporate social and environmental performance. EcoVadis ranked bioMérieux among the top 5% of companies for excellent CSR performance, recognition of the Company’s ongoing efforts to reconcile a sustainable social commitment to serving public health with business development. * See appendix 26 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 27 The findings of the GLOBAL-PPS highlighted the importance A GLOBAL HEALTH CHALLENGE of in vitro diagnostics to optimize antibiotic prescribing Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) causes practices. The survey enables each participating hospital 700,000 deaths each year. If nothing is done to to assess its performance and compare its practices with 1. COMMITTED TO PEOPLE those of other centers to identify areas for improvement. The GLOBAL-PPS rapidly demonstrated its value as an effective tool to track and measure corrective actions combat this problem, forecasts1 suggest that AMR will cause 10 million deaths annually by 2050. Overconsumption of antibiotics and their implemented within the hospital centers. In some cases, misuse in both human and animal medicine is As a public health stakeholder, bioMérieux places the survey prompted national improvement programs. one of the primary causes of AMR, which is why the patient and, more broadly, public health at the it is urgent to promote the appropriate use of heart of its business activity. As a Company, we are antibiotics. aware of our social responsibility and, in accordance with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights we are committed to providing global health solutions that improve the management of infectious A WEBSITE FOR AWARENESS diseases. Our commitment focuses on four areas: AND INFORMATION Prof OYIN ODUYEBO fighting antimicrobial resistance to sustain the efficacy In June 2016, bioMérieux created a website Clinical Microbiologist with of antibiotics for future generations, furthering access dedicated to antibiotic resistance: the Department of Medical to diagnostics for the most disadvantaged populations, Microbiology and Parasitology www.antimicrobial-resistance.biomerieux.com. improving maternal and infant health, and combatting of the College of Medicine This educational site provides information for epidemics. and the Lagos University healthcare professionals and the general public. Hospital (Nigeria) SUSTAINING ANTIBIOTIC EFFICACY A DISCUSSION Concrete applications on the ground WITH LORD JIM O’NEILL FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS “Thanks to the GLOBAL-PPS, we were able to evaluate our antibiotic prescribing practices for the very first time in Nigeria,” said Prof Oyin Oduyebo. She has been involved in the Nigerian national action plan for combating antimicrobial resistance by getting Nigerian laboratories ready for antimicrobial resistance surveillance and developing a national protocol for surveillance of antimicrobial resistance for the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. She relied on the GLOBAL-PPS findings to contribute to this project. “In Nigeria, the GLOBAL-PPS has provided information to improve our understanding of the practices of various BIOMÉRIEUX SUPPORTS THE GLOBAL-PPS centers and to issue recommendations, particularly concerning antibiotic use and microbiology analyses to Antimicrobial resistance is a major threat to public health worldwide. bioMérieux develops diagnostic solutions to ensure that antibiotics are used correctly * In 2017, bioMérieux renewed its support for the coordinating team of the GLOBAL-PPS, Professor Herman Goossens and Dr. Ann Versporten of the University reduce the unnecessary prescription of antibiotics,” explained Prof Oyin Oduyebo. “It is also important to confirm so that they will remain effective. We also organize of Antwerp (Belgium). This study was conducted in 2015 the value of prescribing antibiotics, based on microbiological awareness-raising initiatives to ensure the proper in 53 countries and 335 hospital centers, collecting data analyses, in order to determine the optimum duration of On March 7, 2018, as part of its AMR Forum, use of these treatments. Since the launch of the Global from over 100,000 hospitalized patients. treatment as well as to develop and defend our own recombioMérieux welcomed Lord Jim O’Neill, Point Prevalence Survey (GLOBAL-PPS) in 2014, we mendations for surgical prophylaxis.” an eminent economist, politician and The 2017 GLOBAL-PPS was conducted in 51 countries, have supported this survey of unprecedented scope philanthropist who chaired The Review on targeting resource-limited countries in particular. The The GLOBAL-PPS was renewed in 2018. The survey takes a to obtain key information about antibiotic use and introduction of new tools, such as on-line training developed long-term perspective to compare data at regular interAntimicrobial Resistance, for a day of discussion bacterial resistance in hospitals worldwide. by the British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy vals and measure the impact of implemented actions and at the Marcy l’Etoile campus (France) (BSAC) with the support of bioMérieux, has strengthened observed improvements within the hospital. Experience attended by nearly 100 AMR specialists. the educational dimension of the survey. Combined with has shown that identifying potential areas for improveother tools, the on-line training module is designed to ment and raising awareness among healthcare professiosupport hospitals as they develop custom-designed nals about the appropriate use of antibiotics are essential 1) OMS et Jim O’Neill, Antimicrobial resistance: Tackling a crisis for the health and wealth actions plans based on survey findings. to the fight against antimicrobial resistance. of Nations (December 2014) 28 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 29 A WORKSHOP THE IVORY COAST In February 2017, bioMérieux sponsored a three-day workshop in Grand Bassam (the Ivory Coast), organized by the Institute of Medicine and Applied Epidemiology (University of Paris-Diderot) and the University of Abidjan. The workshop explored diagnostic and therapeutic fever management strategies in subSaharan Africa. bioMérieux led sessions devoted to the diagnosis of sepsis and syndromic diagnostics. The workshop was attended by 100 participants: experts, pediatricians, and gynecologist-obstetricians who are faced with the challenge of managing maternal and newborn infections. IMPROVING CARE FOR YOUNG CHILDREN bioMérieux and McMaster University (Canada) have IMPROVING MATERNAL AND INFANT HEALTH established a partnership for the donation of a BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® system and Gastrointestinal panels. AND COMBATTING EPIDEMICS These tests are being used for a clinical study currently being conducted at the Botswana National Laboratory. The study aims to optimize the management of acute diarrhea in young children. COMBATTING MERS-COV Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is an emerging disease identified for the first time in 2012 TRAINING AND A CLINICAL STUDY in Saudi Arabia. It is caused by a coronavirus, which IN GUINEA is responsible for diseases ranging from the common bioMérieux has a longstanding presence in Africa, cold to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). As new epidemiological trends for malaria are seen in Africa, where we have built up a distribution network for our According to the WHO, mortality rates associated with a significant drop in incidence, and as other diseases diagnostic solutions. The Company is particularly with Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus are appearing or re-appearing (the Ebola Virus Disease, committed to improve the health of mothers and (MERS-CoV) are around 35%. In some cases, a for example), diagnostics will become increasingly important young children by targeting four priority diseases: MERS-CoV epidemic, such as the one that broke in the way fevers are managed. respiratory infections, diarrhea, sepsis and meningitis. out in the Republic of Korea, has led to a significant Initiatives are designed to improve access to diagnostics, Managing patients with fever is a key challenge for the risk of widespread transmission and disruptions to provide education and training on in vitro diagnostic diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases in Guinea. healthcare systems and society. tools, foster public-private partnerships, and develop The association Santé en Entreprise organized a three-day In April 2017, bioMérieux announced the CE marking innovative products that address the specific public training workshop on this topic in September 2017 in of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel health challenges facing African countries. Conakry. bioMérieux teams contributed to the design and (RP2plus), which tests simultaneously for implementation of the workshop. 22 pathogens (18 viruses and 4 bacteria) that cause Within the scope of a partnership to combat the Ebola virus, respiratory tract infections, including MERS-CoV. bioMérieux donated 2 BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems to This expanded version of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Donka Hospital in Conakry for the hospital to conduct a Respiratory Panel features reduced time to results clinical study of the utilization of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® (45 minutes instead of 1 hour previously) and greater BioThreat-E test (Ebola). sensitivity. 30 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 31 RENEWED FOCUS A NEW LABORATORY IN TUNISIA ON MATERNAL AND Construction began on the new Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratory of Tunis in April 2017. It will be the first INFANT HEALTH BSL-3 containment laboratory in Tunisia and one of the only such labs in Africa. Managed by Taking a global health approach, the Foundations the Institut Pasteur in Tunis, it will contribute to actively support programs to protect the most improving health research in Tunisia and is being vulnerable groups, especially mothers and children. In built to comply with the most demanding interaddition to working to build local biological capacity, national safety standards. The new lab joins the they focus on food and water safety, nutrition, housing, network of Rodolphe Mérieux laboratories in Mali, education and socio-economic concerns. They contiCambodia, Laos, Bangladesh, Haiti, Madagascar, nued initiatives in 2017 in countries where laboratories have been set up as well as countries affected by Lebanon and Brazil. humanitarian crises. RENOVATIONS IN CAMBODIA Extensive renovations were undertaken in 2017 at the Rodolphe Mérieux laboratory, built in 2005 IN IRAQI KURDISTAN at the University of Health Sciences (UHS) in The Foundations decided to enlarge the Pauline Jaricot Cambodia. The lab’s technical capacities were Medical Center in Erbil, created in 2016, along with two project also improved as it prepares to host a biobank partners from Lyon: Œuvres Pontificales Missionnaires de Lyon and Fondation Saint-Irénée. This center provides for the storage of biological materials used in comprehensive medical care for the numerous displaced UHS research projects and new molecular biology PROMOTING ACCESS TO DIAGNOSTICS persons in this region. The new facilities, inaugurated in facilities that will enlarge the scope of its activities. early 2018, will be dedicated to providing care for mothers THROUGH THE FOUNDATIONS and infants. The Foundations are building a medical-social center for women and children of the Yazidi religion, whose members have been massacred by ISIS. The Fondation Mérieux also plans to rebuild the primary school in Qaraqosh that was destroyed by ISIS. IN HAITI In Haiti, the Foundations support various children’s homes, C 100 M 72 J0 N 32 including the village of Nazareth in Leogane, a center that provides a home and support for orphans and disadvantaged Pantone : 281 C children from birth to age six. It was founded in 2012, in AN IVORY COAST TEAM RECEIVES As part of its sponsorship activities, bioMérieux the aftermath of the earthquake, thanks to the support of THE CHRISTOPHE MÉRIEUX PRIZE supports the initiatives of two foundations: the the Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux. CurrentFondation Mérieux, which has public interest status The 2017 Christophe Mérieux prize was awarded ly 60 children live at the center. In 2017, the Foundations and celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2017, and the to Serge Eholié and Xavier Anglaret of the Center continued to provide support for the children’s home run Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux, under for Research on Infectious Diseases and Associated by Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal in Cape Haitian, the aegis of the Institut de France. Pathologies in Abidjan (the Ivory Coast). Together where 17 children live. They also gave ongoing support to These two independent family foundations combat the Association for Cooperation with Micro Enterprise, they direct a top-level team of Ivorian and French infectious diseases that affect developing countries, which for the past 11 years has provided access to microscientists who conduct research on infectious especially through capacity-building in the field of credit for more than 4,500 women living with HIV/AIDS. diseases and train young scientists in medical diagnostics. In 2017, bioMérieux allocated €2 million research. Since the prize was established in to the Mérieux Foundations. IN MADAGASCAR 2007 by the Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe The foundations work in close cooperation in around The Foundations support several medical-social centers Mérieux, it has been awarded to 12 scientists 30 countries. A number of projects to benefit the and associations by covering costs for hospitalization and who contribute at the grass-roots level to the most vulnerable communities have been carried out medical exams (for 100 people in 2017) and buying medicines fight against diseases affecting their countries. thanks to support from bioMérieux. (for 1,200 children in four centers and associations in 2017). Prizewinners received €500,000. 32 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 33 WITH RESEARCH INSTITUTES FORGING STRONG TIES Since it was founded, bioMérieux has always placed great importance on international multidisciplinary, public and private sector collaborations with academic research organizations, the medical and scientific community, and cutting-edge biotech companies. WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS In November 2017, bioMérieux entered into a research In May 2017, the research program ANTOINE * partnership in Brazil with the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP), the Institute of Tropical Medicine * (biomArkers to differeNtiate bacTerial frOm vIral iNfEctions) was launched by the bioMérieux-HCL joint and the Faculty of Medicine of the University of São Paulo research laboratory at the Lyon Sud Hospital. This project, to combat the complications associated with dengue, which contributes to the fight against antimicrobial chikungunya and Zika infections within the scope of the resistance, focuses on the diagnosis of severe bacterial ARBOBIOS project. The research program will involve at least infections in children presenting to the Emergency 2,000 patients and a research team of 20 scientists. Department. WITH SCHOOLS AND ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS In October 2016, bioMérieux, BIOASTER (the French As a partner of the Pasteur Institute since 2010, bioMérieux is a partner to top-ranking institutions of French higher education and universities, ensuring strong cooperation with the world of university research. * Technology Innovation Institute in Microbiology), the College of Industrial Physics and Chemistry of the * bioMérieux is taking part in a project to combat artemisinin resistance in the treatment of malaria, as city of Paris (ESPCI), GSK, Lyon Civil Hospitals and Sanofi well as improving the diagnostis of Chagas’ disease. In 2015, the Company established a five-year bioMérieux and the INSA Lyon Foundation (National combined their expertise to fight against sepsis through a * partnership with EMLYON Business School in France. bioMérieux was one of the first companies to join the Global * Institute of Applied Sciences) have been partners since 2010. The Company hosts interns from the school, research program named REALISM (REAnimation Low Immune Status Markers). Hosted by BIOASTER and the joint Business Network, which brings together major international organizes career conferences and participates in the INSA research laboratory bioMérieux-HCL, at the Édouard Herriot businesses that are partners to the school. We have become Business Forum. Hospital in Lyon, this project aims to improve the management the partner with expertise in the life sciences as part of the In 2017, bioMérieux employees took part in the first-ever for patients presenting a high risk of sepsis. I.D.E.A. program (Innovation, Design, Entrepreneurship & Bike & Run race with students from top-ranking schools and When the project reaches completion in late 2018, the results Arts), a novel learning approach adopted by EMLYON to universities, which provided an opportunity to interact with will allow industrial partners to develop diagnostic and train future innovative entrepreneurs. bioMérieux also rising talents. bioMérieux renewed its commitment for 2018. therapeutic solutions for sepsis. supports the development of research projects conducted In October 2017, bioMérieux renewed its commitment by the French Corporate Governance Institute (IFGE). bioMérieux is a founding member of the Fondation * to the Graduate School of Biology-Biochemistry* Université Grenoble Alpes (France) created in September 2014. The aim of this foundation is to support Biotechnology (ESTBB), one of the schools of the science faculty of the Catholic University of Lyon (France) by top-notch research projects and promote equal opportunity. signing a three-year partnership. The Company has a WITH ASSOCIATIONS longstanding connection with this school, and nearly Since 2015, bioMérieux has also participated in the BioHealth bioMérieux implements a policy to support the employment of young people facing hardship and 130 employees are ESTBB graduates. Since 2008, a repreComputing project at Université Grenoble Alpes, which promotes equal opportunity through partnerships with French associations. sentative of the bioMérieux Human Resources Department combines multidisciplinary approaches and develops has been a member of ESTBB’s Excellence Council. interfaces between the fields of healthcare, computer Since 2007, bioMérieux has been one of the main Since 2014, bioMérieux has been a partner of engineering and mathematics. As part of this project, the Company funded 20 scholarships, providing top students * In the United States, bioMérieux and the University of North Carolina are partners. The Company sponsors * partners of the association Sport dans la Ville, which aims to help young people find their place in society and the * Institut Télémaque, which provides schooling and homework support for youngsters from 7th grade in this specialization with an opportunity to pursue their the Biomanufacturing Training and Education Center (BTEC) working world through sport. The Company’s commitment through high school graduation. For the 2016-2017 studies in an international environment. and awards scholarships to two students annually. takes the form of mentoring and providing young people school year, the Company funded in-house tutors who At its site located in St. Louis, Missouri, bioMérieux hires with opportunities to gain professional experience. accompanied 16 young people selected by Institut interns from Washington University and gives scholarships In 2017, bioMérieux participated in the acquisition of a Télémaque. to students selected from three state universities. Management retrofitted school bus (Apprenti’Bus) to help the Sport dans teams maintain close ties with these institutes of higher la Ville association strengthen its programs by going from education, facilitating the recruitment of recent graduates city to city to provide educational support and promote to join bioMérieux teams. professional inclusion. 34 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 35 2. COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE The men and women who work for bioMérieux are the heart of our business. Our Company, owned by the founding family, believes that economic performance is not meaningful unless it is combined with social performance. Today, with 70% of our workforce located in France and the United States, we focus our actions on these two countries as the drivers and reference of the social responsibility policy that bioMérieux seeks to apply to all employees worldwide. HELPING EACH INDIVIDUAL TO SUCCEED “ The Fit for the Future training was a wonderful opportunity to boost my career and build my leadership. It also reminded me how important it is to encourage our teams in taking measurable risks and to not be driven by the fear of failure, from which AND DEVELOP THE SKILLS we can always grow and come back stronger. It was also the chance to meet colleagues coming from all entities of Institut Mérieux and to discover MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP the diversity of our Group. We are united by one common mission and serving more than a Company: New Leader Induction serving public health in a Company with a true family This training program for newly recruited managers * fosters the development of a shared management culture while facilitating a successful transition. Since it spirit and a culture.” * DANA SAIF was started in 2015, it has been an added feature in the Associate Director for Clinical Product Surveillance BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® activities At bioMérieux, training is provided by bioMérieux ORGANIZATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS Company’s attractiveness. teams as well as by Mérieux Université. This corporate In 2017, 46 people participated in the program. university was created in 2014 to support the * Mérieux Université also works with bioMérieux teams Fit For the Future “ development of the employees of the companies during team-building exercises designed to enhance that are part of Institut Mérieux. It also ensures the the organization’s collective performance while helping to This week of intensive training is a genuine talent In 2017, we set up the “Managing Differently” transmission of a strong entrepreneurial culture and helps build bridges within the Group. The University’s transform and improve the ways teams work together. * booster, bringing together employees to work on topics that are of key interest to bioMérieux. They also attend program with Mérieux Université because we wanted to give managers an additional management model In 2017, 1,332 training initiatives took place in the form of training teams organize programs in three regions: presentations by renowned speakers from outside the to follow, beyond the traditional approach. personalized team building activities. America, Europe-Middle East-Africa and Asia Pacific. Company. After six months, participants present a project The program is designed to foster dialogue between for validation by the Management Committee and implemanagers and their teams, to encourage discussion mentation of actions plans across the Company. about expectations and mutual recognition as part In 2017, 23 employees took part in the third edition of this of their day-to-day jobs, and to inspire a sense of training program. initiative. The pilot phase has been very successful, and we plan to offer this training program to 12 Program GMs & Cluster Heads technical management teams at the Craponne The GMs & Cluster Heads seminar was organized site in 2018.” * for subsidiary and cluster directors for the first time in May 2016. This training seminar is designed to communicate * ALAIN GIOVINAZZO Site Manager, Craponne (France) the Company’s strategy, address the challenges of this function, build a community of practices and gather participants’ insights and feedback about selected crossfunctional initiatives. This seminar was held again in 2017. 36 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 37 “ EMPLOYEE SKILLS TRAINING Six years ago, the Industrial Microbiology Unit of bioMérieux created the position of key account manager in Training covering numerous sectors and functions is order to better serve global clients. Today this approach has designed to improve employees’ skills in line with the become a major area for development thanks to the lasting demands of their jobs and customer needs. collaborations and partnerships that have been set up. Our success will depend on our ability to identify the challenges SALES: A new inter-regional commercial training * program for sales forces and their managers addresses sales techniques, sales force management and facing our customers in industry, today and tomorrow, and on being able to constantly improve our service offering. Logistic services are a key component, and the Supply Chain Academy ways to engage in dialogue with clinicians. training facilitated discussions on our customers’ needs to SUPPLY CHAIN: In partnership with Mérieux ensure the continuity of their supplies.” * Université and the Rennes School of Business (France), bioMérieux Supply Chain teams have developed * LAURENCE GAUTHIER Key Account Manager for customers in the pharmaceutical industry a six-module training program open to all Company employees. The Supply Chain Academy aims to develop skills, identify future talent and earn market recognition for “ the bioMérieux Supply Chain as a key player that satisfies The CQP (professional qualification certificate) training customers. for line operators gave me a new approach and a broader MARKETING: “Marketing 4 Impact” has been dimension to my job.” * launched for global marketing teams. This training PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT program revisits the position and the role of marketing, * BOHDAN RADAI especially the connection with R&D and local marketing. Production Technician, Bottle Filling and Lyophilization AND WELL-BEING AT WORK FINANCE: Sales teams learn about the financial * approach to commercial contracts. ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND CYBERSECURITY: A total of 188,625 hours of training * Training for all employees about information security aims to improve data protection with an emphasis on each were provided in 2017 individual’s responsibility and the importance of following good practices. More targeted modules cover issues specific 30% took place through e-learning, to employees in areas such as finance, for example. representing 5% of all training hours THE QUALITY OF SOCIAL DIALOGUE SCIENTIFIC TRAINING Since it was founded, bioMérieux has been highly SEVEN COMPANY-WIDE AGREEMENTS Two types of events provided an opportunity for in* committed to the quality of social dialogue and works in close concertation with social partners and employee WERE UNANIMOUSLY SIGNED BY depth discussion of scientific topics. THE LABOR UNIONS IN 2017 representatives, who are involved in numerous pivotal topics A NEW TRAINING PLATFORM for the Company. Some 15 meetings of the Central Works * Mandatory Annual Negotiations for 2017 “bioMérieux Days” were organized 4 times in 2017 * with a focus on organ transplants, tropical diseases, infertility, and antibiotic resistance in animals. In April 2017, Mérieux Université coordinated the launch of the Learning Portal, which Council are held each year, while the legal requirement is just two meetings. on compensation and working hours * Forward-looking skills management and Two Institut Mérieux Encounters were held in 2017: provides a personalized portfolio for each Over the last six years in France, nearly 70 collective professional training agreement in France * one about India and the public health challenges it faces, and the other about microbiota. employee showing available courses (face-to-face training, e-learning, mixed agreements have been signed in France with labor unions. Around 80% of these were signed unanimously, a clear *A greement to renew the European Works Council classes combining both, video training, indication of the quality and effectiveness of social dialogue. * Disability Policy Agreement and so on). *A greement on compliance and agreement The platform includes a feature to on medical expenses create communities to establish connectivity among trainers, managers, * Gender Equality Agreement Human Resources representatives *A greement to establish an additional and learners. incentive payment for 2016 38 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 39 RENEWAL OF THE EUROPEAN WORKS 10,400 employees in late 2017 COUNCIL (+6% compared to 2016) * The main purpose of the five-year European Works Council agreement signed in 2017 is to renew the Council, expand its scope, and clarify its composition and 50% of permanent contract positions filled through internal * INITIATIVES EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES TO INTEGRATE operations. The Council is made up of bioMérieux mobility* The Company agreement concerning employees with disabiINITIATIVES IN FRANCE IN 2017 management and 11 employee representatives from the lities was renewed in late 2017 for a period of four years. In legal entities of bioMérieux France, Italy, Spain and Germany and may integrate employee representatives 48% of employees are women . * France, bioMérieux allocates €257,000 per year for initiatives to hire, integrate and train people with disabilities * A recruitment day devoted to people with disabilities at all Rhône-Alpes sites from other European subsidiaries. In France, 56% of employees are and to support job retention by adapting worksta* Collaboration with sheltered-employment women tions, raising awareness and training people companies across all French sites involved in integrating employees with disabilities. AGREEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING 43% of management positions in * “ Handibio” days at the Marcy, La Balme/ Saint-Vulbas and Verniolle sites SKILLS MANAGEMENT France are held by women* et 37% *T  argeted training for Disability AND PROFESSIONAL TRAINING globally are held by women correspondents and some managers Employment rate In May 2017, in France, an agreement on forward* Financing means of disability compensation of people * looking skills management and professional training was signed for a three-year period. It applies to the * Stable compared to 2016 with disabilities and investments in production tools to support the job retention of employees 3,600 employees in France and includes measures to adapt WORK-LIFE BALANCE in 2017: with disabilities skills in line with the needs of the Company’s functions and organizational structure to further develop internal mobility, strengthen personalized support to accompany * The Work-Life Balance program introduced in 2015 was expanded in 2016 to all countries in 5.84%* the EMEA region and continues to grow. organizational changes, and ensure improved job retention * Compared with 5.86% in 2016 and more efficient career management. The teleworking policy initially implemented in France is now in place in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Russia and is being rolled out in other subsidiaries. In France, 9.65% of employees with a permanent contract worked from home in 2017. Of these, 92% were executives and 63% were women. GENDER EQUALITY 2 NEW DIRECTORS The first three-year gender equality agreement dates On May 30, 2017, the General Meeting of * back to 2003. In 2017, a new agreement was signed for three years covering the period 2018-2020. Shareholders of bioMérieux approved the appointment of 2 independent directors: Fanny Letier and Marie-Paule Kieny. In March 2017, the Women Ready for Leadership Diversity The bioMérieux Board of Directors now (WoRLD) internal network organized Diversity Week, inviting employees in France to take part in a “serious comprises 10 directors, including 4 women, game” designed to raise awareness about the impact of in compliance with the law concerning gender stereotypes. Sixteen workshops were held at French sites. equality on boards of directors and supervisory boards. In October 2017, the Montcelard Estate, near Lyon, hosted the second edition of the JUMP Forum in Lyon, in partnership with the JUMP Association. Some 230 participants attended the Forum, which was organized in cooperation with the HIGH RANKINGS FOR BIOMÉRIEUX WoRLD network on the theme of “Professional Equality: IN FRENCH AND INTERNATIONAL Beyond good intentions!” SURVEYS A report published in April 2017 by the NGO Equileap ranked bioMérieux 7th among French companies for the promotion of gender equality in the workplace. The Company was listed in 39th place out of 3,000 international companies undergoing assessment. 40 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 41 THE IMPORTANCE OF HEALTH AND QUALITY OF LIFE IN THE WORKPLACE bioMérieux pays careful attention to the health of its workforce. All employees are covered by health insurance (national, private, or both). Sites promote healthy living, for example by making sports facilities available to employees or subsidizing the cost of a gym membership, or by covering seasonal flu vaccination. Prevention of psychosocial risks Signing the Cancer Health awareness in the United States Preventing psychosocial risks among employees is and Employment Charter Our North American sites have access to a pilot * a major focus of the Human Resources policy. On November 15, 2017 at the National Cancer * healthcare and health education program. A medical center for employees and their families in St. Louis, The internal training program in Europe was enriched with * Institute (INCa, Paris), bioMérieux signed the Cancer and Employment Charter, which lists a day-long training module targeting managers on “How to Missouri, provides medical check-ups, early cancer screening prevent exhaustion and take care of your employees.” In 11 commitments to improve support for employees and medical and nutritional advice delivered by professionals, France, a health in the workplace agreement was signed who are affected by cancer and to promote health. while respecting healthcare confidentiality and privacy. with labor union representatives. Occupational accidents are reported and analyzed each month by the Management Committee, and the information A new corporate concierge service is disseminated within the Company. bioMérieux has set a “Best Place to Work” approach A concierge service opened in November 2017 target to achieve an occupational accident rate of less In late 2016, the EMEA “Best Place to Work” program * at the Marcy l’Étoile and Craponne sites in France. than or equal to 1.6 by 2020. * was launched to drive employee engagement, development and motivation. Financed by bioMérieux, it provides practical solutions for employees at preferential rates for services such as dry cleaning, shoe repair, vehicle maintenance, Complementary health insurance and A Pulse Survey was conducted across all commercial administrative assistance, mailing and postage, public subsidiaries in the EMEA region to measure employee transportation, home-based help, etc. pension agreement engagement and develop actions plans for 2018. The Discussions were held to determine compliance participation rate was strong (74%) and the survey results * conditions for complementary health insurance and pension coverage as of January 1st, 2018, with the introhighlighted several key findings. For instance, 91% of employees stated that they work in a trusting relationship duction of a “responsible contract,” which represents an with their manager. important issue for the 3,600 employees of bioMérieux in Based on suggestions from employees, in 2017 initiatives France since it concerns healthcare coverage and purchasing were rolled out over the course of the year on a wide range power. of topics: wellbeing, working conditions, celebrations and The agreement improves the health expenses guarantee events, communication, career and professional development, and reduces copayments. and corporate social responsibility. 42 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 43 3. COMMITTED TO RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT In 2016, bioMérieux introduced Vision 2020, the policy on which we base our commitment to reach ambitious objectives to protect the environment and ensure workplace health and safety at all sites where we operate. Vision 2020 is aligned with the Company’s strategy, and monitored and managed by a global Health, Safety and Environment Committee. REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF MANUFACTURING DURING THE LIFE CYCLE OBJECTIVES* 20% reduction in water consumption UPDATE OF VISION 2020 OBJECTIVES 20% reduction IN 2017 in energy consumption The product life cycle covers the initial product idea during research and development through to its decline and the management of the end-of-life phase. For * For several years now, the Company has applied an eco-design approach to take on board the environmental aspects of the product life cycle during the 25% reduction in waste * Following 2016 and 2017 results that exceeded expectations, we raised our energy consumption and waste reduction 30% reduction bioMérieux, it is extremely important to limit the environmental impact of the Company’s activities. development processes. This approach prescribes restraint in the use of materials in a broad sense to manufacture our diagnostic systems. objectives. Additionally, we will begin assessing reductions in water consumption. in the frequency of lost-time accidents In 2017, two pilot programs of the in-house methodology were organized for two ongoing developments before applying this methodology to all new projects. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification of all industrial sites Adjustments made during product development have a very practical impact. “Designing a product that will require less refrigeration during storage will have a significant impact Implementation of an on reducing energy consumption during its life cycle,” said energy management system Bertrand Gibert, Head of Corporate HSE (Health Safety Environment). at the main French sites * In comparison to 2015 44 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 45 CONNECTING OUR SYSTEMS WITH VILINK® The Environment LATE 2017 LATE 2018 LATE 2019 ISO 14001 42% 57% 90% CERTIFICATIONS * 3 commercial subsidiaries l 7 bio-industrial sites (3 with the new ISO 14001:2015) * By late January 2018 Active involvement at our sites Benefits for customers In 2017, the sites of Tres Cantos (Spain) and La Balme bioMérieux has introduced an ambitious program Occupational * (France) both received ISO 14001:2015 certification. “This new standard encourages us to take into account the * to provide remote maintenance of our instruments, which considerably reduces travel by technicians who Health & Safety environmental impact during the entire life cycle of our provide remote assistance for some maintenance operations, products, and not just during production processes,” added customer services and IT updates of systems. OHSAS 18001 Bertrand Gibert. Using the VILINK® application, Company teams are working CERTIFICATIONS * Our distribution centers also follow this approach. For to ensure connectivity for 90% of identified priority systems* 7 bio-industrial sites example, thanks to a program set up at the international by late 2019. distribution center in Saint-Vulbas (France), in 2017 energy consumption levels were maintained at 2007 levels, even though during the same period the site’s sales activity Studying the impact of logistics * By late January 2018 increased by 18%. Within the scope of the Vision 2020 HSE objectives * regarding logistics, pilot initiatives with Company Supply Chain joins the effort suppliers were organized in 2017 and are planned in 2018 to assess alternative means of transportation, track Our indicators* Transporting products to our customers is another emissions and monitor operational effectiveness along the * area where it is possible to limit environmental impact logistics chain. WATER CONSUMPTION: during the product life cycle. The Company operates in more than 150 countries through 43 subsidiaries and CONSTANT a network of distributors, meaning that reagents, (Compared to 2016) instruments and spare parts must be delivered to a multil tude of destinations. “In 2017, we began using maritime transportation instead of air transportation for certain ENERGY CONSUMPTION: shipments,” said Grégory Debuchy, Supply Chain VicePresident. “This approach, which is designed to reduce our 6% REDUCTION carbon footprint, has been adopted for shipments from (Compared to 2016) France to China, India and the United States and Australia.” Transportation by sea represented 13% of all shipments, compared to 10% in late 2016.” * VITEK® 2, VITEK® MS, MYLA®, VIDAS® 3, BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO®, VIGIGUARD®, OBSERVA® * In relation to sales 46 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 47 4. COMMITTED TO ETHICS IN BUSINESS As an international industrial firm, bioMérieux is exposed to risks, some of them directly connected to our business activity. We implement internal rules and procedures to protect the Company and ensure employees have the necessary tools to anticipate and manage such risks. TARGETED TRAINING, A PRIORITY A GLOBAL CAMPAIGN TO PROMOTE THE CODE OF Training is one of the primary ways to build awareness * among all employees about international rules and in-house procedures to promote respect for ethics and CONDUCT A worldwide training and awareness compliance. campaign was organized to support A mandatory annual training program is organized for all the new edition of the bioMérieux employees, in addition to modules specific to their function Global Code of Conduct. and risk exposure. Within the first few months of joining It consisted of: the Company, new hires receive training on the Global • Training on content for all employees; Code of Conduct, the Corruption Prevention Manual and the conflicts of interest policy. Each year, employees must • Publishing the Code on the bioMérieux validate a certificate of compliance with the rules of the corporate website and intranet; 4 PRIORITY AREAS Code of Conduct. • Issuing reminders about the Code In 2017, more than 15,000 on-line training modules were during Ethics & Compliance training. assigned to employees across all subsidiaries. 2017 PRIORITIES Preventing corruption PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA AN ETHICS HOTLINE FOR Securing the distribution * Particular attention was focused on preparing the new regulation on the protection of patient data at the European network AND PATIENT DATA ALL SUBSIDIARIES Any employee who has an ethics question bioMérieux has launched a compliance program to level. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took effect on May 25, 2018, when the Preventing conflicts * prepare for the new regulations concerning the protection of personal data, especially the European General or concern may contact their regional Compliance Officer. In addition, a local new Sapin II Law will become enforceable and existing processes will be strengthened. of interest Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It has also set up a network of personal data privacy repretelephone alert system allows employees to speak with someone in the local language, with healthcare professionals sentatives covering all Company sites and subsidiaries and and a dedicated website is available to all the global functions. The network serves as the interface employees worldwide to report situations Applying export regulations between the Global Data Privacy Officer and the business involving an alert. The system was entities, particularly to anticipate compliance with the GDPR. introduced in France in 2014 and has Every employee accessing personal data will be trained since been rolled out in the 43 countries and will adhere to the principles of the regulation. where bioMérieux operates. 48 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 49 APPENDIX THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES RELATED TO PRINCIPLES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS THE ENVIRONMENT bioMérieux and its employees are committed bioMérieux and its employees are committed to 1 to support and respect the protection of inter7 support a precautionary approach to environnationally proclaimed human rights mental challenges bioMérieux and its employees are committed bioMérieux and its employees are committed to 2 to make sure they are not complicit in human 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environrights abuses mental responsibility bioMérieux and its employees are committed to 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies PRINCIPLES RELATED TO LABOR bioMérieux and its employees are committed to 3 uphold the freedom of association and recognize the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE RELATED TO ANTI-CORRUPTION bioMérieux and its employees are committed 4 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of bioMérieux and its employees are committed to forced and compulsory labor 10 work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery bioMérieux and its employees are committed 5 to contribute to the abolition of child labor bioMérieux and its employees are committed 6 to contribute to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 50 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 51 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS * The Audit Committee It is comprised of Mrs Agnès Lemarchand, Mr Philippe Archinard and Mr Harold Boël, its chairman. The Committee met 7 times in 2017. * The Human Resources, Nominations and Compensation Committee It is comprised of Mrs Marie-Hélène Habert, Mr Jean-Luc Belingard and Mrs Fanny Letier, its chairman. The Committee met 2 times in 2017. * The Strategy Committee The Committee, created in 2017, is comprised of Mrs Marie-Paule Kieny, Mr Michele Palladino, Mr Philippe Gillet and Mr Jean-Luc Belingard, its chairman. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR MANAGEMENT As of December 15, 2017, the Board is chaired by Alexandre Mérieux. * MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Committee is responsible for implementing the Company’s strategy decided by the Board of Directors. It meets once every three months. The Board of Directors, which met 6 times over the course of 2017, is comprised of 10 members: Since March 2018, it is comprised of: * Alexandre Mérieux • Chairman and CEO, bioMérieux * Philippe Archinard • Chairman and CEO, Transgene *A  lexandre Mérieux • Chairman and CEO * Jean-Luc Belingard • Vice President, Institut Mérieux, in charge of strategy *M  ichel Baguenault • Executive Vice President, and institutional relations Human Resources and Communications and Company Secretary * Harold Boël • CEO, Sofina (Belgium) *G  uillaume Bouhours • Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer * Philippe Gillet • Chief Scientific Officer, SICPA SA (Switzerland) and *P  ierre Boulud • Executive Vice President, ASPAC Region, Ph.D of Earth and Planet Sciences, Portfolio & Strategic Planning École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (Switzerland) *N  icolas Cartier • Executive Vice President, Industrial Microbiology Unit * Marie-Hélène Habert • Director of Communication and Patronage, Dassault Group *P  ierre Charbonnier • Executive Vice President, Global Quality, * Marie-Paule Kieny • Research Director, INSERM; Manufacturing & Supply Chain formerly, Assistant Director General, World Health Organization *F  rançois Lacoste • Executive Vice President, Clinical Unit * Agnès Lemarchand • Administrator, various companies * Mark Miller • Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer * Fanny Letier • Executive Director Directorate SME own funds & Coordination *Y  asha Mitrotti • Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East, Africa Region accompaniment, BPI France & Global Commercial Performance * Michele Palladino * Alain Pluquet • Executive Vice President, Chief Data Officer * Randy Rasmussen • Executive Vice President, Molecular Biology * Kirk Ririe • Executive Vice President, Chief Innovation Officer In 2017, Alain Mérieux, Chairman and CEO of Institut Mérieux, has been appointed * Stefan Willemsen • Executive Vice President, Americas Region Founding President of bioMérieux. 52 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 53 SALES BREAKDOWN OF SALES R&D EXPENSES (in millions of euros) by application (in millions of euros) 2,300 2,288 320 2,200 2% 304 2,100 2,103 18% OTHER LINES 300 2,000 1,965 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS 280 272 1,900 41% 260 MICROBIOLOGY 239 KEY 1,800 240 1,700 220 1,600 19% 200 1,500 MOLECULAR BIOLOGY 180 1,400 160 1,300 140 FIGURES 1,200 1,100 20% 120 IMMUNOASSAYS 1,000 100 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Sales amounted to €2,288 million in 2017, versus €2,103 million in Approximately 60% of sales were generated in clinical and industrial Continuing its innovation efforts, the Group invested €304 million 2016, an increase of 10.2% at constant exchange rates and scope of microbiology, two areas where bioMérieux is the world leader. in research and development in 2017, or 13.3% of sales. This consolidation. In 2017, sales growth in molecular biology (19% of sales in 2017 increase reflects the intensification of activities associated with compared to 15% in 2016) was driven by the success of the the BIOFIRE FILMARRAY® line. BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line. CONTRIBUTIVE OPERATING INCOME Supported by the commercial strength of the VITEK® and BACT/ALERT® BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS* lines, microbiology represented 41% of revenue, up by 6.7%. (in millions of euros) WORKFORCE AS AT DECEMBER 31** 340 335 10,400 320 BREAKDOWN OF SALES 10,500 300 298 by geographical region 10,000 9,800 280 9,500 9,375 260 260 9,000 240 17% 8,500 ASIA PACIFIC 8,000 220 39% 7,500 200 EMEA* 180 7,000 160 6,500 140 44% 6,000 AMERICAS 5,500 120 100 5,000 2015 2016 2017 4,500 2015 2016 2017 In keeping with the set target, the contributive operating income before non-recurring items was driven by the organic growth in The Group’s growth was chiefly driven by strong sales in the Americas Changes in the workforce in 2017 reflect the strengthening of sales. It was up by 12.4% compared to 2016, to reach €335 million, region (representing 44% of sales in 2017 compared to 42% in BioFire Diagnostics’ industrial and commercial teams to support or 14.6% of sales. 2016), especially in the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line. the growth of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line. * Contributive operating income before non-recurring items corresponds to * Europe, Middle East, Africa. ** Full-time equivalent. operating income before non-recurring BioFire acquisition and integration costs and before accounting entries relating to the company’s purchase price allocation. NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD FREE CASH FLOW** INVESTMENTS CHANGES IN THE FINANCIAL POSITION (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) 250 238 170 164 240 2,000 1,621 1,737 220 230 58 1,800 1,503 150 200 210 1,600 180 44 190 179 130 160 51 1,400 170 140 1,200 150 110 120 102 1,000 130 100 800 110 90 85 80 157 178 130 110 600 60 90 CAPITAL EQUITY 400 70 EXPENDITURE 40 (IAS19R SINCE 2011) 70 200 20 50 50 OF WHICH PLACED INSTRUMENTS OF WHICH BORROWINGS 0 219 275 156 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Net income of consolidated companies for the year amounted to Free cash flow generation amounted to €164 million in 2017, versus The capital expenditures made over the year amounted to €181 million, Net debt stood at €156 million at the end of the year, representing €238 million, up by 33% compared to 2016. It represented 10.4% €85 million in 2016 and benefited from the increase of the the results of the industrial investment strategy intended mainly to only 9% of equity. This leaves a high degree of flexibility to promote of sales. contributive operating income before non-recurring items while increase capacity and productivity of production facilities. The total the Group’s strategic ambitions. capital expenditures decreased. capital expenditures for the year represented 8% of sales. ** Cash flow before acquisitions of companies, divested operations and dividends. 54 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 55 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS (In € millions) 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 FINANCIAL Intangible assets 430.7 492.6 Goodwill 442.7 470.6 Property, plant and equipment 711.4 734.5 Non-current financial assets 57.9 36.9 TABLES Investments in equity-accounted companies 0.1 0.5 Other non-current assets 14.1 18.0 Deferred tax assets 51.6 92.8 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,708.5 1,845.8 Inventories and work-in-progress 380.3 404.4 Trade receivables 460.1 465.8 Other operating receivables 75.1 79.8 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Current tax receivables 36.1 25.7 Non-operating receivables 15.7 28.8 In € millions 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Cash and cash equivalents 312.1 178.6 SALES 2,288.2 2,103.2 CURRENT ASSETS 1,279.4 1,183.0 Cost of sales -1,076.4 -1,002.5 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 2.1 0.0 GROSS PROFIT 1,211.8 1,100.7 TOTAL ASSETS 2,990.0 3,028.8 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 31.2 38.5 Selling and marketing expenses -447.5 -402.1 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (In € millions) 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 General and administrative expenses -156.4 -167.4 Share capital 12.0 12.0 Research and development expenses -304.4 -271.9 Additional paid-in capital and reserves 1,487.5 1,428.0 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES -908.3 -841.4 Attributable net income for the period 238.1 179.1 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT 1,737.6 1,619.1 CONTRIBUTIVE OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 334.7 297.8 BioFire acquisition fees and amortization expense (a) -18.2 -25.2 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS -0.9 2.2 OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 316.5 272.6 TOTAL EQUITY 1,736.7 1,621.4 Other non-recurring income and expenses from operations, net -1.6 9.9 Long-term borrowings and debt 391.1 365.4 Deferred tax liabilities 103.8 167.3 OPERATING INCOME 314.9 282.5 Provisions 106.7 115.0 Cost of net debt -16.2 -17.6 Other financial income and expenses, net -6.2 -5.6 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 601.5 647.6 Income tax -54.5 -79.8 Short-term borrowings and debt 76.9 87.9 Share in earnings (losses) of equity-accounted companies -0.4 -0.2 Provisions 34.1 36.8 NET INCOME OF CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 237.6 179.2 Trade payables 161.3 175.6 Attributable to non-controlling interests -0.6 0.1 Other operating payables 300.7 324.2 Current tax payables 24.2 37.2 ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT 238.1 179.1 Non-operating payables 54.6 98.2 Basic earnings per share € 2.02 € 4.55 (b) CURRENT LIABILITIES 651.8 759.8 Diluted earnings per share € 2.02 € 4.55 (b) LIABILITIES RELATED TO ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0.0 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,990.0 3,028.8 (a) corresponds to the acquisition and integration costs of BioFire and accounting entries relating to the company’s purchase price allocation (b) based on the number of shares at the period-end: 39,453,740 shares. 56 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 57 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE In € millions 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE IN 2017 * 80 Net income of consolidated companies 237.5 179.2 Share in earnings (losses) of equity-accounted companies 0.4 0.2 75 Cost of net debt 16.2 17.6 Other financial income and expenses, net 6.2 5.6 70 Income tax expense 54.5 79.8 Net additions to depreciation and amortization of operating items long-term provisions 140.5 143.1 65 Non-recurring income and expenses, BioFire acquisition fees and amortization expense 19.9 15.3 60 EBITDA (before non-recurring items) 475.2 440.9 Other non-recurring income and expenses from operations (excluding net additions to 55 -1.2 0.0 non-recurring provisions and capital gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets) Other financial income and expenses, net -6.1 -6.4 50 (excluding provisions and disposals of non-current financial assets) Net additions to operating provisions for contingencies and losses 5.6 12.3 45 Changes in fair value of financial instruments 2.3 -1.5 bioMérieux 57% Share-based payment 7.5 3.5 40 CAC40 9% Elimination of other non-cash/non-operating income and expenses 8.1 7.9 35 SBF120 10% Change in inventories -4.3 -41.1 EURO STOXX® Healthcare Index 0% Change in trade receivables -25.6 -10.0 30 Change in trade payables -4.1 -3.4 January 17 February 17 March 17 April 17 May 17 June 17 July 17 August 17 September 17 October 17 Change in other operating working capital -3.8 21.8 November 17 December 17 Change in operating working capital (a) -37.8 -32.7 * Indexes rebased on bioMérieux’s stock price as at 31/12/2016 (€47.30) Other non-operating working capital 1.5 -3.3 BREAKDOWN OF CAPITAL THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE Change in non-current non-financial assets and liabilities 2.0 4.3 as at December 31, 2017 Listed on July 6, 2004, the bioMérieux share is part of the following Change in working capital -34.3 -31.7 indexes: CAC Mid 60®, SBF 120®, CAC Mid & Small®, CAC All-tradable® Income tax paid -91.5 -81.5 35% and CAC All-Share®. In addition, bioMérieux was included in new indices during 2017, specifically MSCI France Index and STOXX® Europe 600. NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 357.5 335.6 FLOATING & OWN SHARES 59% The Company is listed on the compartment “A” of Eurolist and is eligible for the Deferred Settlement Service (SRD). Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -183.5 -233.0 INSTITUT MÉRIEUX Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7.9 5.3 For a number of years, extra-financial rating agencies have been evaluating the CSR performance of bioMérieux and have included it Purchases/proceeds from disposals of non-current financial assets, net Impact of changes in Group structure -14.1 9.3 8.1 -37.6 <1% EMPLOYEES in their SRI indices (Socially Responsible Investments), such as the Ethibel Forum (Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe) which draws on the work of the ratings agency VIGEO, or FTSE Russell NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -180.4 -257.2 (FTSE4Good Index). This year, bioMérieux was included in new indices Cash capital increase 0.0 0.0 and obtained new labels (Vigeo Eiris Eurozone 120, EcoVadis, Purchases and sales of treasury shares -0.9 -14.1 GROUPE INDUSTRIEL 5% OEKOM Research, CDP). On September 19, 2017, bioMérieux carried out a 1 for 3 stock split, Dividends paid to owners -39.4 -39.5 MARCEL DASSAULT dividing the par value per share by 3, thereby increasing the number Cost of net debt -16.2 -17.6 of shares from 39,453,740 to 118,361,220. The information below is Change in committed debt -0.6 18.6 provided on a comparable basis and includes the number of shares 2018 CALENDAR OF EVENTS following the stock split. Change in ownership interest not resulting in a change in control -11.5 0.0 January 23, 2018 * 2017 Q4 business review At December 31, 2017, the closing price for the bioMérieux share was NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -68.7 -52.5 €74.69 (€47.30 at December 31, 2016) and the Company’s market February 28, 2018 * 2017 financial results capitalization was €8.8 billion. In 2017, 28,750,521 of the Company’s NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 108.4 25.9 April 19, 2018 * 2018 Q1 business review shares were traded on Euronext (31,554,284 in 2016). May 17, 2018 * General Shareholders’ meeting NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 146.7 136.7 July 19, 2018 * 2018 Q2 business review INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT Impact of changes in exchange rates on net cash and cash equivalents 5.4 -15.9 September 5, 2018 * 2018 first-half results Sylvain Morgeau NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 260.4 146.7 October 18, 2018 * 2018 Q3 business review Phone: +33 (0)4 78 87 22 37 Email: investor.relations@biomerieux.com The Reference Document approved by the AMF is available upon request (a) Including additions to and reversals of short-term provisions or on our Web site: www.biomerieux-finance.com 58 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 59 GLOSSARY Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing n Determines the susceptibility Microbiology n The study of microorganisms. In the field of of a bacterium in the presence of antibiotics and classifies it as in vitro diagnostics: culturing biological, food and pharmaceutical susceptible, resistant or intermediate. samples in growth medium allows any bacteria that may be present to multiply. The bacteria are subsequently identified and Biomarker n Any indicator (nucleic acids, enzymes, metabolites their susceptibility to antitiotics tested in certain cases. and other types of molecules: histamines, hormones, proteins, etc.) present in or excreted by the body as a biological response Molecular Biology n Technique that can detect a bacterium, virus, to a disease. yeast, parasite or a biomarker through the presence of DNA or RNA genetic sequences in a sample. Blood culture n Laboratory analysis used to detect bloodstream infections, carried out by taking a sample of venous blood, which Pathogen n A microbe that causes or has the potential to cause is then cultured to reveal the presence or absence of pathogenic an infectious disease. microbes. PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) n Molecular biology technology Dengue n Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by the Aedes for in vitro amplification of genetic sequences, used to copy known mosquito that causes flu-like symptoms. A person with dengue DNA or RNA sequences in large quantities (by an order of magnitude may develop life-threatening complications. of a billion) from an initially small quantity. This technology is particularly useful for detecting the presence of viruses. DNA Sequencing n Method used to determine the order of the nucleotide bases for a given DNA fragment. PCT (Procalcitonin) n An early and specific host marker of a bacterial infection, PCT is useful to adapt antimicrobial prescriptions. Ebola n The Ebola virus causes severe illness that is often fatal in humans. The virus is initially transmitted to people from wild Pertussis (Whooping cough) n Pertussis is a highly contagious animals and then spreads from person to person. Between disease of the respiratory tract caused by Bordetella pertussis, December 2013 and March 2016, the largest epidemic of Ebola and less commonly by Bordetella parapertussis, which causes virus disease ever observed broke out in West Africa (essentially coughing spells. It is an airborne infection spread by direct contact Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia), causing 11,300 deaths among with infected individuals. The disease may become serious in the 28,600 cases reported. pregnant women, the elderly, and infants under six months of age. Between 40 and 60 million cases of whooping cough are reported Healthcare-Associated Infection (HAI) n HAIs are infections worldwide each year, causing 300,000 deaths, primarily in occurring in a patient during the process of care in a hospital developing countries. (or other healthcare facility) that were not present at the time of admission and are directly related to the care received. Sepsis n A serious systemic infection characterized by the presence 05-18 • 9314926 022 GB 0 • This document and / of bacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites in the blood and combined Immunoassay n Diagnostic test based on an antigen/antibody or pictures are not legally binding; modifications by with an inflammatory immune-reaction (host response) that can reaction, enabling the detection of infectious agents (bacteria, bioMérieux can be made without prior notice • result in the rapid deterioration of the patient’s general condition viruses, parasites) and pathogen markers. BIOMERIEUX, the blue logo, ARGENE, BACT/ALERT, leading to possible organ failure. BIOFIRE, BioNumerics, CHROMID, DIAGNOSTICS In vitro diagnostics n Analysis of biological samples (urine, IS POWER, ETEST, FILMARRAY, MYLA, Syndromic approach n Medical approach based on analyzing a blood, etc.) performed outside the human body. NEPHROCHECK, PIONEERING DIAGNOSTICS, syndrome (i.e., a set of symptoms and/or clinical signs) that uses a RAPIDEC, R-GENE, SCANRDI, VIDAS, VIRTUO and Malaria n Malaria is a disease caused by Plasmodium parasites. single test to identify the disease-causing organism(s) responsible for VITEK are used, pending and/or registered According to the WHO, it continues to cause around 450,000 deaths this syndrome, whether they are viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites. trademarks belonging to bioMérieux S.A., to one of each year worldwide. Around 40% of the global population is its subsidiaries or companies • B·R·A·H·M·S PCT is Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) n VTE is a condition that exposed to the disease. Resistance to antimalarial medicines the property of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and its encompasses deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and its immediate makes the situation even more alarming. To date a vaccine has subsidiaries • SBF 120 is the property of life-threatening risk, pulmonary embolism (PE). VTE is the EURONEXT PARIS SA • WASP and WASPLab are the not been developed. consequence of the formation of a blood clot in the deep veins property of COPAN Italia • Any other name or Mass spectrometry n Technique used to identify a molecule and that travels in the circulation and risks lodging in the lungs. trademark mentioned in this document is the determine its chemical structure by analyzing the mass and the property of its respective owner. charge of its ions. Zika virus n The Zika virus is transmitted by the bite of an infected Aedes mosquito. It recently caused an epidemic affecting several Photos: N. Bouchut, F. Dubray, C. Ganet, J.P. Mesguen, P. Tournaire, bioMérieux, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia, and currently it is Fondation Mérieux, GettyImages, iStock. n Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was probably spreading worldwide. Often asymptomatic, the disease first identified in September 2012 in Saudi Arabia and is responsible may present as a moderate infection similar to dengue. Symptoms Sculpture : “Le Cavalier” from Claude Quiesse for the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). In early 2018, may include fever, muscle and joint pain, conjunctivitis, fatigue bioMérieux S.A. 673 620 399 RCS Lyon cases of MERS had been reported in 27 countries. Among people and headache. Skin rash is a characteristic feature of Zika. The Printed in France on recycled paper affected by the disease, symptoms include fever, coughing and potentially serious impact of the virus is connected to its ability théra • RCS Lyon B 398 160 242 shortness of breath, as well as gastrointestinal symptoms in some to cause neurological complications and severe malformations, cases. Approximately 35% of reported patients with MERS-CoV in particular neurological malformations in the fetus. infection have died, according to the WHO. 60 • bioMérieux ALGERIA • bioMérieux GERMANY • bioMérieux SERBIA • bioMérieux ARGENTINA • bioMérieux GREECE • bioMérieux SINGAPORE • bioMérieux AUSTRALIA • bioMérieux HUNGARY • bioMérieux SOUTH AFRICA • bioMérieux AUSTRIA • bioMérieux INDIA • bioMérieux SPAIN • bioMérieux BELGIUM • bioMérieux ITALY • bioMérieux SWEDEN • bioMérieux BRAZIL • bioMérieux JAPAN • bioMérieux SWITZERLAND • bioMérieux CANADA • bioMérieux KENYA • bioMérieux THAILAND • bioMérieux CHILE • bioMérieux KOREA • bioMérieux THE NETHERLANDS • bioMérieux CHINA • bioMérieux MALAYSIA • bioMérieux TURKEY • bioMérieux COLOMBIA • bioMérieux MEXICO • bioMérieux UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • bioMérieux CZECH REPUBLIC • bioMérieux NORWAY • bioMérieux UNITED KINGDOM • bioMérieux DENMARK • bioMérieux POLAND • bioMérieux USA • bioMérieux FINLAND • bioMérieux PORTUGAL • bioMérieux WEST AFRICA • bioMérieux FRANCE • bioMérieux RUSSIA • bioMérieux VIETNAM bioMérieux S.A. • 69280 Marcy l’Étoile • France • Tel.: + 33 (0)4 78 87 20 00 • Fax: +33 (0)4 78 87 20 90 www.biomerieux.com
