United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Not to be distributed without permission. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Cat Hodgson Corporate Responsibility Manager Euromonitor International 60-61 Britton Street London UK EC1M 5UX CONNECT WITH US © 2018 Euromonitor International FOUNDER’S STATEMENT Continued support for the Global Compact Euromonitor International has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since May 2012 and we remain fully committed to supporting and upholding all of the 10 principles. We take our responsibilities towards society and the environment seriously and we are pleased to be able to demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement in this Communication on Progress. During 2016 we developed a new strategy for our corporate social responsibility programme which aligns a large part of our community giving with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We look forward to continue to work with many existing and new charitable partners in the forthcoming year and reporting on their impact and relation to the Sustainable Development Goals in our Communication on Progress next year. We’ve also been looking at how we can strengthen and reinforce the culture of success within our sales division and have introduced a new strategy to help staff build a career which is both challenging and rewarding. More information on this and other projects can be found later in the report. On behalf of Euromonitor’s Chief Executive, Board of Directors and employees around the world, I am delighted to present this report which we will be sharing with all of our stakeholders over the coming months. ROBERT SENIOR Founder May 2018 iv © Euromonitor International ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL Euromonitor International is the world’s leading provider of global business intelligence and strategic market analysis. We have more than 40 years’ experience publishing international market reports, business reference books and online databases on consumer markets. We deliver market research solutions to support strategic planning for today’s increasingly international business environment. Our research offers in-depth market analysis on consumer goods and service industries worldwide, as well as economic, demographic and socio-economic data and We are a successful, growing and insight on countries and consumers. profitable business. Meanwhile the gap between the haves and Euromonitor International is headquartered have not’s widens. We will invest in London, with regional offices in Bangalore, 1% of turnover in good causes. Cape Town, Chicago, Dubai, Hong Kong, This translates to £1m a year and Santiago, São Paulo, Shanghai, Seoul, Sydney, growing in line with our company’s Singapore, Tokyo and Vilnius. We have a future success. Tim Kitchin network of over 800 analysts worldwide. Chief Executive Leadership ROBERT SENIOR EMMA BLANEY BRAD BORGMAN LISA TOMLINSON Founder Global HR Director Chief Operating VP Sales Officer TREVOR FENWICK LINDA WAKE SARAH HUNTER ANTHONY IRWIN Executive Chairman Chief Financial CSR Director VP Research Officer TIM KITCHIN HELENA NIMMO ANDY CARTER MIKE JOZWIK Chief Executive Chief Technology VP Sales VP Consulting Officer © Euromonitor International 1 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Euromonitor International supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The scope is broad but includes: •• Non-discrimination against, and behaviour towards, vulnerable groups •• Civil and political rights •• Economic, social and cultural rights •• Fundamental principles and rights at work We recognise there are global differences in accepted practices with regards to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. However, we ensure we work to the highest standards across all regions rather than just meeting local requirements. We are committed to the well-being of our employees, in-country analysts and contractors, creating safe, positive and professional work places. 2 © Euromonitor International HUMA N RIG HTS Implementation We have extensive global policies regarding equal opportunities, flexible working, parental leave, work-life balance and anti-harassment and bullying amongst others. All employees are briefed at induction and every policy is available on the company’s intranet. As members of Sedex we adhere to the Ethical Trading Initiative’s base code, upholding the 9 principles which include fair treatment of workers. We believe that an important part of upholding and promoting human rights is the commitment a business makes to its local communities. From April 2017 we have committed 1% of our turnover to our corporate social responsibility spend, an amount which will equate to roughly £1 million. As signatories of the UN Global Compact we have chosen to align a major part of our community investment programme with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and carefully measure how each of our charity partnerships contribute to the success of the goals. We are in the process of implementing a more thorough procurement policy in our supply chain. In turn, we are subject to scrutiny from our own clients. This year we underwent a Smeta audit for a client. As well as continued Sedex membership we have also recently joined EcoVadis and received a bronze accreditation. Based on the outcomes of our Smeta audit and EcoVadis report we will look to see areas in which we can improve in the future. We also encourage a healthy working environment for staff in all of our offices and have a range of activities to support this including subsidised gym memberships, in-office classes, fruit deliveries, and social activities. Each year we run a Health & Wellness week in all of our global offices to encourage staff to look after their mind and body and ensure they have a healthy work-life balance. Measurement Management of Euromonitor International offices is regularly reviewed by the Leadership Board to ensure all policies are being implemented correctly. Euromonitor International is compliant with all legal employment requirements in every respect, and in many cases, exceeds minimum requirements. In the past year Euromonitor International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. The cr Manager works with local cr Committees and hr contacts to implement Health & Wellness initiatives in each office, including the annual Health & Wellness week. © Euromonitor International 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment At Euromonitor International we respect and value the individuality and diversity that all our employees bring to the company. It is our policy to provide employment, training, promotion, pay, benefits and other conditions of employment without regard to race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status, age and / or disability. We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our employees, and we actively encourage and support them in the development of relevant skills to progress their careers. Euromonitor International complies fully with all aspects of labour law in all countries in which it operates. Where our standards exceed those of local legislation, we apply our own policies. 4 © Euromonitor International LA B O UR Implementation Euromonitor International has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. Staff members are encouraged to share any matters of concern with us without fear, in the knowledge that they will be taken seriously and that the matters will be investigated properly. The procedure for raising such concerns is outlined in our Whistleblowing Policy. We remain a member of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) sharing information with our clients on four key areas: labour standards, health & safety, the environment and business ethics. As part of our Sedex membership we continue to ensure staff are aware of the Ethical Trading Initiative and that we are always upholding its 9 key areas. A core value of Euromonitor is that the business must empower people as much as possible. We aim to foster a culture where is it normal for people to push beyond their comfort zones to be the best they can be. In order for this to happen we must ensure as a business that we have the necessary support and systems in place. In the last year we have provided people with the opportunity to try other roles in the company via secondments, we have improved our internal mentoring programme, provided training to managers on coaching and people development and have provided clear guidelines for career progression. We have developed a new career strategy for our sales division encouraging staff members to develop additional areas of focus and responsibility. Reinforcing a culture that creates more successful, motivated long serving staff is good for our staff members, our company and our clients. As of this year we have also included csr and volunteering in everyone’s performance reviews, to recognise the hard work and commitment given by staff members who are actively involved, and to encourage other staff members to consider developing their skills through volunteering activities. Access to employment continues to be a core focus of much of our csr work across The mock interview was excellent the globe, and particularly in London where — very helpful and encouraging. most of our staff are based. We continue Parent House participant to offer cv and Interview skill workshops to unemployed local people through our charity partners, The Parent House, hosting successful workshops 3 times per year. © Euromonitor International 5 L ABO U R We also have programmes with local students to support them with their employability The scheme has been so valuable skills and deepen their understanding of the for the school. In particular working world. In London we have mentoring from my side it is so great that relationships with a secondary school and a the Nurture class with more special educational needs school, and we also specific needs has been able to have a work experience programme in place. access and enjoy the Mentoring programme. It is so good to In Chicago we continue to support job see each student, with complex seekers from migrant communities through needs and difficulties with our partnership with Upwardly Global. communication, working so positively with their individual A number of the charities who we are Mentor. Great relationships supporting through our Regional Partners have built up between Mentors programme also directly support beneficiaries and students and important into employment. For example, The Refugee skills are being taught in each Empowerment and Support Taskforce run the session and by experiencing the Tabita Sewing Group — a women’s sewing workplace environment, meeting collective that supports refugees with training requirements to arrive on time and employment. In Sydney our partnership and look smart and behave with Two Good supports women who have appropriately at all times. been victims of domestic violence into Teacher, Samuel Rhodes employment through catering courses. SEN School Measurement Euromonitor International’s hr team reviews the company’s responsibilities towards labour rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. We continue to monitor all health and safety incidents, recruitment statistics and sickness records to ensure compliance with our policies. The cr Manager works with all community partners to evaluate the impact of our support. Reports are published on the Corporate Social Responsibility blog on our global website. 6 © Euromonitor International ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Although Euromonitor International’s direct impact on the environment is relatively small, we are keen to ensure continued commitment to our internal policies and controls. We take our responsibility in supporting initiatives that prevent and manage environmental risk very seriously. Specifically, we are committed to: •• Conserving natural resources and reduce the environmental burden of waste generation •• Reducing the consumption of energy through building assessment and control, and by encouraging employee awareness, individual action and proactive involvement •• Reducing the level of air travel and balance the impact of unavoidable flights We have a Carbon Offsetting programme with two charities (Save the Orangutan and The World Land Trust) and offset the carbon emitted by unavoidable business flights through this programme. In London we will also be offsetting the energy consumption in our offices through the World Land Trust and have moved over to a green energy supplier as of February 2018. © Euromonitor International 7 E NV I RO N M EN T Implementation Staff engagement continues to be key to our work around environmental responsibility. Each year the company hosts a global Green Week that is organised by local csr Committees in each office. Activities during the week include: •• Sending out reminders to staff about switching off lights / screens etc. and our recycling initiatives •• Rewarding good environmental behaviour through prizes and competitions •• Encouraging green commuting •• Recycling incentives (e.g. in Chicago there were discounts at a local café for staff who had re-usable cups) Our waste and recycling systems globally are continually reviewed and a few system was recently put in place in our Singapore office. We are in the process of having more thorough tracking of our recycling and waste consumption but currently in our London office approximately 70% of waste is recycled. We also have opportunities for staff to properly recycle electrical waste. To minimise our own electrical waste, staff are allowed to purchase old laptops — giving the payment as a donation to the charity of their choosing. Energy reduction is a key element of our environmental management programme, with a particular focus on employee behaviour and building efficiency and a target to reduce energy consumption globally by 5% over the past 5 years. Our flight data is analysed on a monthly basis for our Carbon Offsetting programme, with our energy offsetting in London being done using annual energy data. Measurement Euromonitor International’s leadership team is committed to reducing our environmental impact. The cr Manager, working with the Director of Operations and Office Managers, has day-to-day responsibility for our environmental programmes and activities. Euromonitor International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and recycling and approved carbon balanced programmes. Reports are regularly reviewed to ensure our systems are effective with the majority of refuse produced being recycled. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any environmental incidents, nor has it been the subject of any investigations or legal proceedings by any regulating authority. 8 © Euromonitor International ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment As a world leader in our field, Euromonitor International recognises that we have a duty to set the very highest standards for ethical business practice. Employees of Euromonitor International are made aware that bribery, corruption and extortion in any form is not tolerated within our company under any circumstances. Implementation Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy sets out our responsibilities, and those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption. It also provides information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. The policy is supported by a web-based learning module available via Euromonitor University as well as employee briefings and complementary policies for example our Whistleblowing Policy. We continue to work with our clients adopting and signing up to Codes of Conducts and Supplier Agreements through which we are able to demonstrate our commitment to responsible business practices. © Euromonitor International 9 A N T I -CO R R UP T I O N Measurement All new staff members are issued with a copy of the Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Euromonitor International’s and asked to sign an acknowledgement zero-tolerance approach to slips, all acknowledgements are kept in the bribery and corruption must be employee’s file by hr. communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners Any suspicions, concerns or queries at the outset of our business are reported in the first instance to the relationship with them and as Operations Director and subsequently appropriate thereafter. shared with the cr Manager for the purpose Euromonitor International of monitoring and identifying any areas Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy where additional support or training may be required. During the last 12 months, Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. 10 © Euromonitor International SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In April 2017 our ceo made a commitment to increase our csr Programme and use 1% of turnover for csr activities. As part of this increased commitment, we were able to support a larger number of charity partners through our Headline & Regional Partners programmes and are pleased to say that through these 64 charities along with existing partnerships and some of our key business practises, that we were able to support all 17 sgds this year. Some of the highlights from our Headline Partners are featured below. sdg 3: Good Health & Wellbeing Through our Headline Partnerships with Humanity & Inclusion (hi), Médecins Sans Frontières (msf), Unity in Health and Walkabout Foundation, we are able to support Good Health & Wellbeing in Communities around the world. We are supporting hi with a maternal and child healthcare programme in drc, Source: Humanity & Inclusion which as well as providing much needed equipment for healthcare centres, is supporting the training of medical staff and community champions to spread the message to women in the communities they’re working in. We are giving msf core funding to respond to medical needs and disasters as-and-when they need to. msf provide medical aid to 70 countries worldwide. Mental ill health is a huge issue in Nepal, yet one that is largely ignored with little to no mental healthcare provision. We are supporting Unity in Health with their project in Nepal which aims to address this by providing training and support for healthcare workers in Nepal, delivered by specialist mental healthcare practitioners from the UK and Canada. © Euromonitor International 11 SU STA I N A B LE D EV E LO P M ENT GOA L S Our partnership with Walkabout Foundation has supported them with their wheelchair campaign in Northern Uganda. Through our partnership they were able to distribute 250 Rough Rider Wheelchairs and 40 Hand Tricycles to South Sudanese refugees and the Ugandan host community in northern Uganda. Walkabout Foundation case study: Samaha, 7 Years Old Samaha is the youngest of 7 children. She was displaced from her home in South Sudan two years ago; her loving parents travelled for three days, with her mother carrying her on her back, to get to the safety of the Ugandan border. Samaha has cerebral palsy, and is unable to move more than five metres alone, which means that she is often left isolated even within her own wonderful family. She used to go to school, relying on her older siblings to carry her there, but as she grew, she became too heavy for her sisters to carry her on the three hour walk. Now, thanks to her first ever wheelchair, Samaha will be able to return to school, and she’ll be able to play with her siblings rather than being left inside alone. For Samaha, her wheelchair means the opportunity to have a childhood — something that every little one deserves. sdg 4: Quality Education We have been working with Karam Foundation in their work supporting Syrian refugees in Turkey. Through our partnership, Karam Foundation have been able to reach 70 Syrian refugee girls to support their education. The project sees a monthly stipend being provided to families so that they are able to send their daughters to school instead of keeping them at home for family duties or sending them out to work. I am now in 4th grade and I am loving it. There is nothing bad! I have made new friends and I really like my teachers. We spend our breaks running and playing together. Karam Foundation Beneficiary Source: Karam Foundation sdg 6: Clean Water & Sanitation We have been supporting Just a Drop for a number of years with their water and sanitation projects. This year, we have been supporting projects in India, Nicaragua and Uganda, reaching over 15,000 people in total. The objectives for the project in Hat0 Viejo, Nicaragua, are: 12 © Euromonitor International SUSTAI N ABLE DE VE LOPME NT G OA LS •• 349 people have access to clean, potable water •• Children in particular will benefit from increased health and improved performance in school •• In the long-term, people will have improved economic opportunities and increased productivity, particularly as precious time is not spent fetching water Source: Just a Drop sdg 13: Climate Action As mentioned above, we are supporting two environmental charities through our Carbon Offsetting programme, which sees us offset the carbon emitted from our business flights. One of the charities we have been supporting is Save the Orangutan. Our support is helping with a reforestation project in Borneo, which employs people from the local Source: Save the Orangutan community to grow seedlings a reforest areas of land in the Mawas Forest. 65 community members have been involved in the project, which in turn is supporting c. 3,000 Orangutan in the area. Over 50 hectares of land has been reforested through this project so far. sdg 14: Life Below Water We have very recently started a partnership with The Ocean Cleanup. The Ocean Cleanup is developing advanced technologies to rid the world’s oceans of plastic. The non-profit organization was founded in 2013, by then 18-year-old Boyan Slat, and will deploy its first clean up system mid-2018. Source: The Ocean Cleanup We are funding a lead engineer at The Ocean Cleanup for one year, as of February 2018. © Euromonitor International 13
