Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on Gonvarri 4.0 Drive App Letter from the President Jon Riberas 102-14 President. Gonvarri Steel Services Dear readers, It is a pleasure to present the 2017 Sustainability Report The active contribution to reducing injuries and deaths of Gonvarri Steel Services, in which the most relevant by traffic accidents (SDB 3.6) and to having safer types information and data regarding our performance is shown, of transport in place (SDG 11.2). following the guidelines of the new standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Furthermore, we have renewed The improvement of our products and processes our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. through innovation and the use of the best technology (SDG 9.4). This year the 50th anniversary of the first plant of the group, “Gonvarri Burgos”, was celebrated. In 1967, D. Francisco The contribution to the fight against climate change Riberas, my father, started his professional adventure in and to reducing energy consumption, mainly through his country with few resources, great enthusiasm and our initiatives in Energy Efficiency (SDG 7.3). a great vision, which is being shown, step by step, by The improvement of the training and education of Gonvarri Steel Services at present. At this event, we had our professionals, mainly in less developed countries, the attendance of the complete team of Gonvarri Burgos, enabling them to benefit from future projects (SDG important figures of the local authorities, customers and 4.4). providers, collaborators and friends who wished to share this emotive event with us. • The amplification and improvement of our methodology to understand the opinion of our stakeholders, through a This year the Report has a new design and focus, with technological data and information analysis tool, which some changes from the structure of previous years, of counts with the direct participation of the direction, which we highlight: employees, customers and providers, assessing material • The new development of content following our issues by their importance and the perception of these Management Model “Drive”, with a roadmap based on identified issues. five focal points: Growth, Innovation, Efficiency, People Regarding our business, Gonvarri Steel Services shows, and Sustainability. This allows us to adapt the Report for another year, sustainable growth. As reflected by to our vision, strategy and real management, integrating our financial results, with a total Income that has risen indicators (GRI) and material aspects into it. to 3,038 million euros (+30%), an EBITDA of 210 million • The importance that the Sustainability Development euros (+35%) and a Net Profit of 99 million euros (+13%), Goals (SDG) have for Gonvarri. For this reason, we included allowing us to face new challenges. Moreover, in this year more detailed information about our performance in we have made important investments and acquisitions, these objectives that we most actively support, such as: which have enabled us to strengthen our position in some countries and to grow in others. 4 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 In China, the plants Gonvvama Shenyang (Northeast), Among others, we participate together with the Foundation Changshu (East) and Chongqing (West) have begun operating, LQDVI in 8 national congresses in collaboration with Movistar, and we have also increased our presence in Mexico with the where the message of responsible use of the mobile phone new Gonvarri Baja California plant. In Europe, the new Laser is transmitted to more than 10,000 youths. In a partnership Automotive Valencia plant has come into operation. with AESLEME, we visited numerous schools and study centers in the Community of Madrid, underscoring the At the beginning of 2018 saw the acquisition of the importance of driving in a safe manner, as well as cooperating Constructor Group with which the warehousing and and transmitting these lessons learned and the importance logistics business was further amplified and the acquisition of not having distractions at the wheel to their parents, of the Spanish engineering company Suports Desarrollo y Soluciones, which specializes in aluminium solutions for To close the year, Emotional Driving presented the “on photovoltaic installations on the roofing of buildings, car Christmas, forget about the mobile phone at the wheel” parks and ground for the Solar Steel division. campaign, with the aim to raise awareness about the risk and dangers of using the mobile phone while driving. The 2017 has been a key year in ethics and compliance, we have campaign, aligned with SDG 3.6, was very well received by made significant progress in the new Compliance Model. In the employees of the company and had a strong impact September the Board of Directors approved the new Code on the social networks, being a video shared by leading of Ethics and Conduct, as well as the structure of the new institutions with regard to road safety, on a national and Ethical Committee. In 2018 an ambitious dissemination and international level: DGT, Ponle Freno and Fesvial, to name but training plan for all plants of the group has been designed. a few. Additionally, we have undertaken numerous initiatives Just as in previous years, we maintain an active role against related to the project “Emotional Driving”, which focusses climate change and we continue to minimize our energy on road safety, where one of our priorities is to contribute to consumption through our project of Energy Efficiency and the reduction of the number of accidents and their negative through the development of highly efficient photovoltaic impact through the encouragement of a “Road safety” solar structures and through savings derived from energy culture, aligned to our commitment with the Objectives for efficiency measures, we have indirectly contributed to Sustainable Growth (SDG 3.6 and 11.2). avoiding 223,572 tons of CO2. In this context, we have given special weight to initiatives We continue to advance and to grow with a team of strong related to education and early sensitization. We have and committed professionals, that together form the great designed a brochure which summarizes what, why and family of Gonvarri Steel Services and I would like to thank how we do Emotional Driving and we have implemented them for their enthusiasm and dedication. several activities focused on different interest groups such as employees, youths and children. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 5 Letter from the CEO 102-14 Josu Calvo CEO. Gonvarri Steel Services Dear friend, The investments have mainly focused on Gonvvama China, where the plants of Shenyang, Changshu and Following our commitment of 2014 to inform our stakeChongqing have begun operating. In Europe, the new holders about our economic, social and environmental plants “Laser Automotive Valencia” and “Steel & Alloy performance, it is my pleasure to present the 2017 SusPopes Lane” stand out, which will begin operating at the tainability Report of Gonvarri Steel Services. beginning of 2018, principally for the auto business line. We have ended a year in an environment that saw a Regarding the solar structures business line, we have strengthening global economy and an increasing global inaugurated a new plant in Mexico, ¨Gonvarri Baja Caoutput. From the second semester of 2016, the steel lifornia¨ and we have acquired the Spanish engineeprices have bounced back, thanks to cuts in production ring company ¨Suports Desarollo y Soluciones¨, which and installed capacity primarily in China and to the betspecializes in solar housing structures lighter and with ter global outlook. This has facilitated an increase in the greater application, with which to advance in the way demand of crude steel by 5.3% against last year, with green housing in the near future. China continuing as the first producer, followed from a distance by Japan, India and the United States. At the beginning of 2018, we closed the acquisition of the Constructor Group, with which we amplify the storaIn this global framework, our results show a volume of ge and logistics business line, which will operate under business of 3,038 million euros and a gross operating the ¨Gonvarri Material Handling¨ society. profit (EBITDA) of 210 million euros. This allows us to go beyond and help enhance the value of the commuWe are also reinforcing and expanding the Gonvaunities in which we are present, through paying taxes, to South Carolina and Gonvarri Czech plants, and the our expenditure in local providers and personnel, among plants of Gonvauto Puebla and Gonvarri Poland are in others, reaching a total distributed economic value of the enlargement process. This will allow us to increase 3,019 million euros. our production and to diversify our product portfolio all around the world. The improvement of the group’s results, following the shareholders philosophy, has been reinvested to speed Regarding our strategy and business model, this year up the internalization and diversification process throuwe have consolidated our Management Model ¨Drive¨, gh which we aim to consolidate the growth and the fuwhich is scalable and sustainable long-term, around ture of our company and its workers. To this goal, they which this Report revolves. For its proper development have earmarked 109 million euros that become reinforand transversal implementation in all the group, we ce with very important new investments in 2018 as the have developed an ambitious national and international culmination of our Strategic Plan 2016-18. communication plan in all our plants. 6 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Overall, we have met objectives and reached our expecWe are currently immersed in new challenges such as tations which shows the strength of our business model, the digital revolution and sustainable mobility. Gonvarri and which allows us to keep growing and diversifying, cannot ignore these changes and challenges. For this reand to keep contributing to the development and proason, we have defined a new more agile and flexible ingress of the countries we are active in. novation model, which allows us to adapt our culture and business to today´s market and its new way of working, This growth is also reflected in employment. We have to develop more efficient and sustainable products that around 500 professionals more than last year, and alhelp to differentiate and to improve our climate. This enthough this growth has been generated from almost all deavor is reflected in our R&D investment that reached our plants, China stands out the most due to the new 1.5 million euros. facilities being launched. A clear example of this commitment is the Gonvarri 4.0 In health and safety, it has been a very negative year, project, through which we develop technological soluwhich we have to regret the loss of an employee in Gertions that bring productivity, quality and safety (key ismany. After this incident we have tightened preventive sues for the Group), and that improve the way of working measures, communication, sensitization and controls of the professionals at Gonvarri. For its implementation, that allow us to advance towards a safer work environwe have started a successful pilot project in the Gonment for all. vauto Galicia plant for its high operational efficiency, for Regarding the ¨Compliance Model¨ launched in 2016 via which a multidisciplinary team was selected, led by the the Internal Audit area, we have made notable advances. Innovation area, in collaboration with various technoloThe approval of the new Code of Ethics and Conduct by gical providers. the Board of Directors stands out for its importance, as Finally, we have reinforced our commitment to the Suswell as the Statute of the Compliance Committee and tainability Development Goals (SDG), in the Managethe Compliance Policy, the Rule Zero, the functions and ment Model “Drive”, in 4 focal points. In the Report, we responsibilities of Internal Audit and Compliance, just as describe the main principles which were developed in the antifraud and corruption Policy and the Compliance training and employment (SDG 4.4), the project “EmotioModel supervision plan. nal Driving”(SDG 3.6), efficiency and innovation (SDG 9.4) In 2018, an ambitious global communication and training and energy efficiency and climate change (SDG 7.3). plan for the new Code of Ethics and Conduct is in the piWith that being said, our future vision is optimistic and peline. Additionally, the new complaint channels and the responsible being conscious of the difficulty of the corestructuration of the Ethics Channel is operational and ming challenges. available for all stakeholders. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 7 1 Our Business 2 DRIVE. MANAGEMENT MODEL 3 ANNEXES 1 Our BUSINESS 10 Our Company 19 Our Management Model “Drive” 20 Governance 22 Ethics, anticorruption and compliance 24 Our contribution to the SDG 26 Relevant aspects: materiality analysis Sustainability Report 2017 9 Our Company Gonvarri Corporacion Financiera, S.L. (henceforth Gonvarri or From the beginning, Gonvarri Steel Services has experienGSS) was founded in 1958, conducting business in manufacced huge growth, diversifying itself to a global level, and it turing, processing and trading in steel products and metals has a presence in 16 countries with 37 operating plants related to the iron and steel industry (102-1). and 1 plant under construction. The corporate structure of the Gonvarri Corporacion FinanIn 2017, the plants Gonvarri Baja California, Laser Autociera is 100% owned by HOLDING GONVARRI S.R.L. (102-5) motive Valencia started operating, as well as the Chinese The headquarters are located in (102-1 and 102-3): plants Gonvvama Shenyang (Northeast) and Changshu Prolongación de Embajadores, s/n. (East) and, at the end of the year, Chongquing (West). Mo28053 Madrid Spain reover, the construction of the Steel & Alloy Popes Lane plant is in its final stage. (102-3) Similarly, the acquisition of the Constructor Group and the Engineering Support and Development Solutions stands out, which we include in the Report in 2018 (102-10). (G4-9) Milestones Next, the Groups evolution since its beginning in 1958 will be shown. 1993 1998 2000 2001 2004 2006 2009 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1991 Gonvauto Gonvarri AMG Gonvauto Gonvarri Gonvarri Gonvauto SG Kaluga Gonvauto Laser Gonvauto Gonvarri Gonvvama Laser Auto. Barcelona Portugal Navarra Tarragona Polonia Puebla South Automotive Asturias Czech Loudi Valencia Paraná Carolina Barcelona 1982 Gonvarri Barcelona Gonvarri 1978 AMG Gonvauto Gonvauto Gaipl Pune Gonvarri GVS Laser Auto. Baja California Campinas Galicia Thüringen Gonvarri Dongguan Brandenburg Turkey Arizona Gonvarri Valencia 1972 Gonvvama Shenyang AMG Gonvarri Gonvauto Chongquing Gonvarri Aluminium Hiasa Senica Argentina Steel & Alloy Colombia Changshu Gonvarri 1958 Burgos S&A Popesline MAG Resende Constructor (2018) 10 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 2017 Gonvarri in figures 102-7 Income EBITDA 3,038,010 Thousand of € 210,086 Thousand of € R&D Net investment profit Inversions 1,497.4 99,328 109,312 Thousand of € Thousand of € Thousand of € 223,572 t/CO2 Employees* avoided 4,872 professionals Emotional Driving Operational facilities* Presence* 37 in 16 countries * Global perimeter. Perimeter of the Sustainability Report: 14 countries, 34 factories and 3,513 employees at 31 December 2017. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 11 Divisions in Gonvarri In terms of activity and geographical position, the company is grouped into (102-2 and 102-6): Gonvauto Iberia Central Europe Gonvarri Material NAFTA • Gonvauto Navarra • Laser Automotive Handling • Gonvauto Puebla • Gonvauto Barcelona Brandenburgo • Gonvauto Carolina • Constructor • Gonvauto Galicia • Gonvauto Thüringen del Sur • Kasten · Laser Automotive • Dexion Thüringen Western Europe • PSS LatAm · Gonvarri Aluminum • Gonvarri Valencia • MAG Resende • Gonvarri Polonia • Laser Automotive • AMG Campinas Barcelona • SG Kaluga • Gonvarri Czech Asia • AMG Paraná • Gonvarri en Barcelona • GAIPL Pune • Gonvarri Argentina • AMG Senica • Gonvarri Burgos • GVS Dongguan • Gonvarri Tarragona • Gonvvama Gonvarri Metal Misceláneos • Gonvarri Portugal · Loudi • Laser Automotive Structures · Shenyang Offices of: • Hiasa • Corporación Financiera Valencia · Changshu • Gonvauto Asturias • Italy • Steel&Alloy UK · Chongqing • GMS Arizona • Marrocco · S&A Aycliffe • Gonvarri Turkey • GonvaSolar · S&A Bridge Street • Gonvarri Colombia · S&A Darlostone • Gonvarri Baja California · S&A West Bromwich • Offices of Bilbao 50th Anniversary Gonvarri Burgos Gonvarri Burgos, the first plant of the group, had its 50th anniversary. It started activity in 1967 with its first cutting line and currently has a workforce of 245 employees. Annually, over 650,000 tons of steel are processed there. For its 50th anniversary celebration, a commemorative exposition was organized which took us on a tour through its history which reflected the values that have made this company great: Honesty, Humility, Tenacity and Work. Additionally, the official 50th anniversary App was developed, which is available for iPhone and Android, in which it is possible to take an interactive tour through the different sections of the exposition and be brought to the origins of the company by the virtual reality room. In addition, an institutional event was held to which our president Jon Riberas, his brother Francisco Riberas, president of Gestamp, attended, together with employees, former employees, directors as “one of the most emblematic and historic companies in the teand customers of Gonvarri. In the event, Arturo Sagredo, manarritory he presides; and Francisco Javier Lacalle, mayor of Burgos, ging director of Gonvarri Burgos, received an emotive tribute and who stressed the importance of the Gonvarri Burgos plant in the a commemorative plaque for his years leading the plant. city as a “reference in the creation of employment and professioThe main authorities of Burgos and Castile and León also atnalization of its industry”. tended, among which Juan Vincente Herrera, president of the At the end of this event, Juan Vicente Herrera inaugurated a comGoverning Board of Castille and León, who defined the company memorative statue for the 50th anniversary of Gonvarri Burgos. 12 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 GSS Corporate LATAM A net profit of 99,328 thousand euros was presented in 2017 NAFTA 2% 0.9% Western and a CAPEX of 109,312 thousand euros. 10.3% Europe In this regard, the investment in Gonvvama principally stands out, where three plants were inaugurated, Shenyang (Nor20.9% theast), Changshu (East) and Chongqing (West). Central Europe Metal Similarly, the new Laser Automotive Valencia plant started operating, the construction of the new Steel & Alloy plant in 15.7% Structures Oldbury (UK) and the second expansion phase of the plant in 3.3% the Czech Republic were finalized, which will start operating at the beginning of 2018. Gonvauto Asia Additionally, the expansion of the warehouses in Poland and Iberia 45.4% in NAFTA have started and the plants in Puebla (Mexico) and 1.5% South Carolina (US) have been expanded. Distribution of investments Associations and organizations 102-13 Corporate level Gonvarri Valencia Gonvarri Tarragona • Fundación SERES • Clúster de Automoción de Valenciana• Asociación Provincial de Empresas del • Fundación Consejo España China Asociación Valenciana de la Industria Metal de Tarragona (APEMTA) de Automóvil (AVIA) Europe • Asociación Empresarios Camp de Gonvarri Portugal • European Steel Association Morvedre (ASECAM) • Associação Nacional das Empresas (EUROFER) • Federación del Metal de Valencia Metalúrgicas e Eletromecânicas Spain (FEMEVAL) (ANEME) • Confederación Española de • Unión de almacenistas del hierro de Organizaciones Empresariales del España (UAHE) Gonvarri Colombia Metal (CONFEMETAL) • Asociación Nacional de Industriales de • Unión de Empresas Siderúrgicas Gonvauto Galicia Colombia (ANDI) (UNESID) • Asociación de Industriales Metalúrgicos • Instituto Nacional de Normalización • Asociación Española de Contabilidad y de Galicia (ASIME) Técnica (ICONTEC) Administración de Empresas • Clúster del Automóvil de Galicia • AMCHAMSPAIN (CEAGA) Gonvarri Alemania • Gonvauto Navarra • Initiative Erfurter Kreuz • Asociación Innovación en Prevención • Asociación de Empresarios del Metal • Steel&Alloy • Asociación Española para la Calidad (AEC) (ANEM) • Confederation of British Metal Forming • Casino de Madrid • Asociación de la Industria Navarra (AIN) • Instituto Empresa Familiar Gonvarri Turquía Gonvarri Burgos • Tod Galvader Gonvauto Barcelona • Asociación Española para la Calidad • Kasiad and Gonvarri Barcelona (AEC) • Foment del Treball • Asociación de empresarios propietarios Gonvauto Puebla del Polígono Industrial Gamonal• Canacintra (Cámara Nacional de la • Patronal multisectorial de Empresas Villimar (ASPIGAVI) Industria de Transformación) Catalanas (CECOT) • Asociación Plan Estratégico Ciudad de • Riptac (Relaciones Industriales de • Clúster de Automoción de Cataluña Burgos Puebla y Tlaxcala A.C.) • Unión Patronal Metalúrgica Associació • Fundación Universidad de Burgos D’empresaris de Castellbisbal • Federación Empresarial del Metal Gonvauto South Carolina • Unió de Magatzemistes de Ferros de (FEMEBUR) • HR Association Chamber of Commerce. Catalunya i Balears • Federación de asociaciones • Asociación de Empresarios de empresariales de Burgos (FAE) Castellbisbal • Hiasa/Gonvauto Asturias • Unió Empresarial Metallurgica Consell dúsuaris del Transport de Catalunya • Federación de Empresarios del Metal y Afines del Principado de Asturias (FEMETAL) Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 13 Operational Countries Professionals facilities GSS GLOBAL PERIMETER 16 37 4,872 PERIMETER OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 34 3,513 u.K. 5 194 Steel & Alloy Popesline* Steel & Alloy Aycliffe Steel & Alloy Bridge Street Steel & Alloy Darlostone 1 Steel & Alloy West Bromwich USA 2 81 Gonvarri Arizona Gonvauto South Carolina PORTUGAL 1 83 Gonvarri Portugal MEXICO 2 164 Gonvarri Baja California Gonvauto Puebla colombia 1 225 Gonvarri Colombia braZil 3 297 argentina AMG Campinas 1 55 MAG Resende** AMG Paraná Gonvarri Argentina 14 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Worldwide Presence 102-4 GERMANY POLAND Russia 2 197 1 98 1 58 Gonvauto Thüringen Gonvarri Polska SG Kaluga · Laser Thüringen · Gonvarri Aluminium Laser Automotive Brandenburg CZECH TURKEY REP. 1 258 1 58 Gonvarri Turkey Gonvarri Czech Slovakia 1 AMG Senica** iNDIA Spain 1 china 5 245 10 1.470 Gaipl PUNE** Gonvvama Shenyang Headquarters Gonvvama Changshu Gonvarri Burgos GVS Dangguan Gonvarri Barcelona Gonvvama Loudi Gonvarri Tarragona Gonvvama Chongqing Gonvarri Valencia Office Gonvvama Gonvauto Barcelona Gonvauto Galicia Gonvauto Navarra Hiasa · Gonvauto Asturias Laser Automotive Barcelona Laser Automotive Valencia * Under construction ** Not included in the scope of the report Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 15 Markets 102-2 The company has a presence in 16 countries, which allows us to cover the entire global market. We continue to invest in service facilities, with new production lines subject to the increase in demand and internal initiatives of the company, which allows us to strengthen our position in the global market. In the sections 102-2 and 102-4, the divisions and countries where GSS is active are elaborated. The main activity in 2017 will be outlined hereunder: January Launch of GVS Dongguan, completion of the carve-out of certain assets of DGS. March Start-up of Blanking 4 of Gonvarri South Carolina and May of blanking and welding in Celebration of the 50th Gonvvama Changshu. anniversary of our first plant Gonvarri Burgos. Development and publication of the two first key processes (commercial risk management and scrap metal management) in the PE16-18 framework. February Start of the construction Steel&Alloy Greenfield Popes Lane. April Start-up of Blanking 7 of Gonvarri Thüringen. 16 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 September November Opening of the Gonvvama Start-up of the blanking and Changshu plant. welding lines in Gonvvama Chongqing. Approval of the new Code of Ethics and the rules of procedure of the Ethics Channel by Gonvarri, as well as the compliance and anti-fraud policies. July Start-up of the new plant Gonvarri Baja California. December Agreement with JLR to start NITRA project which implies the construction of our second plant in Slovakia. Acquisition of the “Suports Desarrollo y Soluciones”. October Negociation for de acquisition of the Constructor Group which markets their products under the Constructor, Kasten, Dexion and PSS brands. August Start of the amplification of Gonvauto Puebla. Start of the amplification of June Gonvarri Czech. Start of production of the Gonvvama Shenyang blanking and welding lines. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 17 Main brands and products 102-2 The company operates under We are an industrial company dedicated to steel processing, in the shared brand ¨Gonvarri steady growth, with a workforce that is mainly active in the plants Steel Services¨ which is adap(83.3%). For this reason, our brand is based on universal and simted to the different plants and ple values that represent its greatness, just like the strength and business lines. All of them commitment of its workers. have the same isotype in common, as a sign of the company´s These values continue to be valid at present, being easily adapted corporate identity. to the changes and current situation of the company, allowing us Our values ¨Honesty, Humility, Tenacity and Work¨ are an essento continue being leaders in our sector. tial part of our brand and have been entrenched in the DNA of Finally, the company has been co-branded with its partners in the Gonvarri Steel Services from the very beginning. following plants; SG Kaluga (Russia) with Severstal, AMG Parana and AMG Campinas (Brazil) and AMG Senica (Slovakia) with ArcelorMittal, MAG Resende (Brazil) with Mitsui and ArcelorMittal and in China with our partner Vama. Products The quality and innovation of our products allow us to differentiate from our competitors and so to create competitive advantages. In our service centers, steel and aluminium are treated with a series of high-tech processes which allow our products and formats to be accurately adjusted to the requirements of our customers, always complying with the most rigorous standards. Our products can be grouped into 5 business lines as are outlined in the next section: automotive industry Leaders in the supply of flat Versatility and adaptation to the steel, steel tubing and 3D laser customer through various products: cutting to the main automotive fuel and chemical storage depots, ad Tier 1s and OEMs as well as to hoc structures and products made to important stamping companies. order for various industrial customers. ROAD STEEL SOLAR STEEL MATERIAL HANDLING Development of practically all In permanent growth. Develops, manufactures and assembles containment systems for highways, Designs and develops fixed integral storage systems, focused on just as anti-noise screens and soundand mobile solar structures, companies that require the storage of raw absorbing coating of tunnels, strictly as well as streetlights and materials, work-in-process or finished goods meeting all regulations and with electricity towers. during their processes. numerous patents. 18 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Our Management Model “Drive” Drive is the Management Model that pushes Gonvarri to reach its profitability and growth objectives. The model is based on people, on the efficiency of the continuous improvement of its processes, on the particular effort in innovation, and always with a focus on sustainability. During it dissemination informative on-site sessions were held in all plants based on a cascade communication; from the Direction to their direct collaborators (managers), and these to their teams, until descending to all the professionals who make up Gonvarri. To contribute to its proper understanding, a myriad of supporting material was made available, such as rollups, ¨Drive¨ decks of cards, leaflets, rollout manuals, explanatory videos, etc. Additionally, the employees were able to ask about their concerns about Drive through the web ¨Leading the Change¨. On this page it is possible to interact with the model, by clicking on each element, as well as through the App on the same platform. Drive and the Sustainability Report In Gonvarri, sustainability is part of the company´ values and principles and thus of its strategy and management. For this reason, we have modified the design of the Report this year. This, consistent with our Management Model “Drive”, with our commitment with the “Sustainability Development Goals” and with topics that are relevant to our stakeholders, allow us to give an approach which is more appropriate and coherent to our way of understanding sustainability and its impact on the management of the company. As in past years, the Report has an annual periodicity, and covers the information comprised between January 1st 2017 and December 31st 2017, being the last report of the year 2017 (102-50, 102-51 and 102-52). The Report is made in accordance with “the GRI StandardsComprehensive Option”, which list of GRI Contents is annexed to the Report, jointly with the independent external verification report of the company PwC (102-54 and 102-56). For general questions about this report, you may refer to (102-53): rsc@gonvarri.com +34 91 379 10 00 C/ Ombú 3, floor 6. 28045 Madrid. Spain People Efficiency Innovation Sustainability Gonvarri Gonvarri Steel Steel Services Memoria Services Sustainability Report 2017 de Sostenibilidad 19 Governance Governance Structure GSS is an unquoted company, whose members of the Board of Directors represent all shareholders, and therefore there is no 102-18 legal imperative to have representatives from other stakeholThe governing bodies of the society are the General Shareholders, nor to take other factors related to diversity, minorities, ders´ Meeting and the Board of Directors, which is the highest etc. into consideration. (102-22 and 102-24). The President of governing, supervision, decision and control body of Gonvarri. GSS does not hold an executive position (102-23). In the Statutes of Gonvarri, the functioning of the Board of DirecThe performance of the Board of Directors is not reviewed, as tors and the requirements and deadlines for convening the Genethe members are the owners of the company through their ral Shareholders´ Meeting are reflected. shares and represent all partners. This year there have not been any changes to the members or the organizational pracAs of December 31st 2017, the Board of Directors is formed by: tices (102-28). The Board of Directors makes relevant decisions in plenary session and delegates, when applicable, the execution of these. Additionally, special powers of attorney can be agreed by the Board of Direction in favor of employees of the company to carry out specific elements in those operations previously Mr. Juan María approved by this body (102-19). Riberas Mera President The powers for the designation of the Board Directors correspond exclusively to the General Shareholders´ Meeting, which Mr. Vijay Mr. Francisco José constitutes the interest of all the company partners (102-24). Krishna Goyal Riberas Mera For either a natural or legal person to be appointed as adminisVice president Secretary trator, being a partner, it is not required. Likewise, the conditions that prohibit such function are established in the Statutes. The partner will not be able to exercise his voting right associaMr. Alain Mr. José Manuel ted with their participations when in one of the conflict of inLe Grix de la Salle Arias García terest cases established in article 190 of the Royal Legislative Board Member Board Member Decree 1/2010, of the July 2, in which the Consolidated Text of the Corporate Law was approved (102-25). Regarding the information and consultation mechanisms (102Mr. Jesús Acek Desarrollo 21), these are done through the different administrations that Calvo Moreira y Gestión act as a conduit between the Board of Directors and the diBoard Member Industrial, S.L. fferent stakeholders. Furthermore, the General Manager holds Board Member biannual meetings with all the corporate staff. In these meetings, the relevant elements related to the management and the company´s situation are outlined and the feedback from Gonvauto, S.A. Agrícola the staff on these matters and other matters of interest is reBoard Member La Veguilla, S.A. ceived, with all the corporate staff in Madrid available for direct Board Member consultation. The company ACEK DESARROLLO Y GESTIÓN INDUSTRIAL, S.L. represented The responsibilities, functions, by Mr Juan María Riberas Mera held the position of Managing Director at 31 communication and knowledge of the December 2017, vested with each and highest governing body in relation to every one of the powers attributed to the Board itself, except those that according to sustainability the Law or the Articles of Association may not be delegated. Through our parent group, we count with a global corporate culture that retains the very same values and principles from our origin, but which are tailored to the local needs of each country, to the current market conditions and to the stakeholders´ demands. 20 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 The Board of Directors is responsible for Risk Management The Board of Directors can designate an the approval and commitment to complying Executive Commission or one or more with the Code of Ethics, the Sustainability Functions of the highest Managing Directors among themselves, Policy, as well as the compliance policies. governing body determining the people who must perMoreover, company employees can be exform said roles and their course of action, For the development and execution of new pressly empowered to carry out specific it may delegate, totally or partially, temprojects, a thorough study is performed in elements of operations previously approved porarily or permanently, all the powers which all the quantitative and qualitative by this body (102-20 y 102-26). which are subject to delegation pursuant aspects of the project are analyzed and Specifically, the following policies and coto Law. weighted, just as the investment, financing des were approved in 2017: the new Code and potentials risks for the different admiAll debates and agreements of the Board of Ethics, the Compliance Policy, the supernistrations of the company and the Manashall be recorded in the Minutes Book, vising Plan of the complaint channel, the angement Committee, prior to its presentation which shall be signed by the President tifraud Policy and the internal audit Statute. and subsequent approval to the Board of and the Secretary or by the Vice-PresiThe heads of the different administrations Directors. dent and the Vice secretary when applikeep a permanent and fluent communicable. All these activities and the possible riscation with the General Manager of the ks derived from these are continuously In regard with the most relevant topics company. Any important worry is immeanalyzed by the management and the GSS which were dealt with, the annual acdiately conveyed by the heads of the diffeteams, which allows for risk detection and counts of the previous year were derent areas to the General Manager, who, if the implementation of the necessary cosigned and in all meetings the projects, necessary, will convey this to the Board of rrecting measures in a fast and agile way. In investments, budgets, sales and market Directors (102-33). the Risk Management section, the risk masituation were followed up on, just as the The company participates and integrates nagement and identification methodology on the issues most relevant to each adit´s economic, social and environmental is described (102-29, 102-30 y 102-31). ministration. responsibilities into the different managements, whose highest managers bring any decisions to be taken to the General Manager and, where appropriate, to the Board of Directors. Additionally, they are permaNature and amount of Remuneration of the nently informed of economic, social and environmental matters, through different aspects raised in the Board of Directors internal communication mechanisms, such Board of Directors (102-34) The remuneration of the Administrative as: periodical meetings with the directors of Body consists of a fixed pecuniary amount the different areas, the biannual meetings The General Shareholders´ Meeting will that will be set in a General Shareholders´ of the General Manager with the staff, the be invoked by the administrators and, Meeting prior to the end of the year. This development and approval of the Sustainawhen applicable, by the liquidators of will be compatible with other professional bility Report and different communication the Society, within the 6 first months of or payments that, when applicable, comechanisms like the intranet ¨Leading the each year, to ratify the corporate manarrespond to the administrator for any exeChange¨ (102-27). gement, to approve, when applicable, the cutive or advisory function they perform in financial statements of the previous year the Society and will determine standards In regard with the Sustainability Report, and to determine on the use of the result. for their corresponding payment. this is coordinated through the Corporate Management of Communication, MarkeThe administrators will invoke the GeneIn the case that the Administrative Body ting and Sustainability. A materiality study ral Shareholders´ Meeting this way when takes the form of the Board of Directors, is performed annually in which key points they deem it necessary or convenient it will determine the amount each of its for its stakeholders are gathered and impleand, in any event, when one or various members has to receive, in function of mented throughout the Report. Its function partners that represent at least 5 percent their dedication to the direction of the is transversal within the organization, as of the share capital request so. When the Society. If the Administrative Body takes it covers the different societies within the Management and representation of the another form, it will correspond to the GeGroup (102-32). Society are entrusted to a Board of Direcneral Shareholders´ Meeting to decide if, tors the established guidelines for that in function to said parameters, the remuThe Report follows a supervision and revipurpose will be followed. neration of each administrator will be the sion process, to finally be approved by the Managing Director. Additionally, to ensure It will gather at least 4 times a year, and same or will vary. (102-35). the trustworthiness of the information, it is additionally when its President or ViTo calculate the remuneration stakeholexternally verified by an independent body. ce-President deem it appropriate. The anders shall not be considered nor consulted nouncement will always be made in wri(102-36 y 102-37). ting, directed to each Counselor, minimally five days in advance of the meeting. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 21 Ethics, anticorruption and compliance In 2016 a project focused on developing the new ¨Compliance Model¨ was initiated through the Internal Audit area. Within this project a deep revision of the Code of Ethics and Conduct was done, just as the revision of various anti-corruption, risk, commercial sanctions and information exchange policies, among others, which were all approved by the Board of Directors in September 2017 and January 2018. These policies will be outlined hereunder: Code of Ethics protection, codes of conduct, accounting, The document implements the operafinancial reporting, transparency and Cortional principles concerning prevention, and Conduct porate Governance standards, compliance detection, control and sanctioning of frauThe code is applicable to all Societies into IT regulations, to competition Law, Indulent and misconduct, in its fight against tegrated into the Group, as well as to industrial and Intellectual Property Law, to fraud and corruption, basing these on the vestee companies that are under effective Tax and Customs legislation, to occupatiocorporate ethical culture and its commitcontrol. In the investee companies where nal risk prevention legislation, to environment to regulatory compliance. the Code is not applicable, principles and mental legislation, to sectoral legislation, guidelines consistent to this Code are proto restrictions and international sanctions, moted. as well as to the roles and functions of the Compliance Model It is mandatory for employees, collaboBoard of Directors and the management supervision plan of the company. rators, directors and the managers of the The principles that apply to the manageGroup know the full content of the Code ment, supervision, monitoring and revision and especially the principles and behaof the model are explicitly stated by this vioral guidelines in it. It is mandatory that Rule zero plan. they carry out training in this subject and This has as its objective to organize the In this area, the GSS Board of Directors, as that they pass an exam of the principles production, approval and publishing of the most responsible for the safeguarding and guidelines contained in the code of the internal regulation devised by GSS and management of the risk of default wiethics and conduct and designated to the people that are in thin the Group, mandates the Compliance its structure or related to GSS in any of Committee with the responsibility to entheir own areas of activity. It is an internal The statute of the global guideline that shall be applied to all sure its correct supervision and revision. The plan has the objective to determine Compliance Committee departments or division and, therefore, is the roles and responsibilities in the superof obligatory compliance for all employees The aim of this document is to define the vision process, as well as the criteria to be of the GSS Group. scope, responsibilities and the powers of used in its implementation, including the the Compliance Committee, just as the testing of the Compliance Model and the principles and guidelines that will regulate its composition and functioning, to conAnti-fraud and definition of the communication and reporting procedures between the different trol, supervise, evaluate and improve the corruption Policy parties involved in the periodical supervi“Compliance Model”. This policy establishes the commitment sion of said Model. of the Group to the corporate values and behavioral guidelines set in its ¨Code of Compliance Policy Ethics and Conduct¨ explicitly expressing Functions and This establishes the commitment of the the objection of the GSS Group to commiresponsibilities of Internal Group to the corporate values and behatting any type of conduct that implies or might imply an act of fraud or corruption. Audit department and vioral guidelines of its ¨Code of Ethics and Conduct¨, assuming the firm obligation to It is applicable to all the societies in the compliance prevent, detect and punish any behavior Group with a majority shareholding, directThis policy defines the functions, compethat implies a breach of the legal obligaly or indirectly, by its parent society, Gontencies, responsibilities and operational tions set by the internal and external revarri Corporación Financiera, S.L. and to all principles of the management of Internal gulations applicable to GSS. the people of the Group in the performanAudit and Compliance, under the superIts compliance scope encompasses: crimice of their functions and responsibilities in vision of the Executive Director and the nal risk prevention policies, personal data all activity areas in which they represent Managing Director. the Group. 22 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Complaints and ongoing disputes Rules of procedure of the Corporate policy for risk In 2017, the Ethics Committee received a report of workplace harassEthics Channel control and management ment in the central offices. After the These define the operating principles and This policy has as its aim to determine investigation, it was concluded that the terms of use on which the Ethics Chansome basic principles, such as an internal the claim was unfounded (406-1). nel is based, such as the functions and rescontrol framework and the management Apart from that, no discrimination caponsibilities of each of the bodies involved of any type of risk that the Group Gonvarri ses nor complaints from third parties in the management and processing of Steel Services faces. have been detected. (205-3). queries/complaints. The risk management system of the GSS In 2017, 4 proceedings have begun The Ethics Channel is made available to all Group provides reasonable assurance that as a result of work accidents relaemployees, directors, managers and collaall meaningful risks: strategic, operational, ted to work procedures. These may borators in the Gonvarri Group and also to financial, and of compliance; are prevenlead to sanctions for social security other external stakeholders, such as custed, identified, evaluated, and subject to surcharges derived from lack of setomers, providers or the society in general. continuous supervision. This information curity measures in Spain, all of these This with the same objective of consulting is further elaborated on in the Risks and are ongoing at the end of closing the doubts about the application of the Code Opportunities section. report. of Ethics and Conduct, just as notifying Regarding other initiated procedures the possible misconducts that correspond against the society, ongoing disputo the breach thereof. This is further elaboCorporate policy for infortes and sanctions, there are no other rated in the sustainability chapter. mation exchange with the meaningful instances that have a recompetition levant economic impact on the Company in regard to unfair competition, Corporate policy on trade This policy has as its aim to define the rumonopolistic practices and practices sanctions les and standards that govern the exchanagainst free competition (206-1), ge of information between the personnel health and safety impacts of proThis policy´s aim is to complement the geof competing companies and our own. ducts and services(416-2), justified neral provisions, related to the compliance The exchange of information constitutes complaints related to customer prito all laws and regulation on sanctions an especially sensitive act that may imply vacy violations nor to customer data and international trade restrictions, deteran infringement of antitrust laws and/or losses (418-1) nor any incidents demined by the Code of Ethics and Conduct be a crime; this is why mandatory rules of rived from products information and and in the Compliance Policy of the Group. conduct are defined, just as the corresponlabelling (417-2), nor breaches resulIt encompasses broad economic sanctions ding sanctions. ting from marketing communications against a country or territory; as well as (417-3) and nor any non-compliance the particular economic sanctions based Following the approval of all compliance to the laws and legislation in the on lists, in which certain entities, people policies and the rules of procedure of the social, environmental and economic and organizations are included. Ethics and complaints Channel, an ambiareas (307-1 and 419-1). tious communication and training plan for 2018 has been devised, which is outlined Corporate policy for tax in the chapter sustainability. The training risk management done in 2017 is included in the People chapter. This policy has as its objective to ensure the compliance to the applicable tax legislation and to procure an adequate coordination of the adopted policy by entities that belong to the Group, avoiding risks and fiscal inefficiencies in the execution of business decisions. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 23 Our contribution to the SDG In September 2015, the member states of the United Nations engaged with a historic commitment when approving the 17 Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) 2016 2030, as a new roadmap to follow the next 15 years. The contents of these SDG can be People Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all. interpreted in 169 goals that cover Project: social, environmental and economic Training Ensure inclusive and quality education aspects. for new for all and promote lifelong learning. employees. SDG 4.4 By 2030, From our commitment to sustainaStart-up teams substantially increase bility, we, at Gonvarri Steel ServiDevelopment the number of youth and adults who have relevant ces, are aware of the importance of and job skills, including technical an active participation to contribute stability. and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs to the success of these. For this Reduce inequality within and entrepreneurship. reason, we have defined 4 direct and among countries. objectives which are linked to our management model and our future People strategy, just as other indirect objectives, which are outlined next: Sustainability Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. SDG 3.6: By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. Build resilient infrastructure, Make cities inclusive, safe, Revitalize the global promote sustainable resilient and sustainable. partnership for sustainable industrialization and foster development innovation. Sustainability Project: Emotional Driving Project: Innovation: Road safety. 24 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Efficienty Ensure sustainable conProject: sumption and production patterns. Energy efficiency Project: Ensure access to affordable, Innovation. reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Light SDG 7.3. By 2030, double the vehicles global rate of improvement in energy efficiency. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Efficiency Profitable growth SDG 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries Innovation to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with Build resilient infrastructure, promote all countries taking action in sustainable industrialization and accordance with their respective foster innovation. capabilities. Revitalize the global partPromote inclusive and susnership for sustainable tainable economic growth, Ensure sustainable condevelopment employment and decent sumption and production work for all. patterns. Innovation Project: Gonvarri 4.0 Project: SPG Project: Processes and products Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 25 Relevant aspects: materiality analysis Our stakeholders: Identification and communication 102-40, 102-42 and 102-43 The relation with our stakeholders is a priority issue in Gonvarri. In nels true to their expectations and to orientate the content of the this area, we consider every organization that could exert a subsReport to the economic, social and environmental areas. tantial influence, and what is or might be affected by our activity. We have different communication channels specifically for each For this reason, since the publication of the first Sustainability of our identified stakeholders. This allows us to have an active Report in 2013, we have analyzed and updated our identified dialogue, to respond faster and more efficiently to trends and to stakeholders, to improve the communication and response chantheir needs, as is outlined below: Specific mechanism Stakeholders · Periodically reports between the General Shareholders Managers and the CEO /Senior body · Each quarter, the most significant results are included on the order of the Board of Directors day · Global satisfaction climate survey · Intranet Leading The Change Employees · Interdepartmental meetings with management · Work council and Health and Safety Committee · Catalogues and stands at trade fairs · “B2B Platforms” as a communication tool Clients · Annual satisfaction survey · Regular visits and meetings · Claims management · Supplier evaluation surveys Suppliers · Regular visits and meetings · Supplier’s portal · Claims management · Relationships with local authorities, sectoral associations Local and other organisations are typically organised by Communities Management at each plant. and Authorities · Events and days of “open doors” · Institutional meetings · Joint initiatives with third sector organizations NGO´s · Collaborations and volunteering · Daily analysis of relevant news Media · Press releases · Social media channels and a website · Forums and associations Competence · Specific collaborations 26 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Regarding the results of the internal and external communication in 2017, we stress the following results, which include the information of GSS, Emotional Driving and the product pages on LinkedIn. LinkedIn YouTube Followers Twitter 8,237 1,723 191 TOTAL Facebook 13,061 Total number of 2,910 contents posted in 2017 416 19 64 627 Visits to our 128 profiles 15,775 23,481 15.500 1,300 56,056 Materiality study 102-44, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 For the ¨Identification of material aspects¨, a benchmark of For this identification, we amplified and improved our methodology the companies in the sector was done, appearances in the for information collection and representativeness of our stakeholders communication media were analyzed and assessed, as were through technological data and information analysis tools, counting reports from analysts regarding topics relevant to our secwith the direct participation of the management, employees, custotor, and implementation and development in the company mers and providers, through the assessment of the importance and (policies, plans, etc.). This allowed us to group the relevant perception of the identified aspects. information in 21 aspects. This improvement allows us to have this information, not only at a Next, we weighed these 21 aspects, from an internal and corporative level, but also for each country where GSS has a presence external perspective, to identify the most relevant to our and, with it, to specify local measures that improve our management stakeholders and to the company. and response. The process is shown in the attached graphic: External and internal coverage: 102-46 External Sectorial Press Analysts´ Employees’ Providers´ Benchmark analysis reports opinion opinion Internal Management Press Contractual Key aspects Model: Drive analysis obligations The average participation of the interviewed stakeholders, directors, employees, providers and customers is around 54% as outlined next: Surveys sent: 1,534 Participation Managers Employees Clients Suppliers 64% 54% 41% 60% There have not been any relevant changes with respect to last year. The minor changes are indicated in their corresponding sections (102-49). There has been no restatement of the information regarding the previous year (102-48). Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 27 After this analysis, consideration and revision, a total of 11 global material subjects were defined, taking into account the answers of all stakeholders in all countries. In the table the material aspects are indicated and the chapters in which they are elaborated: GSS Global Material Subjets Reference material 1 Presence in new countries and new product development. Our business The commitment of senior management to sustainability 2 Our business and governance. Formal ethical and anti-corruption framework. Drive: 3 Communication, implementation and Complaint channels. sustainability Formal risk control and compliance framework. Drive: profitable 4 Communication, implementation and complaint channels. growth Policies related to Human Rights, Complaint Drive: 5 and response channels. sustainability Talent attraction and retention. Training, professional 6 Drive: personas development and performance assessment programs. Social action and local community dialogue programs Drive: 7 and strategy. sustainability Security and health management for employees 8 Drive: efficiency and outsourced contracts. 9 Environmental management. Drive: efficiency Energy: Consumption, plans, and energy efficiency Drive: 10 programs and development of renewable energies. sustainability Innovation: products, quality, security, environmental Drive: efficiency 11 impact and process efficiency. Drive: innovation 28 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Apart from the analysis of the global answers, these have been analyzed on a country level, to determine the material aspects that are important on a national level rather than on a global level. The material issues by country are summarized below: Argentina: Material Aspects Reference material Transparent communication with the stakeholders. Our business Diversity advancement and policies. Drive: People BRAzIL: Material Aspects Reference material Transparent communication with the stakeholders. Our business COLOMBIA: Material Aspects Reference material Diversity advancement and policies. Drive: People MEXICO: Material Aspects Reference material Transparent communication with the stakeholders. Our business poland: Material Aspects Reference material Information on indirect economic impacts. Drive: profitable growth Diversity advancement and policies. Drive: People Regarding these aspects, additional information will be given in the corresponding chapters. The rest of the countries do not present additional material aspects. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 29 1 Our Business 2 DRIVE. MANAGEMENT MODEL 3 ANNEXES 2 Drive. MANAGEMENT MODEL 32 Profitable growth Profitable growth 41 People 53 Efficiency 70 Sustainability 88 Innovation Sustainability Report 2017 31 Profitable growth 32 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Current context This has been a year of change and challenges for the steel reduction of the North American market for steel and alumisector. The global production of crude steel reached 1,691.2 nium imports, which must be distributed to the rest of the Mt, which is a 5.3% increase compared to the previous year. markets. The immediate consequences will be an oversupply China continues as the first producer, then followed at a disand a very likely decrease in prices, production cuts and staff tance by Japan, India, United States and Russia. Additionally, cuts. In this context, the automotive and aeronautic sectors prices shot up, mainly in the second semester, keeping this will be the most affected by the increases in price derived trend in 2017. from these tariffs. The annual production of crude steel for Asia was of 1,162.5 The estimated production of crude steel in the CIS was of Mt, which means a 5.4% increase compared to 2016. China 102.1 Mt, staying stable compared to last year. Russia prostands out in this growth, which reached 831.7 Mt, and is duced 71.3 Mt which means a 1.3% increase. On the other 5.7% more than last year. hand, Ukraine registered a 6.4% decrease with a final figure • China continues in a restructuration process resulting from of 22.7 Mt (a figure estimated by Worldsteel) the slowdown of its economy and, in particular, in the overThe European Union (28) produced 168.7 Mt of crude steel, production of steel. In this context, at the end of 2017, which is a 4.1% increase compared to 2016. Italy stands out they announced the elimination of exportation taxes for with 24.0 Mt (2.9% increase) and Spain with 14.5 Mt (6.2% steel products for 2018, to face the continuing drop of its increase), principally in its second semester. Germany starts exports and the ¨anti-dumping¨ measures from Europe and to note a certain growth derived from its competitive advanthe US. tage, high technological level and the situation of the market • India is playing a more and more important role, as much in general. In the United Kingdom, the uncertainty due to Brebecause of the increase in its internal demand as becauxit is added. se of the increase in exportation, reaching 101.4 Mt, 6.2% The annual production of crude steel for Latin America was of more than in 2016. South Korea increased its production 43.7 Mt in 2017, which is an 8.7% increase. Brazil leads this by 3.7%, reaching 71.1 Mt. However, Japan reduced its proranking with 34.4 Mt (a 9.9% increase) and Colombia stands duction by 0.1%, reaching a total of 104.7 Mt. out, whose steel industry continues to consolidate, as does The annual production of crude steel in North America was its internal consumption. This is similar in Mexico and Chile. 116.0 Mt, which is 4.8% more than in 2016. The US reached Finally, one of the major challenges in the future will be cu81.6 Mt of crude steel, which is a 4.0% increase compared tting production and moving on to better production condito last year. tions, in which both improvements in working conditions as Nevertheless, the US continues its trade protectionism policy. well as those in production technology are included. All are In 2018 the president announced an increase in global tariffs complemented by a bigger environmental concern and more or 25% for steel and 10% for aluminium, to reactivate these and more restrictive legal requirements. (Source: global steel sectors. If this goes through, it would mean a considerable production figures Worldsteel) Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 33 Our Growth 2017 stood out for being a year with important investments and • We increased our presence in Mexico with the new Gonvarri acquisitions, which have allowed us to strengthen our position in Baja California plant. some countries and grow in others. Compared to last year, infor• In Europe, the new Laser Automotive Valencia plant stands mation about the following plants is added to the Report (102out and the new plant of Steel & Alloy, Popes Lane, is almost 49). finished. Additionally, the Constructor Group was acquired with • In China, the plants Gonvvama Shenyang (North East), Changswhich the storage and logistics business is amplified, and so hu (East) and, at the end of the year, Chongqing (West) started was the Spanish engineering company Suports, Desarollo y operations. Soluciones. Next, the new plants will be described briefly. China: Gonvvama plants In 2015, the construction of 4 new plants • Gonvvama Shenyang has a total • Gonvvama Chongqing covers a began in China, which have gradually starsurface area of 18,143 m2 built with surface area of 14,171 m2, built with ted operating since the end of 2016. warehouses, offices and accesses. Its warehouses, offices and accesses. Its All of them have cutting-edge installations production capacity is 90k tons of auto production capacity is 90k tons of auto and equipment in their blanking, laser ablaformats. formats. tion and laser welding lines. The objective Phase 1 of the project has been in opePhase 1 of the project has been in opeis to supply products to our Chinese cusration since April 2017 which comprises: ration since April 2017 which comprises tomers with the highest quality guarantee a blanking press with capacity for 1,250 of a blanking press with capacity for and the same logistic standards as in Eurotons, 2 ablation lines, one continuous 1,250 tons, 2 ablation lines, one contipe or the US. LWB line and one laser line. For 2019, nuous LWB line and one high-velocity Since its launch, expert teams from Gonthe amplification of this plant is in the laser line. varri, VAMA and Arcelormittal have moved pipeline (phase 2), with a new blanking press. • Gonvvama Loudi has a surface area to China for its startup, to convey their of 14,171 m2, built with warehouses, knowledge and way of working to the new • Gonvvama Changshu covers a suroffices and accesses. Its production cateams of Gonvvama and, by doing so, put face area of 17,663 m2, built with wapacity is 90k tons of auto formats. the four plants into operation in the best rehouses, offices and accesses. Its proPhase 1 of the project has been in opeconditions. duction capacity is 100k tons of auto ration since April 2017 which comprises We have a portfolio of international and formats. of a blanking press with capacity for Chinese customers, among which are the Phase 1 of the project has been in ope1,250 tons, 2 ablation lines, one contimain global automotive manufacturers, loration since April 2017, which comprinuous LWB line and one high-velocity cal manufacturers, and the main stamping ses of a blanking press with capacity laser line. companies. We have a collaborative agreefor 1,250 tons, 2 ablation lines, one ment with AM to be able to intervene in continuous LWB line and one Door Ring the early stages of the design of the autoproduct innovation line. In 2019 the ammobile to push our technology and assist plification of this plant is in the pipeline our customers in the use of our advanced (phase 2), with a new hybrid blanking solutions to save costs, make the vehicle press (steel and aluminium). lighter and contribute to the security. 34 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Constructor Group In 2017 Gonvarri Steel Services started Dexion was born in London at the end is specialized in all kinds of storage techthe acquisition of the Constructor Group, of the 1940s. Nowadays, with more than nology, from the most rudimentary steel closing formally the operation at the be80 years of experience, the products of shelf units to the most advanced turnkey ginning of 2018. Dexion range from simple shelf systems project, totally automatized and sophistito custom built storage solutions, dynacated. The group currently operates under the mic systems, warehousing and recovery ¨Gonvarri Material Handling¨ brand, being systems, interior designs and steel consPSS created in the United Kingdom, starone of the main European providers for tructions. ted its activity in the 70s with planned engineering and manufacturing of storage Constructor was originally founded in storage systems, until it became part of solutions. This allows us to further strenNorway in 1856. After several changes Constructor Group in 2008. PSS has algthen the business by increasing both the in the 1980s, it became Constructor and most 40 years of experience in the maexperience and the resources for its devesince then the company has grown to benufacturing of storage systems and the lopment. come the leading company in Scandinavia logistics business, being able to supply Gonvarri Material Handling operates unin storage, archiving and logistic solutions. a great range of shelf systems, through der 4 brands, as are outlined next: pallets, shelves, projecting systems and Kasten as been in the steel manufactumezzanine storage areas. ring business since 1886 in Helsinki, Finland. Nowadays, it is a market leader and Gonvarri Baja California Laser Automotive Valencia Suports Desarrollo y Soluciones Gonvarri MS Baja California started operaLaser Automotive Valencia S.L started its Suports Desarrollo y Soluciones is a Spaniting on May 2nd, 2017. Its main activity is activity in May 2017 for 3D cutting in cold sh engineering company founded in 2006 the manufacturing of solar structures for and hot stamping of automotive compothat specializes in aluminium solutions for the production of renewable (solar) energy. nents. photovoltaic installations on covers of builThe installation covers a surface area of It currently covers a productive surface dings, car parks and ground. 6,086 m2, and is strategically located in the area of 2,450 m2, with 4 identical laser With this acquisition, Suports and its Mexicity of Tijuana, bordering the US, which giunits (Trumpf TreLaser Cell 8030), which can subsidiary become an important part ves us a competitive advantage and a large gives us a productive capacity of 22,500 of the Solar structures division of Gonvarri market of operation. h/year and thus allows us to satisfy our Metal Structures. The MS Metal Steel division transforms customers’ demand in terms of quality and The workforce of Suports has highly techsteel by processing tubes and beams of on time. nical personnel focused on the developdifferent dimensions for solar parks. ment and supply of efficient solutions for the photovoltaic market. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 35 Balance 201-1 After the crisis in recent years, in 2016 we saw The main consolidated economic results are summarized below: an upturn in activity that continued into 2017. This has been the case in Europe, which is affecEconomic Value Created thousand € ted by various factors, among which, the result of Brexit and the uncertainty of future negotiations, Turnover 3,038,010 the significant increase of nationalist and EurosFinancial Income 3,995 ceptic opinions, continued attacks from ISIS and Other income 24,266 fiscal and commercial measures from the US Total EVC 3,066,271 which impact the global outlook with certain uncertainty. Economic Value Distributed thousand € However, the numerous factors that have helOperational Costs 2,708,958 ped to improve our results should also be noCAPEX 109,312 ted, among which, we stress the higher prices Payments to capital providers 13,660 of commodities (mainly energy and metals), the Taxes 77,604 establishment of new anti-dumping policies and Personnel 108,623 the moderate reduction of the production capaInvestments in the Community 1,160 city in China and the improvements and increase Total EVD 3,019,317 in sales, mainly in the automotive sector. Within this framework, Gonvarri Steel Services ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 46,954 continues to advance towards the objective to increase its international presence and to create Country The municipalities or regions value in the communities it introduces itself in. Argentine 648 in which Gonvarri has a preThis is possible thanks to a positive balance and Brazil 1,643 sence received a total of adequate financing. China 3,740 77,604 thousand euros in At the sector’s current juncture, steel has expetariffs, fees and taxes, which Colombia 1,276 rienced a very significant rebound, after various have contributed to the imSpain 747 years of strain on the sales and margins, which provement of the standard of USA 53,124 derives from the increase of the main raw maliving and the services for the Mexico 2,078 terials (especially the mineral iron and coke), as inhabitants of the area. Its disPoland 849 well as the elimination of a part of China´s instatribution by country is outlined Portugal 2,585 lled overcapacity, and the anti-dumping measuin the attached table. res against Chinese and Russian steel imposed United Kingdom 4,830 by the EU, Mexico and Canada. Czech Republic 1,245 This year, the Gonvarri plants Baja California, Russia 195 Laser Automotive Valencia and the Gonvvama Turkey 1,163 plants Shenyang (Northeast), Changshu (East) Others 2,480 and, at the end of the year, Chongqing (West) Total 77,604 all started their activity. The construction of the Steel & Alloy plant Popes Lane is about to be fiOn the other hand, the company has received economic support and subsidies nalized. Additionally, the acquisition of the Consequivalent to 2,018 thousand euros, distributed as is shown next: Arizona (13.5 tructor Group should be noted. %), Gonvarri Aluminium (71.7%), Gonvarri Valencia (7.6%), Gonvauto Galicia (6.0%) and Gonvarri MS Corporate (1.2%) (201-4). At the closing of the year, our EBITDA was 210,086 thousand euros, with a consolidated Regarding the rest of the accounting obligations, the societies that make up the net profit of 106,474 thousand euros, which GSS Group are, for the majority, obligated to perform annual audit reports on their means a net improvement of 13% compared to individual annual accounts due to the total volume of their assets, the turnover last year. and the average number of employees. Although the result is uneven in the different reAfter their approval by the corresponding body, these reports are presented in gions, they stand out as a positive way with an due time and form to the commercial register for each of their accounting periods, increase of 40% (21M€) Western Europe, 46% the legalization of their official Books and the deposits of the annual Accounts. (6M€) Gonvauto Iberia and 40% (2M€) Asia, on Additionally, the societies of the Group are up to date with their payments to the the other hand, the result of Metal Structure has General Treasury of the Social Security and their tax obligations. been negative in 228% (11M€). Finally, as is stated in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, GSS does not provide economic help to Governments (415-1). 36 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Investments The investments made this year reach a total of 109,312 thousion, where 3 new 3D laser cutting units have been incorporated sand euros, maintaining the strategy to reinforce our global preand the productive space has been increased to 4,500 m2. Posence and increase our product portfolio. land, on their part, have initiated the construction of a new builIn this context, the investment made in Gonvvama stands out, ding and the expansion of their storage building. where three new plants have been inaugurated: In Shenyang The investments in NAFTA are also noteworthy, with the expan(Northeast), Changshu (East) and Chongqing (West), joining the sion of the Puebla plant (Mexico) through the construction of a Loudi plant, which was inaugurated in 2016. All of them are wornew building that will house a new transversal line. The expanking with the new AHSS and VHSS steels sion in Union, South Carolina (US), where in the fourth trimester of Similarly, the construction of the new Steel & Alloy plant in Old2017 the project to install of a new blanking press was initiated, bury (UK) has been finalized, starting activity at the beginning of will add to the existent one at the beginning of the year. 2018, with a new blanking press and a longitudinal cutting line, At a national level, in 2017 a new society was created in which both of which enable the growth of the company in the United Gonvarri has a 51% participation to establish a new 3D laser cutKingdom. ting business in Silla, Valencia, relying initially on 3 3D laser lines. In Central Europe, the expansion of the plant in the Czech RepuThe distribution of the investments over the different divisions is blic stands out, having finalized the second phase of its expanshown next: Western Metal Iberia Central GSS Asia NAFTA LATAM Europe Structures Gonvauto Europe Corporate 22,834 3,648 1,649 49,648 17,134 11,238 2,147 1,015 Financing In 2017 the projects developed and financed by Gonvarri Steel Services have not included any clauses or commitment in Human Rights or anti-corruption practices. (412-3) Main effects, risks and opportunities 102-15 Gonvarri Steel Services is subject to various risks inherent to its the statute of internal audit, which will continue in 2018 with the activity derived from cultural and legal obligations in the counforeseeable approval of other policies such as: commercial sanctries where it operates. tions, relations with competitors and crime prevention protocol, To minimize these risks, the Internal Audit area was formally creaamong others. ted in 2016 and the new ¨Compliance Model¨ was developed to In last year, the project “Risk Map” was also started for all the improve tracking, measuring and risk control mechanisms. The Group, focused mainly on the identification of risks associated application of this model is planned initially in Spain, and it will be with our activity. In 2017, with the collaboration of the areas extended afterwards to the rest of the countries. involved, the Anti-Corruption Policy was approved and new conFor this reason, after a diagnosis of the situation, the implementrols were adapted and designed to correctly manage and minitation was started in Spain in 2017. This has led to the complemize the risks identified in relation to the corruption/fraud among tion of new policies and protocols, the design of controls and, others issues, being analyzed those actives projects in 2017 especially important, the modification of the new Code of Ethics (205-1). and Conduct of the group and the configuration of a more versatiSimilarly, we should underline the launch of a project to segregale, multi-channel Ethics Channel which guarantees the anonymity te functions into four phases: Conceptual design, operative deof its users. sign, role modification and modifications of powers of attorney, Prior to its communication and dissemination, a series of key which is expected to be finalized in 2018, given its complexity documents were approved by the Board of Directors inherent to and magnitude. the compliance model; The Code of Ethics, the Compliance Policy, The main detected risks in 2017 are outlined hereunder: the complaint channel supervising plan, the anti-fraud policy and Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 37 Risks Mitigation Opportunities Important local economic impact, Derived from possible changes in the • Application of the ¨Viability and development through the generation of new Strategic and strategic lines or the country´s situation analysis methodology¨ and external Due business opportunities (local providers environmental (political change, regulations, currency Diligences. and services), new employment depreciation, trade restrictions, etc.). • Insurance policies with companies of the first order. opportunities, economic resources for risks public administrations (taxes), etc. • Simulation of scenarios considering refinancing, Market Risks: derived from exchange rates roll-overs, alternative financing and hedging. and interest rates. • Use of hedging in purchase-sale transactions to Operating in different countries is avoid exchange rate fluctuations taking the Dollar a competitive opportunity and an Credit Risks: Derived from cash and cash as a reference. opportunity to be close to the customer, equivalents, from derivative financial which allows us to ¨compensate¨ for instruments and deposits and receivables. • Liquidity Policy and credit limits, periodically Financial Risks revised by the Board of Directors. the risks or incidences that might arise Liquidity risk: derived from sustaining in certain counties, with other sounder sufficient cash and marketable securities, • Flexibility in financing and tracking of the liquidity countries that have a profitable and availability of financing and capacity to settle reserves. sustainable growth. market positions. • Insurance to ensure collection for clients considered to have risk of default. • Initiatives for improvement, tracking, measuring and The improvement and efficiency in products and processes, allow us to Operational and Risks derived from technological or quality efficiency, as for example: the Gonvarri Production System, the quality standards (ISO 9000 and ISO-TS detect numerous opportunities to save on defects, management problems, etc. that infrastructure develop into problems in product quality, 16949), contingency plans, etc. consumption, production times, residue reduction, safety, etc. risks delivery times, etc. • Innovation projects to adapt to the market needs Innovation allows us to grow and adapt to • Broad-ranging insurance policies the customer´s needs. Local development in the places where we have presence. Social, The growth forecasts indicate that the world • Environmental Management Systems ISO 14001 and the Environmental Performance Index (EPI). population will shoot up and go beyond 10 Circular Economy: 100% recyclable steel. environmental billion (UN) mainly in developing countries. • Principle of prudency and continuous improvement Automotive Sector: development of new risks and Climate This means a more intensive use of natural through the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the safe and lighter products and increase resources, available products and services, Integrated Policy and the Sustainability Policy. of sales. Change among which are vehicles and renewable • Joint projects with customers to adapt to their needs. Development of modern and innovative 102-11 energy. • Development and Innovation. steel solar structures. Our contribution to the SDG • Integrated Policy, whose requirements and obligations are set in the management system under Through training and bidirectional Health and Derived from incorrect behavior of errors in the protection and safety mechanisms, which may the OHSAS 18001 standard. meeting, numerous improvement initiatives have been detected and put Safety risks lead to workplace accidents and even death. • Training, raising awareness, initiatives and projects to into practice. improve safety. Corporate These derive from behavior that goes against Through the undertaken analysis and Governance, the guidelines established in the human rights, • To minimize this risk, dependable Policies and Codes ethics and anti-corruption policies, which and the corresponding complaint mechanisms are diagnosis, numerous improvement actions have been detected, which allow us to ethical, fraud, and means an important economic and reputational available. minimize the risks of corruption and to risk. improve the company´s reputation. compliance Risks • Diagnosis of the information security and its risks based on the ISO 27000 standard. • Periodic system scan to detect external and internal 2017 was the year with the most frequent Data protection and largest cyberattacks all over the world. For vulnerabilities and their correction according to the Adapting to new technologies and a safer level of criticality. and confidentiality this reason, the vulnerability and security of • Measures to adapt to the new LOPD (Organic Law working culture allows us to be more information and data is an increasingly present efficient and to reduce risks. risks threat for all companies. on Protection of Personal Data) • We are training and raising employees’ awareness on prevention and protection techniques (for example: the ¨Anti-Phishing¨ campaign). 38 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Most significant risks in 2017 In 2017, Gonvarri Steel Services faced different risks which derived from the market situation in the countries it operates in, which have not had a significant global impact on the yearly results due Supply Chain to its diversification over different markets. Most significant detected risks: • The volatility of the prices of raw materials, Steel purchases which are directly influenced by the abrupt raise of iron and, to a lesser extent, of zinc, which have affected the rise of steel prices and, as a 102-9 result, on the value of the available stock in the Focused on the steel and aluminium purchasing in the Corporative plants; principally in the second semester of Department of Steel Purchases, where large volumes are negotiathe year. ted through an impartial and objective mechanism, in coordination • Shortage of supply along the distribution chain. with the need of the different divisions in terms of expected orders, While there still is an overcapacity for steel procustomer requirements and available stock. duction, fundamentally in China, the imposed The purchasing activity and management of the distribution chain anti-dumping measures in different areas such need to face the present tendencies and demand in an increasinas the European Union, Mexico and Argentina, gly global business, in which not only price, quality and delivery together with the increase of prices, have a related aspects are considered, but also the performance in ethics, negative impact on the offer and availability of compliance, sustainability, human rights, environment and health steel. and safety. • The ever-increasing pressure from the “Purchasing” is one of the 16 key processes defined by the comcustomers on price forces a narrowing of the pany and has been reviewed incorporating the new compliance margins in every step of the distribution chain. approach. For this reason, it was analyzed and revised, defining new controls to improve its management and to minimize the iden• Turkey´s situation, due to conflicts in adjacent tified risks correctly. These improvements will be operational in the countries and the migratory crisis, suffers a first trimester of 2018. limitation of its natural exportation markets. Among them, we highlight the incorporation of various questions • The volatility of some currencies in countries in the ¨supplier selection¨ phase, about compliance (ethics, anwhere we have a specific gravity (Turkish lira, ti-corruption, etc.) and sustainability (sustainability management, Argentinean peso, yuan). human rights and conflictive minerals), in addition to the already • The successive scandals related to CO2 emisexistent questions about the environment, quality and health and sions in the automotive sector and its impact safety. on diesel vehicles. During the selection process, in the case that a provider does not reach the requisite level or is unable to provide the solicited infor• The reform of the steel sector in China with the mation, the necessary improvement actions are jointly planned, so fusion of various steel companies, just as the that it can adapt, in a reasonable timeframe, to our requirements closing and restructuring of others, could affect and become part of our distribution chain. us in the future, being partners of the Hunan Valin Steel company. If the supplier does not show collaboration in the established period, or if breaches of any of our criteria are detected (proven • The ¨Brexit¨ referendum in the United Kingdom instances of child labor, forced labor, unacceptable working condiand its exit from the European Union (EU) tions, environmental damage, etc.), the established measures are forecast periods of unease in the post-Brexit applied, which may lead to exclusion as a potential GSS provider. negotiations with the potential implementation With regard to purchases for the Auto division, we should indicate of tariffs to certain industries. that in many cases the purchases come contractually predefined • The significant increase of nationalistic and by the customer, who has internally validated these in accordance Eurosceptic opinions. with their requirements. In these cases, the objective, in accordance with the IATF 16949 standard, is to supervise, track and assess. • Risks which derive from the protectionist policies of the US president, mainly related to the enforcement of steel and aluminium tariffs. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 39 Non-steel purchases Local Purchases Focused on the purchases of other auxiliary raw materials (oil, In this section the minor, non-centralized purchases made in lubricants, chemical products, etc.), other materials (packaging, plants are included. spare parts, etc.) and services (cleaning, transport, travels, etc.) These are normally carried out through local suppliers and the hothat require a structured negotiation process and the application mologation criteria are not homogeneous to the different plants, of a specified methodology due to the volume they represent. environmental and health and safety criteria being more frequentThese negotiations are mainly done through the Suppliers Portal ly applied than social or human rights criteria. to guarantee total transparency and traceability. All providers are In comparison with last year, no relevant changes have been made registered in the portal, in which they include basic information. to the distribution chain, except those that derive from the new As part of the negotiation process, the obligation to read and acoperating installation which mainly affect the availability of new cept a series of policies and procedures is made, among which is local suppliers (102-10). included the Code of Ethics and Conduct, as is the Human Rights, to transfer our values and principles to our providers. Similarly, those providers that provide products and/or services on a regular or potential basis to the Gonvarri plants, and that, due to the nature or criticality of the product/service, may have influence on the quality of the final product Gonvarri supplies to its customers, will be subject to a homologation process and a posterior reevaluation. For that matter, it is an indispensable requirement for the provider to have the ISO 9001 certification. Expenditure in local suppliers 204-1 In 2017, the total expenditure in suppliers rose to 3,120,754 thousand Total supplier’s Local supplier’s Country expenses expenses *Local % euros, from which 71% corresponds to Germany 321,260 278,174 87% local suppliers. The percentual distribuArgentina 74,164 24,111 33% tion by country is shown next. Spain 68,056 1,613,566 83% USA 1,954,143 53,467 79% *To calculate the percentage expenditure Mexico 345,175 99,255 29% on local suppliers, consideration is given to Poland 141,764 8,490 6% all those suppliers that have their corporate headquarters or commercial office in the Portugal 140,278 79,346 57% country in question. Czech Republic 7,841 6,808 87% Russia 68,073 52,800 78% Total General 3,120,754 2,216,018 71% 40 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 People Committed and connected, aiming to thrive and reach their objectives The focus on People is precisely what places Gonvarri in the hearts of its professionals and at the same time drives the feeling of pride for its work, team and company. Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 41 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations HR Network Our team In 2017, Gonvarri Steel Services team is formed of 4,872 professionals (own and external) distributed over 16 countries. The perimeter of the report adds 3,513 professionals (own) distributed over 14 countries (professionals from Senica (Slovakia), Resende (Brazil) and Pune (India) are not included) (405-1). RuSsia GERMANY PolAND 58 USA U.K. 197 98 81 194 CZECH REP. 58 PORTUGAL 83 MExico SLOVAKIA* 164 SPAIN 140 TURKEY China 1.470 258 245 INDIA* COLOMBIA BraZil* 360 258 External 255 Personnel** 898 Argentina 55 * Not included in the perimeter of the report: 140 employees in Slovakia, 63 in Resende (Brazil) and 258 in India. ** Includes the external personnel of the plants mentioned above. Main figures: Gender Age Contract Employment Turnover MEN WOMEN 30~50 YEARS permanent temporary full-timt part-time average 87% 13% 55% 84% 16% 96% 4% 19% 42 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 The enclosed table indicates the distribution of the workforce by age, profesional category and gender: MAN WOMAN Middle Plant&Office Middle Plant&Office Managers Managers Managers personnel Managers personnel >30 >30 >30 >30 >30 >30 ≤30 >50 ≤30 >50 ≤30 >50 ≤30 >50 ≤30 >50 ≤30 >50 Country years ≤50 years years ≤50 years years ≤50 years years ≤50 years years ≤50 years years ≤50 years years years years years years years Germany 0 4 0 0 23 0 31 98 14 0 0 0 0 4 0 5 15 3 197 Argentina 0 0 1 0 6 1 0 40 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 2 0 0 55 Brazil 0 1 2 1 20 1 91 118 12 0 1 0 1 3 0 18 25 3 297 China 0 12 0 0 20 2 77 94 1 0 1 0 1 4 0 10 23 0 245 Colombia 0 7 0 1 14 4 13 112 67 0 1 1 0 4 2 9 18 2 255 Spain 0 24 18 2 122 77 69 695 321 0 2 0 1 21 2 11 92 13 1,470 USA 0 1 0 1 12 3 5 41 7 0 0 0 2 2 2 3 2 0 81 Mexico 0 1 0 8 26 0 46 60 7 0 0 0 1 6 0 2 7 0 164 Poland 0 1 0 0 8 0 50 14 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 9 13 0 98 Portugal 0 1 0 0 14 4 7 29 9 0 1 0 0 4 1 0 10 3 83 U.K. 0 3 2 0 6 2 28 92 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 12 8 194 Czech R. 0 1 0 0 4 2 15 11 2 0 0 0 1 3 0 6 13 0 58 Russia 0 3 0 0 12 0 10 19 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 5 6 0 58 Turkey 0 2 1 4 17 1 55 133 27 0 0 0 0 3 0 10 5 0 258 Concerning the governing members, 67% are over 50 years old, and the remaining 33% are between 30 and 50 years old. Similarly, 67% of the governing members have the local nationality and all are men. External Personnel In 2017, a total of 664 external employees were subcontracted (631 men and 33 women). In the attached chart their distribution by country is shown: 12% Colombia Turkey 13% 7% Mexico 5% Germany 6% China, Portugal and UK Spain 54% 3% Argentina, Brazil, USA and Russia Hires Leavings Country M W Total M W Total Turnover Germany Argentina 29 4 5 3 34 7 17 3 5 1 22 4 401-1 Brazil 78 10 88 32 9 41 The average turnover rate in Gonvarri (considering China 191 38 229 27 3 30 the numbers of exits against the total workforce), Colombia 5 12 17 44 17 61 is 19%. In 2017, 1,091 new professionals became Spain 169 24 193 105 14 119 part of the company: 939 men and 152 women. USA 31 3 34 57 5 62 34% of the hirings are related to the launch of the Mexico 148 13 161 69 5 74 new plants in China and Baja California. Poland 28 6 34 25 1 26 On the other side, 684 people left the company Portugal 9 3 12 7 0 7 (587 men and 97 women). Their distribution by U.K. 31 3 34 21 3 24 gender and country is shown in the table: Czech R. 42 16 58 34 22 56 Russia 5 3 8 11 1 12 Turkey 169 13 182 135 11 146 939 152 1,091 587 97 684 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 43 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Attraction and HR Network retention of talent Gonvarri Steel Services is aware that the development experts, in a pleasant work environment, is a key aspect and future of the company depend on the commitment to grow as a competitive, reliable and sustainable comand work of its team. For this reason, having a strategy pany. that allows us to rely on trained, qualified and motivated 1 Hiring The search for the best fit for the position. 2 Training and skills development Training mechanisms adapted to the personnel. 3 Job security to show trust in the team Job stability and in long-term relations. 4 Performance review Objective assessment of their development and promotion. 5 Internal Promotion Career development and talent recognition. Mobility opportunities between countries. In 2017, the workforce consists of 83.7% permanent contracts and 16.3% temporary contracts. The case of Gonvvama China stands out, where there are no permanent contracts until two temporary periods have been completed in the same company, and, as the plants have started operating last year, the percentage of permanent contracts is very low. The gender, contract and country distribution is set out below (102-8): CONTRACT EMPLOYMENT Permanent Temporary Full-time Part-time Country M W M W M W M W Germany 96 22 74 5 169 20 1 7 Argentina 46 6 2 1 48 6 0 1 Brazil 239 50 7 1 177 42 69 9 China 8 1 198 38 206 39 0 0 Colombia 211 35 7 2 218 37 0 0 Spain 1,205 135 123 7 1,297 138 31 4 USA 70 11 0 0 70 10 0 1 Mexico 147 17 0 0 147 17 0 0 Poland 40 8 33 17 73 25 0 0 Portugal 50 16 14 3 64 19 0 0 U.K. 135 21 38 0 171 12 2 9 Czech Republic 35 23 0 0 35 23 0 0 Russia 46 11 0 1 46 12 0 0 Turkey 240 18 0 0 240 18 0 0 2,568 374 496 75 2,961 418 103 31 44 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Internal promotion HR Network The internal promotion is a fundamental measure to tranet noticeboard. In addition to the vacancies covered achieve the satisfaction of our employees through caby this process, there have been 44 internal promotions reer development and talent recognition, as the human throughout the group, with which it contributes to imteam is the most important asset of the company. proving the satisfaction and motivation of our profesWhen a specific position needs to be filled, then, the vasionals. cancy is published internally via a Job Posting on the inINTERNAL PROMOTION SCHEME 2017 Publication of 9 vacancy Direct in the intranet ”Job Posting” promotion Candidate Analysis Interviews 44 References promotions 2 closed 3 processes 4 not covered 2 internal in progress internally promotions 4 processes of Training and Development external selection GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Performance Performance assessment At Gonvarri we have an objective-based evaluation centraliBased on the results goals and improvement measures are zed system at the institutional level through the “ETWeb” plaestablished, which impact on the quality of work and the emtform, so that the experts can keep up with their performance ployee`s satisfaction. and know what is expected from them. This system is applied Additionally, some plans have implemented their own perin all our installations, except in Turkey and Baja California formance evaluation systems; with which more than 2,000 where its implementation is planned for 2018. (404-3). employees have been evaluated,, covering in many cases assess 100% of the staff, factory workers included, with a methodology adapted to their activity, measuring parameters such as polyvalence in the position. 171 Brazil Spain 27 Portugal U.K. Germany Russia Argentina China Colombia USA Mexico Poland 20 14 Czech R. 12 9 10 11 13 6 9 8 317 7 people 50 Women 267 Men Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 45 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Training and Awareness Development and training QUALITY EDUCATION Our priority is to have training mechanisms and plans to know and train all personnel, adapted to the different levels of the company. The following table details the distribution 4.4 Target by country, gender and category (404-1): By 2030, substantially Men Women increase the number of Middle Plant&Office Middle Plant&Office youth and adults who Country Managers Managers Managers personnel Managers personnel have relevant skills, Germany 240 320 5,977 120 160 1,327 including technical and Argentina 12 960 1,600 46 70 0 vocational skills, for Brazil 93 1,276 6,509 79 180 1,112 employment, decent jobs China 672 1,861 5,275 30 427 793 and entrepreneurship Colombia 252 1,704 17,578 220 791 2,680 Gonvarri continues to grow Spain 12,262 0 0 0 0 0 and increase its presence USA 1,474 7,926 26,585 97 1,506 3,227 in different countries. For Mexico 46 659 8,718 0 191 521 this reason, to have trained and qualified young people Poland 447 6,105 9,133 0 1,230 4,648 available, to whom we Portugal 0 965 819 29 223 125 offer opportunities and U.K. 67 377 7,036 0 0 386 stable and paid work, is Czech Republic 0 129 433 0 106 213 fundamental to advance in Russia 400 407 625 0 32 289 a sustainable way. Turkey 80 340 5,105 0 67 120 16,045 23,029 95,393 621 4,982 15,441 Regarding the Code of Ethics (which includes Human RiThe first edition was done in Spain with a total of 20 ghts and anti-corruption), in 2017 a total of 528.5 training participants and with an average final grade of 4.5 out hours were completed, 520 on-site and 8.5 online, the latof 5. The academy, depending on its results, will be exter all in Spain (205-2 y 412-2). tended to other countries. Their distribution is shown next: • Leadership of Tomorrow Program: in November 2017, the first module of the ¨Gonvarri Program: Leaders of tomorrow¨ was held, organized by Gonvarri and the 1% Poland Mexico Financial Times / IE Business School Corporate Learning 2% Spain 39% Alliance. The aim of the program is to improve the performance and leadership of the members of the Executive Committee so they can inspire others to achieve the Colombia transformation that Gonvarri needs to reach its vision. 26% In this first module, which was held in the IE Business School, 49 participants attended. During this course, various tests, case-studies, coaching sessions, etc., were carried out, and a personal and individualized plan for each member was made. The second module will be Czech Rep. conducted in 2018. 32% • Gonvarri Leadership Program (GLP): The biennial Gonvarri Leadership Program (GLP), started its second edition in 2017, with 40 experts of 11 different natioWithin the training programs completed in 2017, we highlinalities attending. Done internally by key experts of the ght the following (404-2): company and the Business School, 4 of the planned 8 • Plant Supervisor Academy: Oriented to reinforce and sessions were held in 2017. specialize in the supervisor´s functions to reach optimal operative performance, centered in change management, to transform a manager into a team leader. 46 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Mobility Labour Relations We are a company that is in constant growth, which so-called ¨start-up teams¨, in charge of transferring exmeans we have the need to fill vacancies in other counperience and corporate culture to the company´s new tries, and we therefore frequently offer expat positions plants in the different countries, and responsible for trato fill these vacancies. At the same time, we also offer ining the new experts. relocation opportunities with a determined duration for RUsSIA Germany Germany EXPATRIATE 4 3 5 30 USA 5 CHINA 9 PORTUGAL TURkey S.CAROLINA 1 czech R. 1 2 displaced 29 4 CHINA 22 COLOMBIA 2 ARGENTINA 1 Work Relations Gonvarri support the rights to association, union repreIn those countries where there is no applicable agreesentation and collective bargaining of all its employees, ment, either a ¨Handbook¨ where the working condiin accordance with the regulations in each country tions of the employees are compiled is available, or the (102-41). legal obligations and requirements of the country are applied. Sectoral collective agreements or similar Handbook arrangements 4% 66% Local employment regulations 30% No centers nor significant providers were detected in the operating facilities in which the freedom to association, and the right to reach collective agreements could be violated or threatened. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 47 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Diversity GSS Culture In Gonvarri we believe that the heterogeneity of the Diversity in numbers people and their distinct contribution give us an un405-1 questionable competitive advantage. The perspective and way of thinking of experts from different origins MEN WOMEN help us to achieve positive change in the organization, in the working methods and to increase our innovation Gender 87% 13% capacity and the capacity to respond to this demanding market. Employees of 98% 96% The Diversity management is a commitment to the local origin 100%: Argentina, Brazil, 100%: Germany, Argentina, Mexico, Portugal and U.K. Colombia, Mexico, Poland, people the organization is made up of. ¨The Diversity Portugal, U.K., Czech Republic, 99%: China, Colombia yand Turkey. Program¨ incorporates and coordinates this variable Russia y Turkey. 97%: Alemania and Poland. within the organization through policies, processes 98%: Brazil. 96%: Spain. 95%: China. and dissemination and awareness actions. 94%: Czech Republic. 92%: Spain. 93%: USA and Russia. 82%: USA Employees 91 9 with different capacities Spain Spain 60% 66,7% In 2017, the ¨Women of Steel¨ project was started, with the objective to sensitize and raise awareness for Equality between women and men, and the necessity Brazil 33,3% to break with old sexist paradigms. Next year we will summarize the goals achieved. Germany Turkey 7,5% 17,5% In addition it is planned to perform awareness semiBrazil 15% nars and talks on gender equality. Work climate survey Gonvarri Steel Services is interested in the opinion of its emThe survey revolved around 9 segments: commitment, cultuployees, their level of satisfaction and motivation. For this re, innovation and change management, communication, traireason, in 2017 the corresponding biannual ¨Work climate¨ ning and development, organization of work, leadership style, survey was conducted. remuneration and health and safety. This year the participation has been higher than in 2015, reaRegarding the assessment of the results, all segments ching 64.5% against 62.58% in the previous survey. 34 censhowed a more negative appraisal and perception by the emters (plants and offices) participated and the higher participaployees, except in the ¨Commitment¨ segment, which had a tion of the collective ¨plants¨ stood out, against the collective higher appraisal than in 2015. ¨office¨ which has fallen. Work climate survey Scope Countries Participation rate: 34 centers 15 64.5% + Top rated topics: Worst rated subjects: · Health and Safety · Retribution · Commitment. · Training and development · Innovation and change management “Growing Together” For those aspects that need to improve, new improvement initiatives were integrated in the ¨Growing Together¨ project. 48 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Health of our team GSS Culture The overall well-being of our employees is fundamental For this reason, in most plants employees are encourato having healthy, happy and committed teams. We are ged to improve their physical condition, and also to paraware that the ¨Healthy Companies¨ are more competiticipate in various sportive events, generally with a betive, people are more satisfied and, moreover, generate neficial component, to raise funds for any social project. a positive impact helping to reduce healthcare costs. MADRID GONVAUTO BARCELONA Steel&Alloy Rock´N´Roll Marathon Cyclism: 2nd Edition of the 24h Birmgham Half Marathon and the Companies race, in MADFORM BiCircuit and Walked the Great which personnel from all plants in Montmelo, Catalonia. Wall of China in Spain collaborated. Poland Business Run Gonvarri Polonia Gonvarri Valencia Valencia has an athletics squad ¨Ferro Runners¨ with which it has participated in: Hiasa Solidary Steel Race, Gran Fons Ciutat de Sagunt, 10K Valencia, the Half Marathon and Full Marathon of Valencia, the Race for Breast Cancer, Gonvauto Navarra Solidary race ¨con otra mirada¨, and the Valencia Solidary cycling race companies race. organized by VW Gonvarri Tarragona Hiasa Possibility to attend the sport Torneo de paddle GONVARRI KALUGA and leisure facilities of ¨Estival and futbol on Friday Subsidy of 50% of Park¨ with the family. afternoons the cost of the gym for employees Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 49 Program In the Madrid offices, the program “Be healthy!” was started in 2017. In a bid for an integral and strategic management of the wellbeing of the employees through the development of three pillars: Sport Nutrition Social Welfare Promoting physical activity and Encouraging correct eating habits Assertive communication or the avoiding sedentary behavior through through a healthy diet. promotion of positive habits have been different initiatives such as: In April the ¨Be Healthy! ¨ week was developed to avoid psychosocial risks Raising awareness for the benefits held, with different activities oriented through auto management of emotions. of physical activity through lecturing to the dissemination of good eating Among others, activities about cards, workshops like the ¨Paleo traihabits. Similarly, awareness talks and psycho-emotional care and courses ning workshop¨ to improve the corporal healthy fruit tasting were done throufocused on keeping a positive outlook posture and general physical fitness of ghout the entire year. on life were held. each participant, speeches by experts focused on values and sport and theoretical-practical sessions about the benefits of Pilates to health. Additionally, employees´ participation in races and sport events is encouraged. Actividad Física Actívate tenemos en cuen ta vida. Si además activa alarga la activos podemos Llevar una vida ifica que siendo r, bienestar, sign ad de vida. Es deci que aumenta el ranz a y calid mejora en la espe disfrutar de una or. vivir más y mej ismo ! a el sedentar ianamente, evit Se activo cotid n depo rte y!, practica algú Move your bod erada idad física mod realiza una activ a habitual: empieza poco a de form icio logres hacer ejerc poco hasta que de 1 ana en sesiones 3 veces por sem a la semana en hora o 5 veces tos. minu sesiones de 30 mejor! Acompañado, con la ejercicio físico Intenta realizar del o con tus colegas familia, amigos trabajo. Al menos cam ina… de 30 a 60 a diaria. Camina inar en tu rutin los días Incorpora el cam sa la mayoría de a moderada a inten minutos de form de la semana. ición física. a tu edad y cond ejercicio adecuado idas para realizar Y recuerda, haz ués de las com a dos horas desp Deja pasar de una ejercicio. 50 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Training and Development GSS Culture Compensation and Benefits Performance HR Network Labour Relations Compensation and Benefits Social Benefits and settlement Gonvarri Steel Services is a diverse company, where social benefits are not homogeneous but adapted to the characteristics of the different plants and countries. In any case, to the workers there are no significant differences between benefits offered to part-time workers and those offered to full-time workers. The social benefits in the different facilities and countries are outlined next (401-2): Germany Spain Provides canteen contributions and yearly vaccination Provides life and disability insurance. The medical against the flu. Additionally, economic ”Health bonuinsurance, canteen contributions, nursery and transses” are given to employees that do not get sick in a portation contributions can be issued through private trimester, as well as “Babythings”, such as vouchers for coverage through the Flexible Retribution Plan (FRP), each birth, plus subsidies for private pensions and exwith which the tax benefits established by the Law can tra weekend shift vouchers. be accessed. Gifts are also given for different reasons, such as births, Christmas baskets and a Christmas lunch in which a raffle with various prizes is included. Argentina Burgos has a company bus, Tarragona provides its worProvides medical insurance, canteen and transportakers with the possibility to enjoy the installation of the tion contributions. Additionally, it gives presents for ¨Estival Park¨; Barcelona encourages sports an offers births, “Women´s day”, Spring day and, at the Christa subscription to a platform that gives discounts to all mas dinner, it includes a Christmas basket and the paremployees and offers yearly fuel tickets. ticipation in raffles. Brazil USA Provides medical insurance and life insurance that inProvides life and disability insurance, medical insurancludes partial or permanent disability coverage. Furce including dental insurance, canteen and transportathermore, in Arizona, gifts are given for different reation contributions. sons such as: births, Christmas dinner in which a raffle with prizes and Christmas boxes is included, longer China maternity/paternity leaves and other celebrations such Provides life insurance and canteen contributions. The as Easter and children´s day, with cinema tickets and plant of GVS has housing for the workers that wish so snacks for the children of the employees. available or contributes to the accommodation and its expenses (water, electricity, etc.) for those who live Mexico outside the facilities. Additionally, it includes benefits Provides life and disability insurance, medical insurance, for the relatives that visit the employees during the canteen and transportation contributions and longer weekends (free transport, etc.). maternity/paternity leaves. In Puebla, social benefits are collected in the ¨employee Pension Plan¨, in which Colombia various initiatives are incorporated, such as: food vouProvides a canteen in which the company finances chers, major medical expenses insurance, saving funds, part of the food. Additionally, the ¨Working Welfare in-kind paternity/maternity assistance, scholarships, Plan¨ has been established, in which numerous iniminor medical expenses insurance, accident insurance, tiatives are collected based on the needs and motimarriage or death grants. vations of the employees. This plan is carried out in conjunction with the Family Welfare Fund and with Poland providers and external bodies that contribute to the Provides life insurance and medical insurance (for perdevelopment of cultural, psychological, medical and manent employees) environmental spheres of our employees. Similarly, so with the participation of the Pension Funds through the activity ¨Day of Agreements¨. In this space the pension funds advise our employees about all that is related to the obligatory and voluntary pensions and closing pension gaps. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 51 Portugal Czech Republic Provides medical insurance (families included), canteen Pprovides canteen contributions and an award system and transportation contributions. Additionally, gifts are for ¨Ideas for Improvement”. given for different reasons, such as: births, Christmas dinner in which a raffle with prizes is included, Christmas baskets, a gift for children under 12 and a present Russia in Easter. Provides life and disability insurance, medical insurance, canteen and transportation contributions. Additionally, it finances 50% of the cost of the gym for employees. United Kingdom Provides life and disability insurance, medical insurance (applicable to white collar) and canteen contributions. Turkey Additionally, it participates and finances in the CycleProvides canteen and transportation contributions. plus/cycle2work scheme. From 2018 on, they will provide medical insurance for all its employees. Christmas lunch ant the headquarters, in Madrid. Pension Funds and/or retirement plans Settlement 201-3 401-2 and 401-3 These are only available in some countries, either because of The maternity and paternity leaves in 2017 corresponded to 66 obligations derived from local regulations or for being long-stanmen and 26 women, of whom 95% of the men and 65% of the ding commitments. These types of pension funds are provided women have already been reincorporated. in the United Kingdom and South Carolina; similarly, retirement In the offices there is a flexible entry time, adjusting the exit time plans are provided in Arizona and, on a voluntary base, in the and lunch times accordingly. In plants, where the work is condiUnited Kingdom. Gonvauto Barcelona has a partial retirement tioned to the needs of the customers and is done in determined plan included in the 2017 – 2022 Company Pact. shifts, flexibility and the necessary adjustments are arranged inEither way, these are very sporadic situations and of little reledividually. vance to the company. 52 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Efficiency Reaching our objectives with less effort and costs Efficiency may be described as the ability to achieve a desired effect with the minimum possible resources. In an increasingly complex and competitive world, we can only ensure the profitable growth of our organization by doing things better. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 53 New efficiency model SGI Within the frame of the current Strategy Plan 2016rri’s Production System) and BTM (Business Technology 2018, Gonvarri Steel Services has committed to the reManagement) areas. It has two objectives: organization of its system of continuous improvement 1. To establish robust working techniques that will and the core knowledge management of the company. prevent the culture and the “know-how” becoming The trigger was identifying a critical risk related to dispersed or lost, and to make them available to the the difficulty in knowledge retention or the alterations whole of the company. needed when transferred to other cultures or ways of 2. To ensure its continuous improvement in the futuworking. re by providing our employees with a safe setting, The Integrated Management System (SGI) was creawhich is both environmentally friendly and professioted to mitigate the risk and is the result of merging the nally enriching. Health and Safety, Environment, Quality, SPG (GonvaThe model is described throughout the chapter. Excellence Continous Improvement 1. Strategic 1. Testing planning, business and calibration 5. SPG: Standarization & Efficiency development, budget Logistics 2. Documentation management 2. Monitoring & 4. 3. Communication & operational control information systems 6. Customer claims management Production 4. Maintenance 3 Management 3. Quality of financials Programming 5. Support of the system 2. 6. Human resources 4. Management review Procurement process & Supply Chain 7. Technical suport, engineering & construction 5. New contracts & 1. project launching Offers & Price 8. Communication Upgrading Strategic Operational Support Processes Processes Processes Environment Safety People Involvement & Empowerment 54 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Key Processes BTM In 2017, the BTM team has built most of the 16 Key protion. BTM is also leading the alignment of IT with this cesses of our business, those in which, in addition to ganew plan. thering our differentiating knowledge, compliance could In 2017, 3 key processes have been launched (Steel-reresult in economic, operational or reputational damage to lated Purchases, Quotation Management and Trade Risk) the company. (102-15) and, practically, the construction of another 5 processes For this, 16 working groups have been created, with has been finalized. Next year, the display and the shifting approximately 150 Gonvarri professionals who best unof BTM’s team to all the companies will be supported in derstand the business, the representatives from all the accordance with the already approved planning. countries, the companies and the roles of the organiza1 Steel Purchasing 9 Map of Audits 2 Management of offers 10 Integration of Brownfields 3 Scrap Management 11 Establishment of Greenfields 4 Inventories Management 12 Development of People 5 Customer Satisfaction 13 People Management 6 Approval flows 14 Roles & Responsibilities 7 Cash Management 15 Business Risk Management 8 Commercial Risk Management 16 Operational Notifications MONITORING Follow-up of the implementation through SCI Reg Mgers REMOTE CONTROL ALERTS Alert tool (skywind) to verify the execution of rules (SAP companies). STANDARD SUPPORT Training sessions and on-site launching and checking for certain processes. EXTENDED SUPPORT Training and launching sessions. Recurring on-site check-up and/or several processes Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 55 Health and Safety DMA Gonvarri’s Health and Safety Model is based on the inGonvarri has opted to go further, implementing a series tegration of safety within the entire organization and in of corporate procedures with the purpose to have a preall its decision-making, as well as in all processes that ventive culture with a distinct identity, which is far more are undertaken. In addition, it complies with the internademanding than international standards and whereby tional rules OHSAS 18001, having almost all of our censafety is the main protagonist. ters certified under this standard by an accredited body. This new via of higher commitment to safety was launThe roles and responsibilities regarding health and safeched in 2011 with the plan “A step forward” and in ty are integrated into the entire organizational structure 2014 a specific Axis on Health and Safety within the of the company; the plant managers being the most resglobal Strategy plan of GSS was opened. ponsible for the health and safety of employees. Furthermore, the “Evaluation of Occupational Risks”, in In each plant, there are workers with advanced training which the various risks to which workers are exposed on the matter which are appointed to manage health are identified and quantified, is updated and revised and safety. In accordance with the size of the plant and whenever the changes in working conditions or the conits needs, they either have exclusivity to develop occuclusions of the investigations of incidents and accidents pational health and safety, or they share this activity require so. In 2017, 9 job positions and 117 employees with others. The work of health surveillance and control exposed to these risks were identified in Gonvarri Cois externalized, relying on different health services in aclombia. Every year emergency drills are carried out in cordance with local legislation in this regard. the plants, to be prepared for possible incidents that may occur, such as fires or spillages, aerial rescues and evacuations. New Health and Safety Plan “Doing Well by doing Safe” After several years with a significant reduction in the rate or accidents, in 2017 Gonvarri has decided to accelerate employee awareness on Health and Safety. 1 Technology (CAPEX) Behavior Equipment legal requirements 2 Leadership Management Accountancy Work instructions (System) Protection devices Attitude PPE Interdependence Accident rate External certification 3 Hazard identification Culture Qualificaton (people) Standard Work Documentary system Time The Safety Plan “Doing Well by doing Safe” defines new measures related to culture, but also helps to reinforce the concept: “Stop› Think> Act”, conveying that a correct action is one that is done with the safety of each individual, in each activity carried out, in each decision that is adopted, or in each project or new job that is undertaken. 56 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 For its implementation and dissemination, numerous initiatives were developed, among which the following stand out: Safety Tips A series of interactive videos about main risk awareness in our activities, available to all employees, both Chasing risks on the corporate intranet as well as in the display screens in all the factories. Workshops on lines and specific areas, whose objective is the participation and involvement of the employees in the identification of risks and the establishment of preventive measures. The pilot workshop, carried out in Gonvarri Tarragona, allowed to fine-tune the methodology. External diagnosis of preventive culture: Mandatory for all plants, in 2017 it was carried out in all Iberia plants, except for Hiasa. As a result, a series of improvement measures were defined, customized and adapted to the needs of each center. CCTV or closed-circuit television focused on the use of recorded images solely for the investigation of accidents or incidents, and the training of personnel. The pilot installation has been carried out in Gonvauto Navarra. “One to one”: improves the commitment of floor managers and department heads, with a new focus: insAdvanced Training for Managers: tead of carrying out, as up to now, regular inspections With the collaboration of Dupont Sustainable Solutions, of the safety conditions in the different working areas, on September 20th, the first specialized training on with a “negative” point of view, it´s objective now is to Leadership and CultureDevelopment on safety matters observe, redirect and educate the behavior of employees was organized for all managers in Western Europe. The according to an always assertive, interactive and motivatraining will be extended to the other Gonvarri centers. tional approach, and not coercive. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 57 Health and Safety Main indicators Day in Gonvarri 403-2 In 2017, there were a total of 95 accidents requiring leave and another 344 without leave. We have to regret the death of a worker in Germany. The 28 of April, all Gonvarri Steel Services factories The following table summarizes this information: celebrated the “World Occupational Health and Safety Day”. ACCIDENTS ACCIDENTS The main milestone of this celebration was the WITH LEAVE WITH OUT LEAVE launch and joint presentation in all countries of the Country M W M W New Health and Safety Plan ‘Doing Well by Doing Own Personnel 80 3 263 7 Safe’. External Personnel 12 0 73 1 The focus of the main activities carried out reinfor92 3 336 8 ces the importance of being aware of the existing risks in our activities. Among others, these stand out: Below are the accident rates in each of the countries where the company • The delivery of leaflets, placement of roll-ups operates in: and posters. • The presentation of the first Safety Tips video. ACCIDENTS Own External WITH LEAVE Personnel Personnel • The instructions for downloading and viewing Country M W M W the App. Germany 61.3 43.7 0.0 0.0 • Talks and activities related to the risk situaArgentina 34.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 tions existing daily. Brazil 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 • The presentation of testimonies about acciChina 24.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 dents and how they have changed the way to look at safety in those affected. Colombia 5.9 0.0 3.7 0.0 Spain 15.1 0.0 7.7 0.0 USA 0.0 0.0 8.2 0.0 Mexico 3.61 36.9 10.3 0.0 ¿Do you know the Poland Portugal 8.7 50.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 new PPEs’ chart? olleagues U.K. 2.7 0.0 30.7 0.0 For you and all your c Czech Republic 33.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Turkey 13.0 0.0 16.0 0.0 13.99 3.90 7.99 0.00 Rate: No. of accidents with medical leave x 1,000,000 / No. of hours worked. ACCIDENTES Personal Personal Safety cap SIN BAJA propio ajeno must be worn Ear protection must be worn Country H M H M Germany 157.2 65.5 68.2 0.0 Argentina 58.1 0.0 2,564.1 0.0 Brazil 16.5 0.0 85.6 0.0 China 28.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Eye protection Colombia 5.9 0.0 29.4 0.0 must be worn Safety sleeves must be worn Spain 73.7 7.9 55.1 0.0 USA 69.4 0.0 167.7 0.0 Mexico 21.7 0.0 51.6 131.7 Poland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Portugal 50.7 31.8 34.1 0.0 Hand protection must be worn Foot protection U.K. 37.8 0.0 61.4 0.0 must be worn Czech Republic 16.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Russia 21.6 0.0 284.6 0.0 Turkey 16.3 0.0 10.7 0.0 46.0 9.2 48.6 22.5 Rate: No. of accidents without medical leave x 1,000,000 / No. of hours worked. 58 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 The notable increase in the activity of our plants has made it difficult to carry out safety training activities beyond those required by our standards. In addition, with respect to the previous year, the impact of the reinforcement of the commitment of our teams is still not seen. Regarding occupational diseases (403-3), in 2017 there were 5 occupational diseases in men / own staff, so the average rate is 0.000001 (number of occupational diseases among hours worked). Days lost per accident Days lost through unplanned The accidents registered led to a loss of 8,117 absence working days, 99.8% corresponding to men, and In 2016 a total of 34,738 days were lost throu0.2% to women. gh unplanned absence, 87.9% corresponding to men and 12.1% to women. Below is detailed the average rate of days lost per occupational accident and employee. The average rate of days lost per employee per country is set out in the following table: Days lost per Days lost per Own accident + Own accident personnel other causes personnel Unplanned absence Country M W Country M W includes hours lost Germany 23.51 0.00 Germany 24 0.0 through illness or common Argentina 0.23 0.00 Argentina 1.99 6.3 contingency, medical Brazil 0.01 0.00 Brazil 5.4 2.54 appointments, special and China 0.09 0.00 China 0.6 0.1 official leave, late arrival Colombia 0.23 0.00 Colombia 2.0 0.4 or early departure, official Spain 0.72 0.00 Spain 8.64 11.6 attendance at trade union USA 0.00 0.00 USA 2.5 0.0 meetings and strikes. Mexico 0.25 0.66 Mexico 0.4 1.2 Poland 0.05 0.00 Poland 71. 12.2 Portugal 0.38 0.00 Portugal 6.55 0.1 U.K. 0.02 0.00 U.K. 0.0 0.0 Czech Republic 1.62 0.00 Czech Republic 3.2 0.0 Russia 0.00 0.00 Russia 0.0 0.0 Turkey 0.20 0.00 Turkey 0.2 0.0 1.44 0.02 5.4 5.2 Rate: (No. of days lost due to occupational accidents Rate: (No. of days lost due to other causes x 1,000) / No. of hours worked. + days lost due to occupational accidents x 1,000) / No. of hours worked. Monitoring and At Gonvarri, the measures and obligations established for our employees are also applicable to any external companies that access our work evaluation of centers. Subcontractors: To ensure that before starting any work, the training, experience and qualifications of any worker of the external company are adequate CTAIMA and also to check the level of compliance with the legislation by these companies, a CTAIMA tool is available, currently applicable to Iberia. Its objective is the coordination and documentary exchange with external companies, to guarantee compliance with the information requirements and control of: contractors, subcontractors, ETTs, transporters, etc. To allow access to the plant based on the compliance of these companies and that of their workers, with the provisions of our corporate policies and local legislation. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 59 Training and communication Training Communication 404-1 Training and awareness is a fundamental part of our safety Gonvarri Steel Services has established various channels of culture. The organization has identified the training needs that communication to facilitate a two-way flow, allowing for direct apply to each job so that each worker who performs it can comparticipation and information on the part of all in-house and explete a comprehensive training course that guarantees global ternal staff as regards health and safety issues. knowledge of the position. This training must be updated every At each plant, Management meet up each month with the Exethree years. cutive Committee, to monitor the System (Programmes, Plans, In 2017, 33,231 hours of health and safety training were taught, etc.) and to prioritise the most significant aspects, in a swift, which is around 9 hours per employee. Poland stands out with an transparent and integrated manner. average ratio of 62 hours per employee. In accordance with the characteristics and culture of each country, periodic monitoring meetings are also staged with the workers’ representatives. Likewise, daily meetings of 5 minutes of the working groups are held where , the first topic always addressed being “Security”. Meanwhile, quarterly Health and Safety Committee meetings are held. The constitution and number of risk prevention officers in Spain is established in the applicable legislation (Chapter V of Occupational Risk Prevention Act 31/1995), being a joint committee which consists of equal numbers divided among social part and workers designated by the company. In all other countries, as this is not a legal requirement, their characteristics correspond to local needs. In any event, one of the aims is to address aspects connected with health and safety and to mitigate potential risks or occupational accidents for 100% of employees (403-4). For several years at GSS we have been involved in safety awaAll the plants have prevention delegates, whose composition is reness, not only for employees, but also for their families through summarized below (403-1): various activities such as guided visits, drawing competitions for the little ones, days with different activities for the family, etc. Country Representatives Germany 11 Argentina 11 Brazil 5 China 33 Colombia 8 Spain 45 México 21 Poland 7 Portugal 8 U.K. 10 Czech Republic 5 Russia 8 Turkey 12 In the USA due to changes in staff, the Committees have not been operational. 60 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Environment The commitment of Gonvarri Steel Services to the enviIn addition, within our commitment to correctly measuronment starts with the certification of the Environmenre and minimize the impact of our activities, initiatives tal Management System under the ISO 14001 stanare being developed with two areas of action: advanced dard, currently certified in 69% of our factories. Pending environmental risk management and a life cycle focus. certification are the Gonvauto South Carolina, Gonvarri The information related to energy, efficiency and climaCzech, Laser Automotive Barcelona, Valencia and Brante change is within the sustainability chapter. denburg factories, as well as the new factories in China and Baja California. Advanced management Waste management: of Environmental Risk RAD-Hiasa Project In order to adopt a proactive and preventive position regarding The R+D+I project “RAD”, originated with environmental impacts, in 2017 Gonvarri began to deploy a new the objective of regenerating and recoveenvironmental reporting methodology, based on the Sygris software, ring the residual water from the pickling line with the following components: to reduce the waste coming from it, for its • Incident reports: All environmental incidents are reported, paramereuse within the process. terized by cause, origin, nature, specific location by machine and The project is being developed in collaboration relevant area. A subsequent objective analysis of the specific recuwith an external consultant. rrence of machine and/or zone facilitates the adoption of preventi• To reduce or even eliminate the spill into the ve solutions that eliminate or mitigate the impact. Alvares river. • Air and water emissions: all analytical values are monitored, which • To reduce the consumption of water are then compared with spills and/or equivalent emissions from necessary for the pickling process and other plants in the group, which allows us to observe trends and minimize the costs associated with the mainstream the best practices available internally. management of this spill, and, with it, the • List of consumables with waste as risk control: the ratios generated elimination of the spilling fee. by these consumables allow us to determine if the incidents reporIt began in August 2017 and will be finished in ted were all that actually happened. early 2018. The cost of the project is 58,600€ • Centralized report of the legal requirement of the waste register: and the savings are estimated to be 100,000 this register, in addition to providing us with information on the € / year. As of next year, these results will be amount of waste generated, also allows us to know the total cost compared. of its management Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 61 Life Cycle Focus: Circular Economy On the 2nd of December 2015, the European Commission (EC) adopted a new package to boost Europe´s transition towards a “circular economy”, that will boost global competitiveness, promote sustainable economic growth and create new jobs. The objective is to achieve a transition towards a more solid and circular economy, closing the circle where resources are being used more sustainably. The proposals cover the whole life cycle, from production and consumption to waste management (reuse, recycle and recover) including the market of secondary raw materials, in a closed cycle, as opposed to the former model of “produce, use and throw away”. Among the established objectives, it is to prohibit the accumulaFor that reason, practically 100% of the products manufactured tion of recyclable waste in landfill sites. For this, it is necessary by Gonvarri Steel Services are fully recyclable, notably reducing that the waste is “traceable”, and that the necessary infrastructhe environmental impact at the end of their useful lives and contures are guaranteed to collect, classify, condition and recycle in tribute to closing the circle. optimum conditions. We are aware of the need to preserve resources; therefore, the In this framework, due to its characteristics, steel plays a fundaprocesses have been optimized so that both machinery and cutmental role. ting designs take maximum advantage of the steel sheets, being efficient in consumption, reducing the generation of waste, minimizing environmental impact whilst always maintaining high Steel standards of product quality. Steel, thanks to its capability to recover its original properties wiIn terms of consumables, in 2017 the following initiatives were thout losing quality after melting, is the most recycled material in launched: the world. Its recycling leads to savings of up to 85% of water, • Analysis of the waste flow: reuse, recycle and recover. 80% of energy and 95% of coal, avoiding the emission of almost • All waste is linked to the consumables of origin with which we two tons of greenhouse gasses, per ton of steel. In fact, steels can work on increasing the life cycle of our consumables (for that are still part of the current production process were originally example, by reducing consumption), as well as benchmarking produced in the 19th century. (Source: UNESID). alternatives for reusing and recycling global wastes. • The life cycle ratios provide a joint vision of the group´s environmental performance, allowing the identification of possible global objectives, as well as investments to mainstream solutions or R+D+I projects. • The environmental performance of production ratios provides us with ideas on how to make unit consumption more efficient. 62 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Our product and Hydrochloric acid Circular Economy recovery The production processes of Gonvarri Steel Services are intensive in the use of Our galvanizing and pickling processes require steel (98% of the total consumption) since it is the main component of all our the use of significant amounts of hydrochloric products, followed by aluminum and wood. acid. This acid is bought with a concentration Regarding the consumption of hazardous products, this is only substantial in the of 32%, which is necessary to lower with wafacilities that perform coating and pickling processes, or improvement of the chater to 18%. racteristics and quality of the steel (electrogalvanized, galvanized and thickness In 2017, a collaboration between Gonvarri Tatreatment). In these cases, all products are properly labeled, comply with the sarragona, Gonvarri Burgos and Hiasa with the fety conditions for their handling and those responsible are adequately trained. company Dupont Ibérica was started, with the The attached chart shows the evolution of steel consumption in the last three aim of reusing the residual hydrochloric acid years (301-1): generated by Dupont in its processes and being able to manage it as a by-product, to be used by Gonvarri as raw material in its processes of pickling and galvanizing. 4 After several meetings between both companies, an agreement was reached for its use. 3 3,859,845 tons 3,238,910 tons 3,463,202 tons In this first phase, due to its proximity to be2 ing located less than 3km from Dupont Ibéri1 ca, Hiasa will benefit the most. In the second phase, the transport to Gonvarri Burgos and 0 2015 2016 2016 2017 Gonvarri Tarragona will be assessed, though its use is unlikely due to the distance between them. The project will start in 2018. With regard to the use of recycled materials, the steel used in our processes is partially made up of recycled deal. This composition varies depending on the supplier, the estimate being that at least 20% is of recycled origin in the rolls Benefits of the project: derived from integrated steelmaking (accounting for some 80% of supplies), and • Economic benefit: The current cost of is 100% in the case of rolls derived from electrical steelmaking. acid is of 78€ per ton. The cost of recycled If we estimate that 20% of the total weight of the rolls is of recycled origin, in acid is 1€ per ton, plus the transport costs, 2017 we consumed a total of 771,969 tonnes of recycled steel in our products. which are estimated at 10 €/Tons. Through proper management of steel, we contribute to the circular economy. And If we consider an average consumption of consequently, in addition to being our main raw material, scrap is also our most 4,500 tons of acid / year, this project would relevant waste. mean an estimated saving of 300,000€/ year. In Gonvarri we have strict control over this, both for its market value and as it is a clear indicator of the efficiency of our processes; the lower the production, the Furthermore, an additional saving of € more efficient the process. In 2017 we have managed a total of 241,009 tons of 32,000 / year is estimated, including savings scrap for recycling (306-2). in water and new operating expenses, compared to the cost of the new treatment plant, estimated in around € 48,000. Conflict Minerals • Safety benefits: Hydrochloric acid has a significant handling risk, especially when In 2010, following the approval of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Conits concentration is high (toxicity, corrosion ...) sumer Protection Act, governments, companies and consumers are increasingly demanding information on the source of so-called “conflict minerals” in the manufacturing of the products they sell, and this has therefore become a significant • Benefits versus climate change: aspect of the supply chain. Due to the proximity to the factory (3km The definition of conflict minerals includes columbite-tantalite (coltan), casiterite, away), compared to the 200km traveled by wolframite and gold, the use of which is restricted in those cases where the origin the current supplier, even considering the would foster and facilitate earnings for armed groups in the Democratic Republic increase in the number of journeys, a larger of the Congo or neighbouring countries, serving to continue the perpetration of amount of acid is required to reach a 32% human rights atrocities. concentration level. In response to this demand, the company provides information as to the absence of such minerals from our products (rolls). It likewise calls on its main steel suppliers to certify their compliance with these requirements. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 63 Quality and clients The success of Gonvarri Steel Services is based on our ability to identify and meet the needs of its our customers. The key is the certification of all our companies in the quality management systems ISO-TS 16949 (Automotive and Industry) or ISO 9001 (Metallic Structures). In 2017, the centers of Gonvarri have begun to be certified with the new Auto standard IATF 16949, which is much more demanding in the identification and mitigation of risks. To assist in this process, a template for self-diagnosis of the ISO/TS-IATF gap, and extensive training has been organized for the management teams of the plants that have requested it. Regarding the labeling of products (steel and aluminum formats), our obligations are focused on being able to supply the necessary data for adequate traceability and • Start-up of the display TQM (Total Quality Managea correct description of their characteristics (thickness, ment) in Automotive plants, promoting Advanced coating, etc.). In any case, due to their characteristics, Planning of the Quality of the Product (APQP) in new our products do not present any chemical or environprojects, strengthening the quality control of the promental risk (417-1). duct and standardizing the best practices in response to incidents. But Gonvarri goes further with its goal of improving the levels of service. To that end, in 2017 a series of initiati• Control Plan Project, with the creation of 5 standard ves aimed at creating a proactive culture of quality were plans for longitudinal, transversal, blanking, reception launched: and issuance. • AMFE standard project, starting from the work of a multidisciplinary group. • From the control of the product to the respect of the process conditions. • Controlled and stable processes. Analysis of loss/risk factors. Profit/reputation Reduction and elimination of all possible causes of losses/identification of risks Identification of the ideal conditions for zero defects. Maintenance of the ideal conditions for zero defects Planificación Planning Reception Cut Expedition Feasibility study Design and product development Release of production Design and development of the process Machine Client parameters AMFE D Control Validation of the process and the product plan Capacity studies AMFE P Capacity Results PM STDW study “Try out homologation Control plan / STDW PPAP APQP Quality Alerts Reaction Plan / Quality Alerts / CRQC Costs of non-quality Nonconforming product treatment 64 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Closeness with the client Gonvarri is committed to personalization and constant improvement of the service, for which it has specialized commercial teams that are suited to the type of business and product, through which a more specific coverage is provided. Automotive Industry For Gonvarri Steel Services, the Automotive sector generates the We develop most of the Industry business in Spain and Pormain sales volume. Its main customers are the OEM´s, stamping tugal. companies and Tier1 and Tier2 integrators. In 2018, this line of business continued to grow significantly, The Corporate Area of Global Auto Sales has a highly qualified due in part to the initiatives developed last year, such as: team of professionals throughout the world. It should be noted • The expansion of the action plan begun in 2016, which that in 2017 an important organizational change took place in contributed to increasing our participation quota in the disthis division, with the incorporation of Christoph Carnol as its tribution sector, reaching historical sales quotas for Gonvarri General Director, the former General Manager of Central Europe, Steel Services. who possesses extensive experience in the Automotive sector. • Regarding SPOT sales (non-programmed) versus programAdditionally, 2017 saw the successful progress of the Key Promed sales, after a significant increase in 2016, it remains on cess 02, Quotation Processing, Auto. The gradual implementathe rise, which balances the overall mix of global sales. tion of said process is planned during 2018 until completion in • The sustained growth in foreign trade, with the creation of all plants of the Group. The standardization and definition of said new sales offices in different geographic environments, in Key Process is a crucial pillar for the efficiency and guarantee of which we had little presence. sustainability within the organization. Among the initiatives carried out during the year, we must hiThe auto sector has clearly evolved towards vehicles with more ghlight the events for our celebration of the “50th anniversary efficient, technological equipment and a lower environmental imof Gonvarri Burgos”, which were attended by our main clients, pact, such as the electric vehicle. For this reason, we are collabowho took the opportunity to visit the plant and the commemorating with our customers in the development of new solutions, rative show room. processes and products, focused, among others, on the use of the new materials such as high strength steel and Aluminium, which The different factories held various events such as “The cusare lighter, safer and with less CO2 emissions. tomer’s day” in Gonvarri Portugal, the visits and periodic meetings of Gonvarri Valencia with its main customers in order to The current investments of Gonvarri, on a global level, point in this see their needs and to adapt our services to those needs. direction. The start of the construction of the new press processing plant dedicated to cutting Blanks for Hot Stamping in Popes Within the forums and events of the year, we highlight the parLane, UK, serves as an example. ticipation of Gonvarri Barcelona in the XIII Forum of storekeepers of Cataluña and Balearic Islands, being an active member In 2017 the processing of materials for Hot Stamping processes of the debate table. increased, incorporating projects, mainly in Europe and Nafta, from new OEMs and Tier1s to our portfolio. Additionally, raising the stake in Service, Innovation and Efficiency, a new facility designated to the cutting of 2D blanks from coils has been put into operation in Gonvarri Valencia, with the advantages in flexibility that the cutting of small series of Steel and Aluminium implicate. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 65 Metal Structures Road Steel Solar Steel Almaceno and Mecano The main customers of Road Steel are The main clients of Solar Steel are comThe Almaceno and Mecano business lirelated to large construction companies, panies related to the development and nes are located in Gonvarri Colombia, from markers, conservation and public admiconstruction (EPC) of solar farms. We prowhere the Latin American and Caribbean nistrations. We mainly provide this service vide this service mainly from the factories market is served. from the factories in Hiasa, Turkey and in Hiasa, Gonvarri Arizona, Gonvarri Baja Almaceno is focused on the industrial and Colombia. California (Mexico), Gonvarri Turkey and commercial sectors, companies of the loIt highlights the innovation initiatives to Gonvarri Colombia. gistics sector and large areas, with imporminimize damage in the event of an acHighlighting the development of innovatitant storage and logistics management cident, as summarized in the Innovation ve products with wireless communication needs. Mecano is focused on the energy, section. technology and self-feeding supply. Furoil, mining and industrial sectors, that Road Steel actively participated in the sethermore, Solar Steel participated as an means in all of the developments that recond Intertraffic fair of Mexico that brings exhibitor in the following fairs: Intersolar quire driving systems of energy and data. together the main actors of road safety in Europe (Germany), MIREC Week (Mexico), Below we summarize some examples: Latin America, at the RoadBridge Forum in Solarex (Turkey), Solar Power InternatioMecano developed different initiatives Dubai, at the Road Tech Expo, Kiev, 2017 nal Las Vegas (USA) and FISE (Colombia), such as: the updating of the commercial and internationally in the Smart Transporin which the company was presented, in technical catalogue, flyers for customers, tation Alliance (STA). particular, the Solar Steel line. MonograYoutube video channel. In addition, courphic meetings were held with clients and Gonvarri Colombia is a member of the ses and workshops on theoretical and potential clients. Business Committee of Road Safety of practical training for our installation perColombia and as such, participated in the In addition to those mentioned above, sonnel and we took part in the most imannual road safety tournament with very within the initiatives carried out by the portant fair in the electricity industry in positive results as well as in several predifferent factories, Solar Steel participated Latin American – FISE 2017. sentations with the Engineers’ Associain congresses and fairs such as: the World Almaceno, among other activities, cation of Antioquia. Future Energy Summit (Abu Dhabi), Interrried out the following: the updating of the solar North America (USA), CIREC Week sales catalogue, advertisements in “Zona (Chile), in RecamWeek (Panama), ExpoSoLogística” magazine and personalized lar (Colombia), the Energyear Forum (Patechnical advice for important clients. In nama) and ANDREC week (Bogotá). addition, Almaceno also participated in several fairs such as the Expologistica Fair, PROMAT Fair – Chicago and Logismaster Colombia with a presence in three cities: Medellin, Bogota and Cali. 66 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Customer satisfaction 102-43 and 102-44 In Gonvarri, we believe that customer satisfaction surveys are an important tool to help assess their degree of satisfaction, identify points of improvement, increase customer loyalty and increase market share. For this reason, we periodically carry out personalized surveys, depending on the type of product and/or geographical area. TOTAL PARTICIPATION Solar Steel Annually, a simple survey is sent to its main national and international clients, to assess the different aspects (price, quality of the product and service, technical support, deadlines, response 30 11 capacity and sales team) based on two parameters: importance and satisfaction. This year’s result shows a notable improvement ANSWERED over the previous year. SENT Participation 37% Hiasa and Gonvauto Asturias Hiasa and Gonvauto Asturias jointly sent a questionnaire to their main clients of cutting and tube lines. In 2017, the survey was sent to 62 clients and answered by 59, which represents a 95.15% response, that represents 93% of the turnover in this fiscal year. This year’s result shows a slight improvement over the previous year, although in both cases it is very satisfactory. The Global 62 59 ANSWERED Overall Satisfaction Index averages 87.39 %, fulfilling the proSENT Participation posed objective. 95% GSS Iberia GSS Iberia make an annual online survey for their main customers. The survey is carried out from the Gonvarri factories in Burgos, Valencia, Barcelona and Portugal. In general, the percentage of response has been lower than last year, highlighting that the customers from Portugal had the highest participation rate. Even though the average rating is satisfactory, highlighting the 728 292 ANSWERED quality, competitiveness, logistics, customer service, the delivery SENT times and prices stand out as points of improvement. Participation 40% Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 67 Gonvarri Production Systems Based on the Toyota Production System (TPS), the Activities carried out in 2017: Gonvarri Production System (SPG) is the Lean Manufacturing program of Gonvarri Steel Services. 2,870 employees In that sense, it is not only a set of tools or a structuhave participated in SPG actions red method used to achieve our goals but a philosophy, a culture of continuous improvement that is based on 261 GRPs the implication of all teams, as well as in a fluid commu(Problem Resolution nication among them. Within this framework, it is the Groups) launched operators themselves, organized in GAP (Autonomous groups), who make most of the operational decisions in 417 GAPs a proactive and autonomous manner, but also in har(Autonomous Production groups) mony with the rest of the organization. working under SPG standards Of all the SPG tools, the most important ones focus on 22,429 man-hours improving the involvement by reinforcing the communiof SPG training cation channels within the organization. This is the case of the 6 types of Top meetings that 751 workshops (5S, STDW Standardized work, SMED, make up, at all levels of the organization, a clear and hoValue Stream Mapping, Total Productive mogenized information flow throughout Gonvarri. Maintenance, Lean Office…) who? when? what? from bottom to top levels 6. Daily Meeting Site Steering Commitee Daily Department coordination 5. Top Kaizen Supervisors and Operational Managers Weekly Review KPIs: targets & actions Information flow 4. Production Dpt Manager with his/her Supervisor Daily Review KPIs, incidents, ideas 3. Supervision Supervisor with his/her GAP leaders Shift Review KPIs, incidents, ideas 2. Shift Change Incoming & leaving GAP leaders Shift Check incidents 1. Top 5 GAP (line) Shift Review GAP (line) KPIs Safety & Enviroment issues Like any other Lean Manufacturing system, the SPG coAdditionally, each GAP has specific communication vers all Gonvarri processes, products, activities and peoareas, managed by the operators themselves, in which ple. Its methodology to achieve operational excellence is they periodically maintain and review the indicators and based on the complete elimination of all types of moult information that affect their performance. (= inefficiency, waste): defects, overproduction, transIn 2016, SPG has become, together with Health and Saportation, waiting time, stocks, useless movements of fety, Environment and Quality, one of the 4 subsystems people, unnecessary processes and untapped creativity. of continuous improvement that make up the SGI (InteThe SPG consists of thirty tools (SMED, Standard Work, grated Management System). 5S, Value Stream Mapping, Communication Boards, GAP, After almost a decade of implementation, the SPG model Top meetings at all levels, etc.) organized into 4 modules: has undergone a thorough revision 2017, in order to proStaff Involvement, Efficiency of Media, Flow Efficiency vide greater flexibility, bring it even closer to the business and Lean Office (adaptation to the administrative enviand take better advantage of synergies with the rest of ronment). the systems. SPG Evolution is the result, achieved with The method of work is that every person at Gonvarri the contribution of dozens of specialists from all areas of internalizes the most efficient way of completing their the company, and is already in full process in each Gonwork, improving it day by day, whilst in a framework of varri centre. absolute communication with their colleagues. This implies that the trainers (a specialist technician in each plant, plus a corporate team) work directly with all of the staff: operators, administrators, technicians and managers. 68 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Control Mechanisms: the SGI Integrated Audit Gonvarri has defined numerous control mechanisms with the and segmented into 4 levels, from lowest to highest compliance, objective of identifying risks. The most relevant is the Integrated converts the referential into a true roadmap to achieve excellence Audit of the SGI (Integrated Management System). in all areas related to Efficiency (Health and Safety, Environment, Created in 2017, the Integrated Audit of the SGI replaces all parQuality and SPG). tial system audits, providing a global view of the situation of each In 2017, 26 centers were audited in accordance with this new audited center with respect to international standards (OHSAS methodology. Local SGI technicians are being certified to be part 18001, ISO 14001, ISO-TS 16949, ISO 9001) as well as the inof the auditing community. ternal standards (Health and Safety systematics, Environmental The PDCA or consequent Action Plans are incorporated into the Behavior Index, TQM methodology and SPG model). Sygris software, which facilitates both its implementation and The audit as such is carried out in a single week, during which monitoring. the audit team reviews 4000 items. The valuation, quantitative 2017 TOTAL GLOBAL SCORE 1. ESTRATEGIA / 2018 H&S STRATEGY 100,0% 53,4% Internal Standards 60,0% 80,0% 7. MEJORA CONTINUA / CONTINUAL 60,0% 2. LIDERAZGO / LEADERSHIP ENV 56,1% 57,9% IMPROVEMENT 68,1% 67,6% 40,0% TOTAL TOTAL 1. ESTRATEGIA / 20172017 GLOBAL SCORE Q 62,0% GLOBAL SCORE H&SH&S 1. ESTRATEGIA / STRATEGY STRATEGY 20182018 20,0% 100,0%100,0% 53,4% 53,4% 20172017 External External StandardsStandards Internal Standards Internal Standards TOTAL TOTAL External External StandardsStandards Internal Standards Internal Standards 60,0% 80,0% 80,0%60,0% GLOBAL GLOBAL SCORE SCORE H&S SPG 0,0%1. ESTRATEGIA 1. ESTRATEGIA / / 7. MEJORA CONTINUACONTINUA CONTINUAL 7. MEJORA / CONTINUAL / STRATEGY STRATEGY 100,0%100,0% 2. LIDERAZGO / 2. LIDERAZGO LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP / 20182018 H&S ENV ENV 53,4% 53,4% 56,1% 56,1% 56,7% 60,0% 60,0% 53,3% 57,9% 58,8% 57,9% IMPROVEMENT 68,1% 68,1% IMPROVEMENT 67,6% 67,6% 6. DESEMPEÑO / 3. PLANIFICACIÓN PERFORMANCE 60,0% 80,0% 60,0% 80,0% / PLANNING 7. MEJORA 7. MEJORA 40,0% 40,0% Q ENV External Standards CONTINUA / CONTINUA / 2. LIDERAZGO 2. LIDERAZGO / / ENV Q 56,1% 62,0% 62,0% 56,1% CONTINUAL CONTINUAL 60,0% 60,0% LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP OHSAS 18001:2007 NC OBS 57,9% 57,9% IMPROVEMENT IMPROVEMENT 68,1% 68,1% 20,0% 20,0% 67,6% 67,6% 40,0% 40,0% SPG 0,0% 0,0% 57,5% 54,4% ISO 14001:2015Q SPG 56,7% Q 62,0%NC 56,7% 62,0% OBS 58,8% 58,8% 20,0% 20,0% 53,3% 53,3% 6. DESEMPEÑO / 6. DESEMPEÑO / 3. PLANIFICACIÓN 3. PLANIFICACIÓN PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE 5. CONTROL 4. POTENCIAL / PLANNING / PLANNING NC OBS OPERACIONAL / HUMANO / SPGSPG 0,0% 0,0% OPERATIONAL CONTROL 58,8% 58,8% HUMAN POTENTIAL 53,3% 53,3% OHSAS ISO TS 16949:2009 18001:2007 OHSAS 18001:2007 NC NC OBS 56,7% 56,7% OBS 6. DESEMPEÑO 6. DESEMPEÑO / / 3. PLANIFICACIÓN 3. PLANIFICACIÓN PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE / PLANNING / PLANNING 57,5% 57,5% 54,4% 54,4% 14001:2015 ISO ISO 14001:2015 NCNC OBS OBS 5. CONTROL 5. CONTROL 4. POTENCIAL 4. POTENCIAL OHSAS 18001:2007 OHSAS 18001:2007 NCNC OBS OBS NCNC OBS OPERACIONAL / HUMANO / OBS OPERACIONAL / HUMANO / OPERATIONAL OPERATIONAL HUMANHUMAN ISO ISO TS 16949:2009 TS 16949:2009 CONTROLCONTROL 57,5% 57,5% POTENTIAL 54,4% 54,4% POTENTIAL ISO ISO 14001:2015 14001:2015 NCNC OBS OBS Environment 1.2. CONTEXTO DE H&SSecurity and health 1.1. Compromiso ENV 5. CONTROL 5. CONTROL 1.1. POLÍTICA SGI / LA ORGANIZACIÓN 4. POTENCIAL 4. POTENCIAL de Gerencia / NCNC OBS OBS OPERACIONAL OPERACIONAL / SGI/ POLICY / CONTEXT OFHUMANO THE… HUMANO / / 7.1. GESTION DE CONTROL OPERATIONAL OPERATIONAL CONTROL HUMANHUMAN 1.3. POTENTIAL POTENTIAL ISO TS 16949:2009 TS 16949:2009 ISO 5.5. Control de Management… 1.2. Integración ACCIONES 100,0% RESPONSABILIDAD Riesgos en 100,0% de la Seguridad CORPORATIVA /… CORRECTIVAS Y… 1.2. CONTEXTO DE 5.4. Gestión deinstalaciones /… en la línea…1.3. Recursos H&S 1.2. CONTEXTO DE 1.1. Compromiso ENV H&S 1.1. Compromiso ENV 6.5. AUDITORÍAS INTERNAS / 7.1. GESTION DE 1.1. POLÍTICA 1.1. POLÍTICA 80,0%SGI POLICY SGI / SGILA/ ORGANIZACIÓN SGI POLICY / CONTEXT LA ORGANIZACIÓN 2.1. FUNCIONES Y OF THE… OF THE… RESPONSABILIDADE / CONTEXT 1.3. los cambiosde/ Gerencia 5.5. Control Change… 5.5. de Control de / de Gerencia Management… / 80,0% Management…1.2. Integración 1.2. Integración H&S / H&S Resources INTERNAL AUDITS 7.1. GESTION DE 100,0%100,0% S1.3. / ROLES AND… ACCIONES ACCIONES RESPONSABILIDAD RESPONSABILIDAD en Riesgos Riesgos en100,0%100,0% de la Seguridad de la Seguridad CORRECTIVAS Y… CORPORATIVA /… CORPORATIVA /… REVISIÓN POR 5.3. Vigilancia de deinstalaciones /… en la línea… 2.1. Identificación 6.2. EVALUACIÓN CORRECTIVAS Y… 2.2. 5.4. Gestión 5.4. Gestión deinstalaciones /… la línea… en 1.3. Recursos 1.3. Recursos DEL 60,0% DE 1.2. CONTEXTO 1.2. CONTEXTO DE 2.1. FUNCIONES YLA DIRECCIÓN / Salud la los los cambios / / Health 60,0%H&S / H&S de Peligros y H&S H&S 6.5. AUDITORÍAS 2.1. FUNCIONES Y cambios / 1.1. Compromiso 1.1. Compromiso H&S / H&S ENV ENV 6.5. AUDITORÍAS INTERNAS / 1.1. 80,0%1.1. POLÍTICA POLÍTICA SGI 80,0%/ SGI LA / ORGANIZACIÓN ORGANIZACIÓN LA RESPONSABILIDADE RESPONSABILIDADE surveillance Change… 80,0% 80,0% Resources Evaluación de… CUMPLIMIENTO… INTERNAS / SGI POLICYSGI POLICY / CONTEXT OF THE… OF THE… S / ROLESS AND… / CONTEXT MANAGEMENT… Change… / de Gerencia de Gerencia / Resources INTERNAL AUDITS AUDITS INTERNAL / ROLES AND… 7.1. GESTION DE 7.1. GESTION DE 1.3. 1.3. 5.3. Vigilancia de 5.3. Vigilancia de 5.5. Control5.5. de Management…1.2. Integración Control de Management… 1.2. Integración 2.1. Identificación 2.1. Identificación 6.2. EVALUACIÓN 2.2. REVISIÓN POR 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL 6.2. EVALUACIÓN ACCIONES ACCIONES 100,0%100,0% RESPONSABILIDAD 2.2. RESPONSABILIDAD REVISIÓN 2.3. POR ACTIVIDADES / Health la Salud la Riesgos Riesgos en en100,0% 100,0% de la Seguridad de la Seguridad de Peligros y DEL DEL 40,0%60,0% 60,0% LA DIRECCIÓN / LA DIRECCIÓN / Salud / Health 5.2. Inspecciones 60,0% 60,0% 40,0% de Peligros y 2.2. Evaluación SGI / IMG CUMPLIMIENTO… CORRECTIVAS CORRECTIVAS Y… Y… CORPORATIVA /… CORPORATIVA /… REALIZADAS POR LA MANAGEMENT… surveillance surveillance 5.4. Gestión deinstalaciones deinstalaciones 5.4. Gestión /… /… en 1.3. en la línea… la línea… Recursos Evaluación 1.3. Recursos de… Evaluación de… CUMPLIMIENTO… MANAGEMENT… MANAGEMENT 6.5. AUDITORÍAS 6.5. AUDITORÍAS 2.1. FUNCIONES Y 2.1. FUNCIONES YLÍNEA /… delosSeguridad cambios / y los cambios / H&S / H&S H&S / H&S de exposición a 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL INTERNAS 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL INTERNAS / / 80,0% 80,0% 40,0% 40,0% RESPONSABILIDADE 2.3. ACTIVIDADES RESPONSABILIDADE 2.3. ACTIVIDADES 5.2. Inspecciones Change…Change… Observaciones… 80,0% 80,0% 40,0% 40,0% Resources Resources 2.2. Evaluación riesgos… SGI / IMGSGI / IMG INTERNAL REALIZADAS S / ROLESS AND… / ROLES AND… POR LA POR LA REALIZADAS 5.2. Inspecciones 2.2. Evaluación 5.24. INTERNAL AUDITS AUDITS 20,0% 3.1. MAPA LÍNEA /… LÍNEA /… DE de Seguridad y5.3. Vigilancia Seguridad deVigilancia 20,0% de exposición a MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 5.3. dey de 2.1. Identificación 2.1. de exposición Identificación a DOCUMENTACIÓN 6.2. EVALUACIÓN 6.2. EVALUACIÓN 2.2. REVISIÓN PROCESOS POR / POR 2.2. REVISIÓN Observaciones… riesgos… DEL DEL 60,0% 60,0% LA DIRECCIÓN / LA DIRECCIÓN / la Observaciones… Salud la Salud / Health / Health 60,0% 60,0% de de Peligros y Peligros riesgos… y DEL SGI / SGI… 5.24. 5.24. 20,0% 20,0% 3.1. MAPAPROCESS DEMAPA MAP 3.1. DE 5.1. Revisión y surveillance surveillance 20,0% 20,0% de… Evaluación Evaluación de… 2.3. Requisitos CUMPLIMIENTO… CUMPLIMIENTO… MANAGEMENT…MANAGEMENT… PROCESOS / DOCUMENTACIÓN DOCUMENTACIÓN PROCESOS / DELGESTIÓN SGI6.1.SGI… /DEL 0,0% PROCESSPROCESS MAP MAP 5.1. Revisión y mantenimiento 0,0% 2.3. Requisitos legales y otros 6.1. SGI / SGI… DEL GESTIÓN DEL 2.3. ACTIVIDADES 2.3. ACTIVIDADES 5.1. Revisión y 2.3. Requisitos 5.13. GESTIÓN DE SGI / IMGSGI / IMG 40,0% 40,0% 0,0% 0,0% REALIZADAS 3.2. POR LA REALIZADAS ALCANCE POR LA DEL 5.2. Inspecciones 5.2. Inspecciones mantenimiento de equipos /… mantenimiento 40,0% 40,0% 0,0% 0,0% 2.2. legales2.2. Evaluación Evaluación otros ylegales y otros requisitos… SGI / SCOPE /… OF deequipos Seguridad deequipos y /… y Seguridad de exposición de exposición a a PROVEEDORES / 5.13. MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT GESTIÓN 5.13. DE GESTIÓN DE LÍNEA 3.2. ALCANCELÍNEA /…3.2. DEL ALCANCE DELTHE de de /… requisitos… requisitos… SUPPLIER… PROVEEDORES / PROVEEDORES / SGI / SCOPESGI OF SGIOF THE THE / SCOPE Observaciones… Observaciones… riesgos…riesgos… SUPPLIER… 5.24. 5.24. SUPPLIER… 20,0% 20,0% 3.1. MAPASGI DEMAPA 3.1. SGIDE 20,0% 20,0% DOCUMENTACIÓN DOCUMENTACIÓN PROCESOS / PROCESOS / 4.4. Acciones de 4.4. Acciones de 2.4. Instrucciones 2.4. Instrucciones 5.6. OPERACIÓN DEL 3.3. ANÁLISIS DE 4.4. Acciones de 2.4. Instrucciones 5.6.SGI 5.6.SGI SGI… /DEL OPERACIÓN / SGI… OPERACIÓN 3.3.PROCESS ANÁLISIS MAP PROCESS DE 3.3. ANÁLISIS MAP DE 5.1. 5.1. Revisión y / concienciación Revisión concienciación y / concienciación / de2.3. de2.3. Requisitos Trabajo Requisitos / Job Trabajo / Job de Trabajo / Job AMBIENTAL / AMBIENTAL / AMBIENTAL / 0,0% 0,0% RIESGOS RIESGOS Y RIESGOS YY mantenimiento mantenimiento Awareness-… Awareness-… 0,0% 0,0% legales otros y otros ylegales Instructions Instructions Awareness-… Instructions ENVIRONMENTAL… ENVIRONMENTAL… 5.13. GESTIÓN ENVIRONMENTAL… 5.13. GESTIÓN DE DE OPORTUNIDADES… OPORTUNIDADES… 3.2. OPORTUNIDADES… ALCANCE 3.2. ALCANCE DEL DEL de equipos de equipos /… /… requisitos… requisitos… PROVEEDORES / PROVEEDORES / SGI / SCOPE THE OF THE / SCOPE SGI OF SUPPLIER… 5.5. SUPPLIER… 3.4. EVALUACIÓN SGI SGI 4.3. Coordinación 4.3. Coordinación 2.5. Tratamiento 2.5. Tratamiento EMERGENCIAS 5.5. EMERGENCIAS / EMERGENCY / 5.5. EMERGENCIAS / 3.4.3.4. DE RIESGOS EVALUACIÓN EVALUACIÓN Y de actividades 4.3. Coordinación de los incidentes 2.5. Tratamiento EMERGENCY DE RIESGOS Y 4.4. 4.4. Acciones dede actividades Acciones de de los 2.4. incidentes Instrucciones 2.4. Instrucciones EMERGENCY DE RIESGOS ASPECTOS… ASPECTOS… Y con externos /… / de/…actividades y accidentes /…de Trabajo de los incidentes 5.6. OPERACIÓN 5.6. OPERACIÓN 3.3. ANÁLISIS DE 3.3. ANÁLISIS DE concienciación /con externos concienciación / Job/… / Job accidentes deyTrabajo AMBIENTAL / 5.4. / 5.4. AMBIENTAL 3.5. REQUISITOS ASPECTOS… RIESGOS RIESGOS Y Y con externos /… y accidentes /… COORDINACIÓN 3.5. REQUISITOS Awareness-… 4.2. Awareness-… 3.1. Objetivos y Instructions Instructions 5.4. ENVIRONMENTAL… ENVIRONMENTAL… COORDINACIÓN OPORTUNIDADES… Y OTROS LEGALESLEGALES OPORTUNIDADES… 4.2. 3.1. Objetivos y CON EMPRESAS… 3.5. REQUISITOS Y OTROS CON EMPRESAS… Comunicación, Comunicación, Planificación / Planificación / COORDINACIÓN REQUISITOS /… REQUISITOS /… 4.2. 3.1. Objetivos y 5.1. EQUIPOS E 5.1. EQUIPOS E LEGALES Y OTROS Y 3.4. EVALUACIÓN 3.4. EVALUACIÓN participación participación 4.3. Coordinación 4.3. Coordinación y… Formación, 4.1. y… 3.2. Mejora Objectives and…Tratamiento Objectives 2.5. and… 2.5. Tratamiento CON EMPRESAS… 5.5. EMERGENCIAS 5.5. EMERGENCIAS / / INSTALACIONES / INSTALACIONES / 3.6. DEFINICIÓN 3.6. DEFINICIÓN Y 4.1. Formación, Comunicación, 3.2. Mejora Planificación / EMERGENCY EMERGENCY DESPLIEGUE DEREQUISITOS DESPLIEGUE DE RIESGOS DE /…RIESGOS DE Y Y de actividades cualificación de actividades y cualificación y / continuacontinua / de los incidentes de los incidentes 5.1. EQUIPOSEQUIPMENT E AND… AND… EQUIPMENT ASPECTOS… ASPECTOS… participación 4.1.y… Formación, Continuous… Objectives and… INSTALACIONES /5.4. 4.3. FORMACIÓN Y OBJETIVOS 3.6. DEFINICIÓN/… OBJETIVOS Y /… con externos con externos /… /… competencia… competencia…3.3. Emergencias 3.3. Emergencias Continuous… y accidentes y accidentes 3.2. /… Mejora /… 5.4. 4.3. FORMACIÓN Y 4.1. 4.1. 3.7. PLANIFICACIÓN cualificación y y continua / COMPETENCIAS / DESPLIEGUE 3.7. PLANIFICACIÓN 3.5. REQUISITOS 3.5. REQUISITOS DE / Emergencies EQUIPMENT COORDINACIÓNAND… COORDINACIÓN COMPETENCIAS / COMUNICACIÓN Y COMUNICACIÓN DEL Y SGI/ DELSGI SGI/ SGI LEGALESLEGALES 4.2. 4.2. / Emergencies 3.1. Objetivos 3.1. Objetivos y CON EMPRESAS… COMPETENCE… CON EMPRESAS… COMPETENCE… PARTICIPACIÓN /… OBJETIVOS /…Y OTROSY OTROS Comunicación, Comunicación, competencia… Planificación Planificación / / Continuous… 4.3. 5.1.FORMACIÓN Y E PARTICIPACIÓN PLANNING /… PLANNING REQUISITOS /… REQUISITOS /… 3.3. Emergencias EQUIPOS 5.1. EQUIPOS E 4.1. 3.7. PLANIFICACIÓN participación participación 4.1. y… Formación, y… Formación, 4.1. 3.2. Mejora Objectives Objectives 3.2. Mejora and… and… COMPETENCIAS INSTALACIONES INSTALACIONES / / / COMUNICACIÓN Y 3.6. 3.6. DEFINICIÓN Y DEFINICIÓN Y / Emergencies DEL SGI/ SGI DESPLIEGUE DESPLIEGUE DE DE cualificación cualificación y y continuacontinua / / COMPETENCE… EQUIPMENT EQUIPMENT AND… AND… PARTICIPACIÓN /… OBJETIVOS OBJETIVOS /… /… PLANNING competencia…3.3. Emergencias competencia… Continuous… 3.3. EmergenciasContinuous… Q Q 4.3. FORMACIÓN 4.3. FORMACIÓN Y Y 4.1. SPGSPG 4.1. 3.7. PLANIFICACIÓN 3.7. PLANIFICACIÓN COMPETENCIAS COMPETENCIAS / / / Emergencies / Emergencies Quality SPG Y COMUNICACIÓN COMUNICACIÓN Y SGI/ DEL DEL SGI SGI/ SGI 0.1. Liderazgo / 0.1. Liderazgo / COMPETENCE… COMPETENCE… PARTICIPACIÓN PARTICIPACIÓN /… /… 1.1. POLÍTICA SGI… 1.1. POLÍTICA PLANNING SGI… PLANNING Leadership Leadership 7.5. TALLERES SPG… SPG… 1.2. CONTEXTO DE… 4.3.2. 4.3.2. 0.2. OHP0.2. OHP 7.5. TALLERES 7.4.… 1.2. CONTEXTO 1.3.… DE… 100,0% 7.4.… 100,0% 1.3.… 100,0%100,0% Q 2.1. FUNCIONES Y… Planificación de Planificación de Organización Organización SPG 2.1. FUNCIONES Y… 7.2. GRUPO Recursos /… Recursos /… para la…para la… HumanaHumana 7.2.DE… GRUPO DE… 2.2. REVISIÓN POR… POR… 2.2. REVISIÓN 4.3.1. Mapas 4.3.1. Mapas 0.3. / 0.3. 0.1. Liderazgo Q Q 7.1. GESTION 6.5. AUDITORÍAS… DE… 7.1. GESTION 6.5. AUDITORÍAS… DE… 7.5. TALLERES SPG… 80,0% 80,0% 1.1. POLÍTICA SGI… 1.2. CONTEXTO DE… 3.1. MAPA DE… 3.1. 3.2. ALCANCE MAPA DE… DEL… 3.2. ALCANCE DEL… SPGSPG Administrativos Administrative… / Administrativos Administrative… / 80,0% 80,0% 0.1. Liderazgo 4.3.2. / 0.1. Liderazgo / Comunicación Leadership Comunication / Comunicación / Comunication 0.2. OHP 7.4.… 100,0%1.1. POLÍTICA SGI… 1.3.… 1.1. POLÍTICA SGI… Leadership Leadership 100,0% 7.5. TALLERES SPG… SPG… 1.2. CONTEXTO 7.5. TALLERES DE… 1.2. CONTEXTO DE… 4.3.2. 4.3.2. Planificación de 0.2. OHP OHP0.2. Organización 6.4. DESEMPEÑO… 6.4. DESEMPEÑO… 7.4.… 100,0% 7.4.… 100,0% 1.3.… 2.1. FUNCIONES 1.3.… Y…3.3. ANÁLISIS DE… 3.3. ANÁLISIS DE… 4.2.4. Logística 4.2.4. Logística Planificación Planificación de 100,0%100,0% de Organización 0.4. Definición Organización y 0.4. Definición y 7.2. GRUPO DE… 60,0% 60,0% 2.1. FUNCIONES 2.2. Y… 2.1. FUNCIONES REVISIÓN Y… POR… externa interna yinterna y externa 60,0% 60,0% /… Recursos seguimiento Humana de seguimiento de para la… 6.3. SEGUIMIENTO… 7.2. GRUPO GRUPO DE… 7.2.DE… POR…3.6.POR… 2.2. REVISIÓN 2.2. REVISIÓN DEFINICIÓN Y… 4.3.1. Mapas 4.3.1. Mapas Recursos /… Mapas 4.3.1. Recursos /… HumanaHumana para la…para la… 0.3. los0.3. 0.3. 6.3. SEGUIMIENTO… 3.6. DEFINICIÓN Y… / Internal/ Internal and… and… objetivos /… los objetivos /… 7.1. GESTION DE… 7.1. GESTION DE… 7.1. GESTION DE… 3.1. 3.1. MAPA MAPA DE… 3.1. DE…DE… MAPA Administrativos / Administrativos Administrativos / / Comunicación / 80,0%80,0% 80,0% 80,0% 80,0% 80,0%ComunicaciónComunicación / / 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL… 6.1.6.5. GESTIÓN 6.5. AUDITORÍAS… DEL… AUDITORÍAS… 6.5. AUDITORÍAS… 40,0% 40,0% 3.2.3.2. ALCANCE 3.7.… ALCANCEDEL… 3.7.… DEL… 3.2. ALCANCE DEL… Administrative… Administrative…Administrative… 40,0% 40,0% Comunication Comunication Comunication 0.5. Resolución 0.5. Resolución 6.4.5.24.…6.4.5.24.… DESEMPEÑO…DESEMPEÑO… 3.8.… 3.3. 3.3. ANÁLISIS DE… 3.8.…DE… ANÁLISIS 4.2.4. Logística 4.2.4. Logística 0.4. 0.4. DefiniciónDefinición y de Problemas / y de Problemas / 6.4. DESEMPEÑO… 60,0% 60,0% 3.3. ANÁLISIS DE… 4.2.4. Logística 60,0% 60,0% 0.4. Definición y 60,0%20,0% 20,0% interna yinterna externa y externa 20,0% 20,0% 60,0% seguimiento seguimiento Problem deProblemdeSolving Solving 6.3. SEGUIMIENTO… 6.3. SEGUIMIENTO… 5.23.… 5.23.… 3.6. 3.6. DEFINICIÓN 3.9. PLANY… DE…PLANY… DEFINICIÓN 3.9. DE… and… interna / Internal/ Internal and… y externa los objetivos los objetivos /… /… seguimiento de 6.3. SEGUIMIENTO… 3.6. DEFINICIÓN Y… / Internal and… los objetivos /… 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL… 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL… 40,0% 40,0% 3.7.… 3.7.… 40,0% 40,0% 5.22. TPM5.22. TPM 0,0% 0,0% 3.10.… 3.10.… 4.2.2. 4.2.2. 0,0% 0,0% 6.1. GESTIÓN DEL… 40,0% 3.7.… Planificación / 40,0% 0.5. 0.6.Resolución 0.6.Resolución 0.5. Formación / Formación / 5.24.… 5.24.… 3.8.… 3.8.… Planificación / de Problemas de Problemas Training / / 5.21. LOGÍSTICA… 3.11. SEGURIDAD… Training 5.21. LOGÍSTICA… 20,0% 20,0% 3.11. SEGURIDAD… PlanningPlanning 20,0% 20,0% Solving Solving ProblemProblem 0.5. Resolución 5.24.… 5.23.… 5.23.… 3.8.… 3.9. PLAN3.9. DE…PLAN DE… de Problemas / 5.20. GESTIÓN DE… 5.20. GESTIÓN DE… 3.12.… 3.12.… 20,0% 20,0% Problem Solving 5.22. TPM 5.22. TPM 0,0% 0,0% 3.10.… 3.10.… 3.9. 0,0% 0,0% 0.7. Ideas deIdeas de 0.7. 5.23.… PLAN DE… 4.2.2. 5.19.… 5.19.… 4.1.… 4.1.… 4.2.1.4.2.2. VSM 4.2.1. VSM Mejora /Mejora 0.6. Formación 0.6. Formación // / Planificación Planificación / / Improvement… 5.21. LOGÍSTICA… 5.21. LOGÍSTICA… 3.11. SEGURIDAD… 3.11. SEGURIDAD… TrainingTraining Improvement… 5.18.… 5.18.… 4.2. MOTIVACIÓN… 4.2. MOTIVACIÓN… PlanningPlanning 5.22. TPM 0,0% 3.10.… 4.2.2. 0,0% 5.20. CONTROL 5.17. 5.20. GESTIÓN GESTIÓN DE… DE… DE… 5.17. CONTROL DE… 4.3. FORMACIÓN… 3.12.… 4.3. 3.12.… FORMACIÓN… 0.6. Formación / Planificación / 5.21. LOGÍSTICA… 3.11. SEGURIDAD… 4.1.4. TPM 4.1.4. TPM 0.8. 5S 0.8. 0.7.5S Ideas deIdeas de 0.7. Training 5.19.… 5.16.… 5.19.… 5.16.… 4.4.… 4.4.… 4.1.… 4.1.… Planning 4.2.1. VSM 4.2.1. VSM Mejora /Mejora / 5.1. EQUIPOS E… 5.1. EQUIPOS E… 0.9. Trabajo 0.9. TrabajoImprovement… Improvement… 5.20. GESTIÓN DE… 5.18.… 5.14. 5.18.… CONTROL DE… 5.14. CONTROL DE… 5.3.… 5.3.… 4.2.3.12.… MOTIVACIÓN… 4.2. MOTIVACIÓN… 4.1.3. TRS Estandarizado / 5.13. GESTIÓN DE… 5.13. GESTIÓN DE… 5.7. AMBIENTE… 5.7. AMBIENTE… 4.1.3. TRS 4.1.1. 4.1.1. Estandarizado Work Work StandardStandard / 20172017 5.17. CONTROL DE… 5.17. CONTROL DE… 5.12. EQUIPOS DE… 5.12. EQUIPOS DE… 5.8. GESTIÓN DE… 5.8. GESTIÓN DE… 4.3. FORMACIÓN… 4.3. FORMACIÓN… 4.1.2. SMED Optimización de 0.7. Ideas de 5.19.… 5.11.… 5.9.… 4.1.… 4.1.2. SMED Optimización de 5.16.… 5.16.… 5.11.… 5.10. CAPACIDAD… 5.9.… 5.10. CAPACIDAD… 4.4.… 4.4.… 4.2.1. 4.1.4. 4.1.4. TPM TPMVSM ciclos / Cycle… ciclos / Cycle… 0.8. 5S 0.8. 5S 20182018 Mejora / Improvement… 5.18.… 5.1. EQUIPOS E… 4.2.E…MOTIVACIÓN… 5.1. EQUIPOS 0.9. Trabajo 0.9. Trabajo 5.14. CONTROL 5.14. CONTROL DE… DE… 5.3.… 5.3.… 4.1.3. TRS 4.1.3. TRS Estandarizado Estandarizado / / 5.17. CONTROL DE… 5.13. GESTIÓN 5.13. GESTIÓN DE… DE… 5.7. AMBIENTE… 5.7. AMBIENTE… 4.3. FORMACIÓN… 4.1.1. 4.1.1. Work Work StandardStandard 20172017 5.12. EQUIPOS 5.12. EQUIPOS DE… DE… 5.8. GESTIÓN 5.8. GESTIÓN DE… DE… 4.1.2. SMED 5.11.… 5.11.… 5.9.… 5.9.… 5.10. CAPACIDAD… 5.10. CAPACIDAD… 4.1.4. TPM4.1.2. SMED Optimización de Optimización de 20182018 0.8. 5S 5.16.… 4.4.… ciclos / Cycle… ciclos / Cycle… 5.1. EQUIPOS E… 0.9. Trabajo 5.14. CONTROL DE… 5.3.… 4.1.3. TRS Estandarizado / 5.13. GESTIÓN DE… 5.7. AMBIENTE… 4.1.1. Standard Work 2017 5.12. EQUIPOS DE… 5.8. GESTIÓN DE… 4.1.2. SMED 5.11.… 5.9.… Optimización de 5.10. CAPACIDAD… ciclos / Cycle… 2018 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 69 Sustainability Work ethics and commitment to the society Represents responsible management model and commitment to ethics, transparency, justice as well as collaboration with our stakeholders regardless of the location where we operate. 70 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Social Action 102-12 and 413-1 One of the priorities of Gonvarri Steel Services is to help local development in the areas that we have a presence. For this reason, collaboration agreements with non-profit organizations have been established with whom corporate and local activities of varied nature are set in motion. Since 2013, we have supported the Foundation Lo Que De Verdad Importa (What really matters) with disseminating universal, moral and ethical human values through the development of The Association for Spinal Cord Injury motivational conferences. This 2017, apart Studies (AESLEME) has as its goal to from the support for the conferences and prevent accidents through training spreading them among our employees, the new and social sensitization as well as volume of LQDVI, which is defined by its special to offer psychological and juridical attention to the environment, has also been support to those affected by traffic acquired and distributed among employees, accidents. In 2017, dissemination customers and providers about road safety was specially promoted in schools in the Madrid Community. Gonvarri Steel Services has supported the Foundation since 2007, apart from being its Trustee. Its mission is to improve the lives of people with intellectual disabilities and to foment their social integration. This year the company has supported the Foundation with the rent of its spaces and utilities. The mission of this Non-profit organization is to end the food insecurity and malnutrition in areas where Entity supported by the group which aims humanitarian catastrophes have occured. to help children and adolescents with cancer and their families. We have been contributing to this Foundation since 2016. In 2017, we collaborated with the promotion, dissemination and purchasing of the movie Lo Que De Verdad Importa. We also carry out developmental programs and actions with the local communities in various countries. We would like to highlight the central offices and our plants in Spain, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Portugal, Puebla (Mexico) and Poland (54%). The main areas of action in the communities are detailed hereunder: Education and youth 5% 26% Social welfare Healthy and Sports 28% 36% Art and culture Environmental 5% The Company did not identify any significant (real or potential) negative impacts on the local community as a result of our facilities (413-2). Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 71 Health and sports Within the initiatives related to health and sport that have a social component, we highlight the following: Gonvauto Barcelona which is committed to healthy living and road safety, has participated in the second edition of the 24h MADFORM BiCircuit, at the circuit of Montmeló. 7 employees participated in this event and raised 3.000 euros for AESLEME. Gonvarri Barcelona has sponsored the Barcelona Supporters Club Sant Just Trajana, in support of children, with a donation for their football equipment. Gonvauto Navarra is one of the private sponsors of the football school of the Sport Education association of Valle de Egües, Culture from which more than 350 youngsters have benefitted over the Gonvarri Steel Services supports the launch and promotion of last few years. the movie ¨Lo Que De Verdad Importa¨, the profits of which will Gonvarri Poland helped the fundraising for prothesis and rego to summer camps for children with cancer, following the “Sehabilitation equipment through the solidary race “Bussines Run rious Fun Children´s Network” model created by Paul Newman. Foundation”, which was organized by an NGO for people with Employees were invited to see the movie with their family memreduced mobility. bers. In Gonvarri Burgos and HIASA, the employees and their Gonvarri Colombia offers psychological help to families of emfamilies were given a special pass during the weekend of its reployees to cope with any hard times that they are going throulease, with 200 employees attending. More than 380 people in gh. Furthermore, it is developing an accompanying program for total were given tickets in Madrid´s central offices, Gonvarri pre-pensioners and pensioners through a change-adaptation Valencia, Gonvarri Barcelona, Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonprogram and through preparation for this new situation. vauto Navarra and Gonvauto Galicia. Gonvarri Valencia, at the Worl Breast Cancer Day, Gonvarri VaMoreover, HIASA has sought to help the foundation ¨Lo Que De lencia conducted a campaign for the early detection of breast Verdad Importa¨ the communication of universal values through cancer for the workers of the plant, which includes free mammoeconomic support and with the dissemination of the associagrams in a specialized center for all interested. tion´s actions among the plant´s employees. Steel & Alloy supported the fight against cancer, by donating The plants of Brazil (AMG Paraná and AMG Campinas) help the earnings of a badminton championship. Funds for the British the cultural development in their environment, through a range Heart Foundation were also raised through participation in the of projects: half marathon of Birmingham and by walking the Great Wall of • Concertos com Conversa (Concerts with chat) aims to educate China in favor of the association “Make Some Noise”. the public in classical music. For this reason, the Symphony Orchestra of Brazil visited different regions of the state of Parana, offering free public rehearsals, talks with the musicians, etc. • Curtas de Animação, create free travelling cartoon workshops, organized by the Center of Animated Film of Campinas for the students of public schools. The short films made are shown in free movie sessions accessible to all audiences. • Piolin Circus is a free theatrical performance of 5 sessions for families in need, in homage to the Brazilian clown Abelardo Pinto. In addition, juggling sessions, acrobatics and comedy shows were attended by 400 people. • A Pequena Abelha e a Árvore Alta, is a cultural project that offers the possibility to widen the cultural horizon of the city of Curitiba through small performances, based on the story of Jamilsa de Mello. • Together with Belgo Beckaert, a 5-month cultural circuit has been developed in which free theatre plays for children and adults were organized, thanks to the help of the ¨Arcelor Foundation¨ Finally, HIASA participated as a sponsor in a solidary project in its region in favor of two children from Asturias who needed help. 72 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Social well-being HIASA, Gonvarri Portugal and Gonvarri Tarragona have collected solidary bottle caps to help children with health proEducation blems. Gonvarri Colombia supported the Institution ¨Pedro Estrada¨ in Gonvarri Portugal supports the “Associação Meninos de the development of a cultural, recreational and ecological week, Ouro” with the collection of clothes, toys, books, educational bringing the educational community together and fostering comaterial and office furniture. existence, values and a culture of peace among the center´s The employees of AMG Campinas donated 1,300 kg of food students. which went to the most underprivileged communities in the Furthermore, via the National Learning Service (SENA) it helped society. the technical and technological education of youths with scarce Steel & Alloy carried out different activities throughout the social and economic resources through scholarships. year, such as a raffle to raise funds for the “Compton Orphanage” Gonvauto Navarra, had a stand of the foundation “Síndrome de Dravet” in its open day, to explain about the syndrome, to sell its hand-made products and also to show a video about actions for school integration. At the end of the day, the money raised with the raffle was donated in full to the foundation. AMG Campinas helps the hospital ¨Pequeño Principe¨ to offer quality and humanized medical attention, not only through medical, psychosocial and educational activities but also through interdisciplinary, cultural and fun activities. Gonvauto Galicia, collaborated with ¨Aldeas infantiles in a project where all employees with children were give a kit containing: a recyclable bag, a demountable wooden Christmas ball, paints, etc. so that each child could decorate their own bauble. With all of these, the ¨Gonvauto Galicia friendship tree was completed and placed in the factory. Afterwards 2,000 euros were donated to Aldeas Infantiles. Gonvarri Valencia financed an excursion with the Disabled Association called “Camp de Morvedre”, with a bus and a boat adapted for a trip from Albufera to Valencia. In addition, an economic contribution was made to help with the printing of calendars for subsequent sale. Environment Gonvauto Puebla donates uncontaminated wood to the African Safari Zoo, in support for the protected Parque Nacional Izta Popo in Mexico. The wood is used for the construction and reparation of the recreation area of the animals, as well as for building toys and food storage. AMG Campinas has created the group Protectors of the Environment with the purpose of raising awareness and making its employees, relatives and friends participate. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 73 Emotional Driving Having an impact on the reduction of traffic accidents, through its Road Safety division, developing and improin volume and severity, is possible in two ways. ving the protection and containment mechanisms on On one hand, we can take action on Passive Road Sahighways. fety, which is to say, by acting on the improvement of Since 2014 we have promoted a culture of ¨Road saferoad conditions, the improvement of the signaling and ty¨ through the program Emotional Driving, in line with the placement of containment systems. We can also our commitment to the Sustainability Development take action through the sensitization of drivers to avoid Goals, specifically with section 3.6, to contribute to the unsafe behaviors at the wheel. Companies can try to reduction of traffic accidents and fatalities. tackle this by sensitization of their workers and by imThis year a brochure was designed and distributed in plementing Road safety plans. Gonvarri takes action in which the what, why and how Emotional Driving is both areas. Helping to save lives, through road safedone was summarized. This was in addition to the acty, is part of Gonvarri´s commitment to the Society; a tions taken which were focused on different groups of commitment it pursues as part of its Business Model, interest, such as employees, youths and children. 2 Why Emotional Driving ? Awarene ss A large percentage of our employee travel by car to their work s place. 1,300,000 400,000 Annually, more than proximity 1.3 million people die Annually more than 400,000 people die in emotion positivity in traffic accidents occupational accidents worldwide. in the world. wants to raise the Emotional Driving ty through iety on road safe 1 out of 5 fatal awareness of soc and close values. emotional, positive traffic accidents is an 1 out of 3 fatal work occupational one. accidents is related to traffic. belt We want to be your seat 3 out of 4 traffic acciden ts are “in itinere”. It not only affects transp ortation professionals. It might happen to all of us. * According to World Health Organization data. 74 3 e manage How do wl Driving ? Emotiona Ma no má, papá util el icé , mie móv is con ntrasil duc ís rs Youngste Children 74 Employees d Future Motivate driversol Our drivers High Scho drivers Primary and and Unive rsity secondary 74 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Our drivers Our personnel complete more than 5 million commutes per year. That is why they have been Emotional Driving´s primary focus. From the initiatives focused on our group of employees, we would like to highlight the following: With the slogan ¨We want to be your seatbelt¨, Emotional Driving carried out two raise awareness and sensitization campaigns coinciding with periods when there is a high number of car journeys, such as during the Easter and Summer holidays. The Easter campaign consisted of a video that highlighted the problem area of traffic accidents and the deaths derived from ¨in-itinere¨ journeys, in other words, commutes from home to work and vice versa. One of the most important conclusions we drew from the roadshows we conducted throughout the past year, is that relatives and children are the main reason that we employees put what they have learned about this subject to are motivated to drive in a better way. This is why the campaign the test. showed special importance to the family, to transmit values and • In partnership with the Royal Automobile Club, training with to raise awareness on road safety issues. the commercial team of Gonvarri Iberia on driving techniques The summer campaign brought a message to raise awareness in emergency situations or unfavorable road conditions. about the importance of responsible driving and with Augmented The plants have continued to emphasize the sensitization and Reality technology. A new mobile application was presented in awareness of road safety, not only towards employees, but also which the contents of the book ¨Reflections to understand road towards their relatives and children. This has been possible due safety with optimism (Reflexiones para entender la seguridad to the open days that were held: activities related to educatiovial con optimismo)¨ were shown with Augmented Reality and nal talks performed by health workers and police, games for the participants were given the possibility to interact with it. Addiyoungest and cutting-edge technology were used to reinforce tionally, several training courses in this matter were conducted the message of Emotional Driving. so that the employees could take the maximum advantage from To close the year, the video ¨ On Christmas forget about the mothis technology. bile phone at the wheel ¨ aimed to prevent the use of the mobile We gave our employees the chance to see an illustrated exposiphone while driving and, in doing so, avoiding traffic accidents. tion about tires and the proper conditions of these for safe driving. The video was well received and had over 200,000 views on In addition we carried out various training and sensitization acall the social media profiles of Emotional Driving (YouTube, Twitions in road safety, of which we highlight the following: tter, Facebook and LinkedIn), being shared around 1,000 times, • ¨Escuela de Conducción¨, with two short audiovisual pills that with around 300 likes, etc. Looking beyond numbers, the great gather different driving advice, such as: the correct position beimpact and success of the video is due to the leading national fore beginning a trajectory and the correct use of the seatbelt. and international institutions regarding road safety that shared These videos are complemented by questionnaires in which its contents. Christmas campaign On Christmas, forget about the mobile phone at the wheel 2.500 260,000 shared views 700,000 +150 users likes +6,000 views +100 retweets +1,700 impressions +1,000 views Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 75 Motivated drivers Primary and ESO Education Could there be a higher motivation to drive safely and responsibly than the insights of your own relatives and children? In partnership with AESLEME, numerous schools and study centers in the Madrid Community were visited, where the children were made aware of the importance of driving safely through a presentation and case studies. The children were also invited to collaborate and transmit the lessons learned and the importance of parents not having distractions at the wheel. This first edition of EDSchool reached over 1,000 students and saw wide participation in which the students themselves addressed their parents with motivational messages so that they adjust their risky behaviors and drive more safely and responsibly. Given the success of this initiative, which was started in the beginning of the year, Emotional Driving renewed its collaboration with AESLEME, with an eye to the new school year after summer, to carry out the second edition of EDSchool. new schools, new children and more awareness. Moreover, in collaboration with the City Council of Pozuelo, a road safety drawing and slogan contest was held among the municipality´s schools, in which students sent a positive message to their parents Finally, taking advantage of the open days that were organized on a about driving safely. national level in all production plants of Gonvarri, and to which their employees attended with their families and children, an initiative aimed at the youngest took place. They drew their understanding of road safety together with a message for their parents so that they drive safely and responsibly. 76 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Future drivers High school and University students The partnership with Movistar Emotional Driving made, enabled As a complementary element to this sensitization message, Emous to have a presence in 8 national congresses of the LQDVI tional Driving made a roll-over simulator available to the students Foundation, where the message of responsible use of the mobile that attended, in which they were able to experience personally phone was transmitted to over 10,000 youths. an accident of this nature. Youths in high schools and the first year of university in cities as It should be noted that employees that work in the different GonBarcelona, Palma de Mallorca, Bilbao, Malaga, Seville, La Coruña, varri production plants throughout Spain attended the congresMadrid and Valencia were moved by the awareness message of ses and saw their commitment to road safety reinforced. Emotional Driving. This message was conveyed by Julio Garcés, professional firefighter and presenter of Emotional Driving, who sensitized and made attendees aware, from a positive perspective, of the importance of road safety and safe and respectful driving. Julio simulates driving and speaking with the attending audience through a videoconference until the connection suddenly gets lost, implying a traffic accident. After a few seconds, Julio shows up on stage to continue his plea for driving without distractions. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 77 Our commitment to the SDGs Gonvarri is a Company that compromise with the society. Also, as important agent in the automotive sector one of our priorities is minimize the negatives impacts in case of accidents. Since 2014, through Emotional Driving program we promote a Safety road culture, along with our commitment with the Sustainable Development Goals, in concrete with the point 3.6 to contribute reducing the deaths and traffic accidents. Goal 3 Goal 11 Ensure healthy lives Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and and promote well-being sustainable. 11.2 Target: By 2030, provide SUSTAINABLE Good health for all at all ages. access to safe, affordable, accessible and CITIES AND and well-being 3.6 Target: By 2020, sustainable transport systems for all, COMMUNITIES halve the number of improving road safety, notably by expanding global deaths and public transport, with special attention to injuries from road traffic the needs of those in vulnerable situations, accidents. women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons. Presentations Awards and In the course of 2017, Emotional Driving participated in different conacknowledgements gresses and events related to, among others, health, security, road saIn 2017 Emotional Driving has received several awards for fety and occupational well-being. The Congress ¨Prevencionar sobre initiatives done in 2016. Among them, the silver award in Salud, Seguridad y Bienestar Laboral (Prevencionar in Health, Security the category Corporate Communication PR Campaign, in and Occupational wellbeing)¨, to which Emotional Driving was invited the International Business Awards, and the silver iNova to present their project, guidelines, initiatives and also their future plans award in the category Video of Corporative Social Resor commitment to the SDGs of the United Nations. ponsibility, which put value on the campaign ¨road safety is also for children¨. In this campaign, the youngest of the family become the advisors of their own parents and enCommitment to road safety courage them in a very original way to drive safely. Furthermore, Emotional Driving received a special mention 7 employees of Gonvauto Barcelona participated as a cycling team in in the Innovation and Health Awards of the insurance asthe 2nd edition of the 24h MADFORM BiCircuit that took place the 22nd sociation Universal, where Emotional Driving´s capacity and 23rd of April in the circuit of Montmeló, Catalonia. The real backsto promote the health and well-being was acknowledged. tory to the event is to help improve and raise awareness for road safety. This way, the insurance association Universal distinguished Gonvarri for its values such as the promotion of health, improving the life of people and their leading role in the Social Action development of safe and healthy working environments. Annually, our sister company conducts a solidary gymkhana to raise funds and material goods to be donated to different solidary projects. As a token of their commitment to the most underprivileged, Emotional Driving and Gonvarri helped the initiative with the provision of material for the project. 78 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 The Code of Ethics 102-16 and 102-17 Just as the chapter of “Our business” summarizes, a thoFurthermore, the Compliance Committee and the Ethics rough revision on the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Channels have been redefined to bring to their attention functioning of the complaint channels and the different any of the undue situations, doubts, queries or shown compliance policies were completed. malpractices, as well as legal or disciplinary measures. The Code comprises of an express declaration of the vaAn audit plan will be made annually to verify its adequalues, principles and behavioral guidelines that must be te dissemination and compliance. A new Code of Ethics adopted by the people of the Group in their professional and Conduct was approved by the Board of Directors in role, regarding topics such as relations with customers, September 2017 and the so were the Action Protocols employees, collaborators, providers and the communiof the Ethics Channel in January 2018. ty, and so consolidating the existing trust between the In 2017 no sensitive activities considered to have a Group and third parties. relevant impact on the company´s different operations, The employees, directors, managers and collaborators regarding Human Rights, forced or child labor, were of the Group are obligated to know and respect this identified. (408-1 and 409-1) Additionally, controls Code, just as to explicitly accept the full content of the to mitigate potential risks have been put in place. Such Code, and especially the principles and operating stanas, among others, through the principles defined in the dards established within it. Code of Conduct and the for employees available Ethics Channel. Values Honesty Humility Tenacity Work Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 79 Ethics Channel Communication and Regulation of the Ethics Channel Training Define the principles of functioning and the terms of use on which the After the approval of all the compliance policies and the Ethics Channel is based, just as the functions and responsibilities of Ethics and complaints Channel´s guidelines, an ambitious each of its bodies committed to the management and processing of the communication and training plan has been devised for queries/complaints. 2018. The training conducted in 2017 is included in the The Ethics channel is open to all employees, directors, managers and section Training (205-2). collaborators of the Gonvarri Group and to other external stakeholders, In the first trimester of the year, the Code of Ethics will be such as customers, providers or society in general, with the objective to translated into all the languages of the countries in which consult doubts about the applications of the Code of Ethics and ConGonvarri has a presence, as well as the different policies duct, as well as to inform of possible irregularities that come with the and guidelines. Additionally, didactic material and training breach thereof. courses, both online and on-site, will be prepared for the The Compliance Committee will be the managing body of the Ethics adequate dissemination in all the countries. Channel that must establish Action Protocols to analyze, to investigate, The training mainly revolves around the Code of Ethics to draw conclusions and to communicate the results of received comand the complaint channels as a legal framework for all plaints. The Committee will periodically report on its activity managing the employees. This will begin with a pilot test in the Nathe Ethics Channel: the number of queries and complaints received, varra plant according to the result and with the relevant complaints concerning critical situations, state of complaints, etc. to the improvements, and will be extended to all plants of the Board of Directors and its members. Similarly, any relevant issue will Group, being mandatory for all Group employees. also be reported if necessary. Furthermore, this planned training clarifies different poThe external provider (i2ethics) is in charge of providing and maintailicies in depth, aimed at those areas and departments ning an accessible channel, guaranteeing the confidentiality of the where these are most directly applied. communications made, safeguarding and filing the data according to the applicable regulations, and acting as an intermediary between the user and the Compliance Committee to guarantee the confidentiality as an operating principle. There are different possible ways to access the Ethics Channel: By sending a form through the electronic platform, available at https://gonvarristeelservices.i2ethics.com, which is also accessible through the webpage of the Group http://www.gonvarristeelservices.com @ By sending an email to the email address: ethicschannel@gonvarri.com By sending regular post to the postal address: Auditoría Interna y Cumplimiento C/Embajadores s/n 28053 Madrid. Spain By telephone through the Call Back option available on the platform https://gonvarristeelservices.i2ethics.com Once the query/complaint has been communicated through the given platform or through one of the other available media, the user will receive an email from the external provider (i2ethics) with information to confirm the information sent to the Channel and start of their operation. Finally, the Ethics Committee that was in effect in 2017 received a complaint for ¨Illegitimate use of charge or inappropriate behavior¨ which has been closed (406-1). 80 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Energy and Energy Efficiency Energy consumption The production process of Gonvarri Steel Services is inInternal energy consumption 302-1 tensive in its energy consumption, mainly in the plants In 2017, Gonvarri Steel Services used a total of 651,128 that have galvanic and zinc coating processes. For this GJ of energy, which do not originate from renewable reason, the main points in the environmental managesources, of which 366,851GJ come from electrical conment system are the monitoring, reduction and control sumption (scope 2) and 284,277 GJ from LPG, natural of the energy consumption. gas, propane and diesel (scope 1). Practically all electric energy consumption in our facilities is committed to production. Only around 6% of the total amount is used in air conditioning. The table included shows the distribution as a function of the consumption type and country. Distribution according to the type of energy consumption GLP Natural gas Propane Diesel Country Electricity (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) Germany 15,212 5,507 Argentina 3,958 1,130 Brazil 24,223 3,503 23,185 10 China 13,208 11,254 Colombia 6,259 578 21,824 205 Spain 233,439 182,532 566 5,154 USA 13,088 160 83 4,343 52 Mexico 10,075 2,261 22 Poland 6,672 5,106 Portugal 6,585 83 268 U.K. 12,018 46 12,029 1 Czech Republic 7,734 1,580 Russia 4,811 11 2,744 Turkey 9,569 39 1 366,851 6,559 263,139 8,867 5,712 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 81 External Energy Consumption Energy Efficiency Gonvarri Steel Services manufactures different products/for302-4 mats, with different finishes, moreover, depending on the geoThe energy efficiency for Gonvarri is focused on keeping production graphical situation, the usual transport type is also variable highly efficient through the integration of new technologies and hi(ship, train, truck, etc.) This makes the calculation and availability gh-performance equipment, that contribute to the continuous imof data for the scope 3 estimation complex and the calculation provement of the operational and production processes. methodology will be implemented gradually and is expected For this reason, through the project ECO-ENERGY: to have all the energy information and the carbon footprint in 2022 (302-2). • We monitor our ¨PRO-EFFICIENCY¨ consumption and we have complete information in the plants where the implementation has been completed, which allows us to analyze and detect the less efficient equipment and processes. Renewable Energy • We define, plan and implement energy optimization and improveIn 2010 a photovoltaic facility was put into operation in Gonvament projects in our plants. rri Navarra with an output of 1,9 GJ, and in 2011 the facilities of • We have numerous records of the consumption and real, objectiGonvauto Barcelona with 2,5 GJ output and Gonvarri Barcelona ve information regarding achieved savings, regarding the different with an output of 2,0 GJ. The yearly production in 2017 rose to implemented methods. 7,380 GJ (which was all sold to 3rd parties) and the consumption The scope of these projects includes measures aimed at reducing rose to 39 GJ. not only the electric consumption but also the consumption of naProduction tural gas, which gives an estimated distribution of savings of 60% in 3 electricity and 40% in natural gas. 2,653 GJ The ECO-ENERGY project is gradually being introduced to our plants. 2 2,600 GJ 2,127 GJ In continuation the planning for next years is shown: 1 0 Gonvarri Gonvarri Gonvauto PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION Navarra Barcelona Barcelona MONITORING SYSTEM Energy Intensity 2016 2017 2018 Gonvauto Barcelona Gonvarri Barcelona Gonvauto South Carolina 302-3 Gonvarri Burgos Gonvarri Tarragona Gonvarri Turquía Gonvarri Steel Services considers that a good way to measure efficiency and the impact of its processes is by measuring the Gonvauto Galicia Gonvauto Thüringen Steel & Alloy Bridge energy intensity. The resulting yearly ratio is calculated by diviStreet ding the energy consumption, by the weight of all products sold Gonvarri Aluminium Steel & Alloy West Gonvarri Valencia Thüringen Bromwich in each country. Steel & Alloy Popes For this calculation both the electricity and fuels (LPG, natural Gonvarri Portugal Gonvarri Polonia Lane gas, propane and diesel) that correspond only to the internal Hiasa Gonvauto Puebla Sgk Kaluga energy consumption are considered. As shown below: Gonvauto Asturias Gonvarri Argentina Country INTENSITY (GJ/tons of product sold) AMG Campinas Germany 0.07 AMG Paraná Argentina 0.10 Brazil 0.10 In 2017, 17 replacement and improvement measures China 0.58 were taken, mainly in Europe and Brazil. These meaColombia 1.53 sures are estimated to lead to a theoretical reducSpain 0.24 tion in energy consumption of 2.74 GWh/year. USA 0.15 Likewise, in 2018 20 possible new measures Mexico 0.04 have been studied, which are currently pending Poland 0.07 approval. Portugal 0.04 With the introduced ESMs we have, from the U.K. 0.08 beginning of the project to the 31st of DeCzech Republic 1.94 cember 2017, estimated an annual saving Russia 0.11 of 7.96 GWh/year. The objective is to reach Turkey 0.18 savings of 12 GWh/year by 2020. 0.17 82 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Climate Change Risks and opportunities associated with climate change 201-2 2015, 2016 and 2017 have been confirmed as the three warmest years to date. 2016 continues to keep the world record, Risks although 2017 has been the warmest year without the El • Between 1880 and 2012, the Niño phenomenon. According to an established analysis of the average global temperature World Meteorological Organization (WMO), the average surfaincreased by 0.85 degrees Celsius. ce temperature in 2017 was approximately 1.1 degree Celsius • The oceans have warmed up, higher than in the pre-industrial era. the quantity of snow and ice has To minimize this effect, it is necessary to embrace a broad randiminished, and sea levels have ge of technological measures and behavioral changes. risen. Along this line, as directed by the guidelines set by the Paris Cli• Given the current situation, it is mate Agreement (COP 21), in 2017 the representatives of the probable that at the end of the countries held the Bonn Climate Change Conference (COP 23). century the increase in global This year was of special importance as the global emissions of temperatures will have exceeded CO2, continued to grow to 41.5 gigatons, the same figure as in 1.5 degrees Celsius. 2015 when it reached this historical record high. • The world CO2 emissions have risen The most striking increase is in the emissions derived from fosby almost 50% since 1990. sil fuels and the industry, which make up almost 90% of the • Between 2000 and 2010 there has total emissions generated by human activity, and will reach been a larger increase in emission 36.8 gigatons after 3 consecutive years of stagnant emissions. than in the three previous decades. Its distribution is uneven, while it is estimated that industrial emissions and emissions from fossil fuels dropped in the United Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate States and the European Union by respectively 0.4% and 0.2 %, in the case of China and India significant increases of 3.5% and 2% are foreseen. In the rest of the world, an increase of 1.9% is forecast. DISTRIBUTION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA IN % OF THE GLOBAL EMISSIONS OF C02 OF FOSSIL ENERGIES AND INDUSTRY % ANNUAL GROWTH Rest of the world +1.9% 40.8% China India 6.8% 28.5% +3.5% +2% 9.5% EU -0.2% 14.4% USA -0.4% Source: Carbon Global Projet. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 83 Greenhouse gas emissions By measuring its carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, Gonvarri SteDirect and indirect Emissions el Services contributes to improving the communication of its 305-1 and 305-2 impact and to the collection of specific data with the aim of setting possible improvement goals. The direct emissions of greenhouse gasses (scope 1) come from the combustion of fuel in the production process (natural Regarding the calculation of the CO2 emissions, these are regas, propane, and diesel) and amount to 19,710 tons of CO2. ported as directed by the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG ProThe indirect emissions (scope 2) are those generated in electric tocol) standard, taking the emission factors provided by the power generation plants as a result of the electric consumption International Energy Agency (2013) as a reference. in plants and offices, which amounts to 34,433 tons of CO2, and raise the total to 54,143 tons of CO2. In the included table the distribution by country is shown. DISTRIBUTION BY COUNTRY LPG Natural Gas Propano Diesel Electricity Country (tons CO2) (tons CO2) (tons CO2) (tons CO2) (tons CO2) Germany 382 2,016 Argentina 72 429 Brazil 226 1,610 1 458 China 782 2,803 Colombia 37 1,516 16 188 Spain 12,676 40 402 18,870 USA 10 6 274 4 1,829 Mexico 146 2 1,259 Poland 355 1,446 Portugal 5 21 554 U.K. 3 835 -1,472 Czech Republic 110 1,270 Russia 1 175 584 Turkey 3 1,255 423 18,275 566 446 34,433 Regarding indirect emissions from other sources, we consideIts distribution is shown next (305-3): rate in this scope the emissions derivate from corporate travels that amount to 3,910 tons of CO2, and the emissions derived Corporate trips from the employee’s commute reach to 12,138 tons of CO2, have been estimated through a transports survey carried out in 2014, by updating the number of employees. Rental car Travel by plane 58 3,835 tons CO2/year tons CO2/year Travel by train 17 tons CO2/year Employee transportation 12,138 tons CO2/year 84 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Emission Intensity Avoided indirect emissions 305-4 305-5 Gonvarri Steel Services also takes note of the emission intensity The company is very aware of the possible negative effects that to measure the efficiency and impact of its processes. can induce climate change and against this real risk, Gonvarri conThe resulting yearly ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of its tributes to its mitigation through its Solar Steel division. direct and indirect emission (305-1 and 305-2) by the total weiThe main activity of this division is the manufacturing and provight of all the products sold in each country. In the following table sion of solar structures, mainly fixed structures with a single-axis the obtained results are specified: tracker, that are part of photovoltaic plants which are built to generate renewable energy without greenhouse gas emissions. EMISSIONS INTENSITY In 2017, solar structures for the installation of a total of 1,729 Country (tons CO2/tons of sold product) MW were provided, distributed over 15 countries. By calculating, Germany 0.009 among others, the net sun radiation hours per project, as well as the percentage of the total cost of the project that these strucArgentina 0.010 tures and the conversion ratio in each country, we estimate to Brazil 0.005 have contributed to the avoidance of a total of 222,842 tons of China 0.085 CO2 in 2017. Colombia 0.093 Similarly, regarding the energy savings derived from the ESMs Spain 0.018 introduced in Spain, Poland and Brazil, a total of 730.8 tons CO2 USA 0.018 were avoided, 440 tons CO2 by electricity savings and 290,8 Mexico 0.005 tons CO2 in gas savings. Poland 0.011 Portugal 0.003 Emissions derived from other sources U.K. 0.008 305-7 Czech Republic 0.287 Regarding emissions derived from other sources, these are few Russia 0.011 and isolated in our business, as the majority of the plants are not Turkey 0.024 submitted to regulatory controls. The plants that perform special 0.014 treatments (galvanization, zinc coating, etc.), where controls are carried out by a certified body with the periodicity established in the corresponding licenses and legal requirements, are affected. Next, we summarize the main emissions: Particles Country NOx (tons) SO2 (tons) CO (tons) Zn (tons) TOC (tons) VOC (tons) (tons) Spain 7.36 1.22 15 1.87 0.02 6.23 2.17 Russia 0.35 0.07 2.21 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 Turkey 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 TOTAL 7.71 1.29 17.21 1.87 0.02 6.23 2.17 In Spain 0.24 tons of NH3, 0.01 tons of KOH and 1.49 tons of HCI are emitted. CO2 produced 54,143 tons CO2 avoided Scope 1 223,572 tons 19,710 tons/CO2 Solar structures Scope 2 BALANCE 220,842 tons/CO2 34,433 tons/CO2 +169,429 Energy efficiency 731 tons/CO2 tons/CO2 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 85 Our contribution to the fight against climate change and the SDGs From our commitment to sustainability and climate change, we wish to contribute to the mitigation of these impacts and to the realization of the Sustainability Development Goals (SDG), through different initiatives that focus on the following objectives. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. SDG 7 To guarantee the access to affordable, sustainable, safe and modern energy for all, and, in particular, to contribute to doubling the rate of energy efficiency by 2030. At Gonvarri, we go for energy efficiency. We have a highly-qualified team and monitoring and measurement system in place, which we are progressively rolling out in our plants. In accordance with the results of the monitoring of the production and supporting services, we define and introduce Energy Saving Measures (ESMs) that contribute to the reduction of these consumptions. We update the monitoring and ESM introduction plan yearly, which varies depending on the new purchases or acquisitions by Gonvarri and the new plants that are under construction. Next, we forecast the energy savings and avoided CO2 emissions until 2020, based on the tendency since 2016. Goal MAE’s Accumulated savings % Savings on GSS CO2 avoided Year (GWh/year) consumption (t/year)* 2016 4 2.43 1,284 2017 7 4.26 2,247 2018 9 5.48 2,889 2019 11 6.69 3,530 2020 12 7.30 3,851 * The coefficients used in Spain have been taken as a reference, where a large part of the improvements have been implemented. The tons of CO2 avoided by reducing energy consumption vary mainly depending on the percentage reduced in the consumption of natural gas and electricity. 86 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to comSDG 13 bat climate change and its impacts. Adopting urgent measures to combat climate change and its effects Climate change affects all countries on every continent. It has a negative impact on the economy and on the life of the people, communities and countries. In the future, the consequences will be even worse. For this reason, goal 13 requires urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. The greenhouse gas emissions caused by human activity make this threat grow. In fact, emissions have never been this high. This is why Gonvarri seeks to minimize its impact on climate change, through 2 main lines. Environmental Lighter vehicles Management The CO2 emissions derived from transportation are estimated to be around 22% of the total. Within this percentage, one of the deepest carbon footprints comes from the transThrough the development and impleportation of goods and people with 72% of the total percentage. For this reason, highway mentation of environmental managetransportation has a highlighted role. ment systems we contribute by measuring our impacts and by defining Similarly, as regulation is becoming more and more restrictive in each country, climate measures that contribute to their mitichange has become a key issue in our sector. gation. To minimize this impact, various measures have been taken, such as the changing of fuels, Currently, 24 plants, which account for more aerodynamic designs, weight reductions and improving the awareness and sensiti69%, have a Certified Environmental zation of the drivers. However, this is still not enough. Management System. As a part of the In this context, Gonvarri considers that is has a responsibility and that it must contribute remaining 31%, we have the 4 Laser to the mitigation of this impact, especially considering that its auto division comprised plants (Barcelona, Valencia, Branden65% of its sales in 2017. For this reason, it is indisputable that the innovation objectives burg and the Czech Republic) whose must focus, among others, on the reduction of weight through improving the component environmental impact is low due to the materials, such as high resistance steel, composite materials and aluminium. kind of process performed. The plant in South Carolina and the new facilities (5 plants in China and Baja California) are pending to get the corresponding certification in 2018. Steel Aluminium Factories with Certified Environmental The forecasts indicate that the The use of aluminium is considerably inManagement Systems* use of AHSS steel will significantcreasing. Its main competitive advantage 100 ly increase, going beyond the 68 is its density (3 times less than that of kg of steel in current vehicles to steel) with which reductions of up to 10% 83% 75 204 kg in the vehicles of 2020. of the weight of the vehicle can be achie50 69% This will reduce the weight of the ved and a reduction in fuel consumption 25 car body by about 25%. Source: of between 5 7%. However, it is slightly 0 World Auto Steel. more expensive than steel, it requires long 2017 2018 thermic treatment and it is more difficult to weld. *Estimated over a total of 35 factories Moreover, as part of the system, we At Gonvarri we have taken the steel and aluminium received by auto in various plants have indicators that measure energy into consideration. With this figure, we can estimate our contribution with respect to consumption at our disposal, which the use of lighter materials, and thus, with fewer emissions, to be 28.28% of the total. allow us to obtain annual information Our expectations based on the new technological specifications of our customers are about the scope 1, scope 2 and, partiathat in the next year this percentage will gradually increase. lly, scope 3 emissions, as is outlined in the corresponding section. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 87 Innovation Goal: increase our competitiveness Innovation allows us to develop competitive products, access new markets, and increase added value to our customers. 88 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. SGD 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities. Innovation model At Gonvarri we understand that adaptation to the new • To capitalize on the internal talent in the company, context is a key factor. For this reason, we have creaidentifying ¨change agents¨ or innovative ¨profiles¨, ted a new, more agile and flexible Innovation Model, in designated to being the ¨levers of change¨ towards which various ideas and initiatives focused on the resa culture of innovation and a culture that is flexible to ponses the market requires in the short, medium and change. long term, are reflected through different actions: • Development of workshops focused on the detec• Definition of the Idea of Innovation and analysis in tion and assessment of ideas, based on three criteria terms of costs, complexity, immediacy, etc. (Company Impact, dedication required and technical • Definition of Internal Innovation Flow. feasibility). Internal innovation flow Workshops · VSM Plant SPG Pilot Manager · SMED Factories · STW Innovation Coordinator* Previous SPG Evolution Improvemet Supervisor / Analysis Ideas Department New categ. “innovative” Manager Innovation manager Evaluation Others Creativity workshops Spot Contributions Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 89 Product and value chain innovation, new materials The general tendency of the OEMs is focused, on one For this purpose, we have focused our endeavor to deside, on ¨mobility¨ solutions (car sharing and electric fine the Value Chain of new materials in the auto sector, cars) which include, apart from the product, services as specifically in the development of composite material lia means to provide the final customer with a service, nes (CFRP and GFRP), through diverse initiatives, which rather than just a commodity by itself. are summarized hereunder: On the other side, there have been significant advan• Design requirements of the component (componences in the development of new engines (electric, natural t´s dimensions, mechanical properties, availability, gas or hydrogen), the incorporation of technology to imetc.), jointly with the customer (TIER1). prove connectivity and the use of lighter materials that • Selection of new material providers; such as provimaintain the same safety standards. ders of polymeric matrixes and fiber providers. Along these lines, Gonvarri is working together with its • Collaboration with technological centers specialized customers and providers to develop new joint technoto optimize processes, such as with machinery partlogical solutions through new concepts in process lines ners, that allow us to see the possibilities for indusand new materials, among others. trialization of the solutions studied at the R&D level. Process Innovation in the search for added value services Oriented at the implementation of new processes as • Laser blanking project, which incorporates 2D laser well as the improving of existing processes, to improve cutting technology in a continuous production line. quality or productivity. This allows for increasing the line´s flexibility, easy In this area, we highlight the following projects: installation and launch. • Recladding Project, in which additive manufacturing technology is used (Laser Cladding) to study possible improvement in durability of different cutting elements. 90 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Process Innovation: RECLADDING The RECLADDING Project, which was started at the end of • The study and analysis of cover materials that improve the 2017 in Gonvauto Navarra, is focused on the improvement of durability of the cutting blades. cutting elements in the Blanking lines, longitudinal and Trans• Analysis of possibilities of the new Laser Cladding technology. versal, using Additive Manufacturing technology. • Mixed materials processing. The project comes with different technological challenges, as If the findings of the surface treatment of cutting blades study are outlined next: are positive, the possibility to implement the solution in the different plants of the Group may be considered. Venture Capital, technology investment, as a base for new business models Gonvarri´s strategic orientation in Venture Capital is give us a knowledge base on developing new business directed at sporadic investments in technology-based models complementary to GSS, as, for example, additive PYMES with high know-how in processes, products or manufacturing companies. technologies compatible with our business, and which Autonomous and near-autonomous vehicles The Internet of Things Advanced Target robotics Technologies Automation of knowledge work Advanced materials 3D printing Possible technologies object of Venture Capital Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 91 The new technological drivers require the adaptation of the Corporate Culture Gonvarri is immersed in a digitalization process to adapt • The Rollout of Innovative Initiatives through worksto an ever-changing market, focusing its endeavors on hops, among others three main areas. Within the internal dissemination strategy and promo• The Communication and Dissemination of the Stration of innovation, the Communication and implementegic Plan on the different levels of the company. tation Plan 2017-2018 includes various actions with • The Training of the workers on the new market tensupport material such as internal magazines, diptychs dencies in respect to the Digital Transformation cha4.0, intranet groups, Innovation Committee, monograllenge. phs with providers, informative videos, workshops, etc. 92 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Gonvarri 4.0 The digital transformation as a strategic element of Gonvarri 4.0: the Company Surface quality The project Gonvarri 4.0 is a strategic element in the control system Company with specified drivers in quality, efficiency and safety. This has as its objective to identify superficial defects in each of the manuTo develop the pilot project, the Gonvauto Galicia plant factured components in real time through was selected for its high level of operational efficiency. artificial vision techniques. These allow for A multidisciplinary team was put together, led by the the comparison of a superficial image of Innovation team, which counts with the collaboration of each piece with a previously incorporated various technological providers. database of defects in the system and, by doing so, for the online decision to reject Without or accept the said piece. This is a project defects with a high degree of uncertainty and, although we are conscious that it will not Efficiency give short-term results, it is one of the R&D Quality initiatives that might have the most impact on the operation of the plant in the future. Cost Without reduction accidents Security In this first phase, various Use-Cases were defined with their corresponding objectives. This is a multiannual project, which means that the degree of the process in the different initiatives is variable. Nevertheless, we have already selected various use-cases that show a source of competitive advantage, which is why they will be rolled out and implemented in the different plants in the Group. Additionally, in 2017 new initiatives were identified which will be incorporated in the new action pack. 11 Iniciatives & Use Cases Pilot PlaceGalicia Quick Roll-out and Crossdevelopment Crossfunctional Several team in GSS Technological Providers Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 93 1 Our Business 2 DRIVE. MANAGEMENT MODEL 3 ANNEXES 3 ANNEXES 96 Independent Review Report 98 GRI Content Index 104 Contents based on the Principles United of the Nations Global Compact 105 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies Sustainability Report 2017 95 Independent Review Report 96 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 97 GRI Content Index 102-55 External verification: The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity PwC. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. GRI Content Index Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 10 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12,16,18-19 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 √ 102-4 Location of operations 14-15, 16-17 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 √ 102-6 Markets served 12 √ Organizational profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 11 √ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 44 √ 102-9 Supply chain 39 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 10, 40 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 38 √ 102-12 External initiatives 71 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 13 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4y7 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 37-39, 55 √ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 79-80 √ Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 79-80 √ 98 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review 102-18 Governance structure 20 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 20 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 21 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 20 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 20 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 20 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 20 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 20 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 21 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 21 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 20 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 21 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 21 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 21 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 21 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 21 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 21 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 21 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 21 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 21 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio NA. Confidential √ Information 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio NA . Confidential √ Information 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 47 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 26 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26, 67 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 27, 67 √ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 105 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 27 √ 102-47 List of material topics 27 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 27 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 27, 34 √ Reporting 102-50 Reporting period 19 √ practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 19 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 19 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 19 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 19 √ 102-55 GRI content index 98 √ 102-56 External assurance 19 √ Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 99 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Economic Performance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 27 √ indicators reported in this section Economic Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 √ Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 36 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities 83-84 √ GRI 201: Economic due to climate change Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 52 √ 201-4 Financial assitance received from government 36 √ Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 40 √ Practices Anticorruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 37 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 46, 80 √ 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 23 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 23 √ Behavior practices 100 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Environmental performance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 27 √ indicators reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 √ Management Approach GRI 301: Materials 301-01: Materials used by weight or volume 63 √ Energy 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 81 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 82, Note A √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 82 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 82 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Note B √ Emissions 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 84-85 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 84-85 √ 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 84 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 85 √ 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 85 √ 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) NA √ 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air 85 √ emissions Effluents and Waste (not material) GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 63 √ Waste Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 23 √ Compliance Note A: The calculation methodology will be implemented gradually and is expected to have all the energy information and the carbon footprint in 2022. NOTA B: Does not apply. The products follow the customers’ specifications, so the company has little influence. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 101 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 27 √ indicators reported in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 43 √ GRI 401: 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 51 52 √ Employment or part-time employees 401-3: Parental leave 52 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 60 √ safety committees 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 58 √ GRI 403: Occupational absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupa59 √ tion 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 60 √ Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 46, 60 √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 46 √ Education 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develo45 √ pment reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42, 48 √ Equal Opportunity Non-discrimination GRI 406: Non-discrimi406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 23, 80 √ nation Child Labor GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 79 √ 102 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 79 √ Compulsory Labor compulsory labor Human Rights Assessment (not material) 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 46 √ GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 37 √ clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 71 √ GRI 413: Local development programs Communities 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 71 √ communities Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 36 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service Note C √ GRI 416:Customer categories Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 23 √ products and services Marketing and Labeling 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling 64 √ GRI 417: Marketing 417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 23 √ and Labeling labeling 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 23 √ Customer Privacy GRI 418: Customer 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 23 √ Privacy losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 23 √ Compliance Note C: Does not apply due to the type of product of our company. Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 103 THE GLOBAL COMPACT Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate Gonvarri Steel Services’ progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Drive: Sustainability of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights Drive: Sustainability Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Drive: Efficiency rights abuses. Drive: Profitable growth Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Drive: People collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Drive: Profitable growth compulsory labour. Labour Rights Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Drive: Profitable growth Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Drive: People employment and occupation Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Drive: Sustainability approach to environmental challenges. Drive: Efficiency Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Drive: Sustainability Enviromental environmental responsibility; and Drive: Efficiency Drive: Sustainability Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Drive: Efficiency environmentally friendly technologies. Drive: Innovation Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Our business Anti-corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Drive: Profitable growth 104 Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 Scope consolidation 102-45 of Gonvarri Steel Services and subsidiaries Scope of consolidation: the group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2017. Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country GONVAUTO THÜRINGEN, GMBH Germany GONVARRI MS CORPORATE, S.L. Spain GONVARRI AUTOMOTIVE GMBH Germany GONVASOLAR SL Spain GONVARRI ALUMINIUM, GMBH Germany GONVARRI PORTFOLIO INTERNACIONAL Spain LASER AUTOMOTIVE BRANDERBURGO, GMBH Germany GONVARRI PORTFOLIO BRASIL Spain LASER AUTOMOTIVE THURINGEN, GMBH Germany GONVAUTO ASTURIAS, S.L. Spain GONVARRI ARGENTINA Argentina LASER AUTOMOTIVE BARCELONA, S.L. Spain AMG BRASIL PROD. SIDERÚRGICOS S.A. Brazil SOLAR STEEL ENGINEERING Spain MAG ALIANÇA AUTO. DO BRASIL Brazil GMS SOLAR CONSTRUCTION, S Spain GONVARRI CHILE ESTRUCTURAS METÁLIZAS LTDA Chile ROAD STEEL ENGINEERING Spain DONGGUAN GONVARRI SUHOMITOMO China LASER AUTOMOTIVE VALENCIA, S.L. Spain Vama Gonvarri Advance AASS China Hierros Villaverde, S.A. Spain Vama Gonvarri AASS Changshu China LASER AUTOMOTIVE ZARAGOZA, S.L. Spain Vama Gonvarri AASS Shenyang China LASER AUTOMOTIVE PALENCIA, S.L. Spain Vama Gonvarri AASS Chongqing China GMS FRANCE, S.A.S. France Vama Gonvarri AASS Loudi China HIASA MONTAJES GUATEMALA, S.A. Guatemala GONVARRI MS COLOMBIA SAS Colombia HIASA MONTAJES HONDURAS, S.A. Honduras GONVAUTO SOUTH CAROLINA USA Gestamp Automotive India, Private Ltd. India GONVARRI STEEL SERVICES US,INC USA GONVARRI ITALIA, S.P.A. Italy GESTAMP SOLAR STEEL US,INC USA GONVARRI INDUSTRIAL MAROC, S.A.R.L. Morocco GONVARRI I.CENTRO DE SERVICIOS SL Spain GONVAUTO PUEBLA S.A. de C.V. Mexico GONVARRI VALENCIA, S.A. Spain MEXICANA DE SERV. LABORALES DEL ACERO Mexico GONVAUTO, S.A. Spain GONVARRI BAJA CALIFORNIA Mexico GONVAUTO NAVARRA, S.A. Spain GONVARRI POLONIA Poland HIERROS Y APLANACIONES, S.A. Spain GONVARRI PRODUCTOS SIDERURGICOS, S.A. Portugal GONVARRI TARRAGONA, S.L. Spain STEEL & ALLOY PROCESING U.K. GONVAUTO GALICIA, S.A. Spain STEEL & ALLOY HOLDING LTD U.K. GONVARRI CORPORACION FINANCIERA, S.L. Spain GONVARRI CZECH, S.R.O. Czech Republic GONVARRI VIZCAYA, S.L. Spain SEVERSTAL GONVARRI KALUGA Russia SEVERSTAL GONVARRI HOLDING, S.L. Spain CEPAS GALVANIZ, SANAYI ANOMIN SIRKETI Turkey BIKOSTAR INTERNATIONAL, S.A. Uruguay Gonvarri Steel Services Sustainability Report 2017 105 Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on Gonvarri 4.0 Drive App Gonvarri Steel Services
