VKR HOLDINg A/S Communication on Progress 2017 Submitted: August 2018 Contents Letter to our stakeholders 3 The VKR Group – What we do 6 VKR Holding 6 Roof windows & Skylights 8 Vertical windows 10 Solar thermal energy 12 Model Company Objective 15 The Foundations 16 The Velux Foundations 17 The Employee Foundation 17 VKR Holding – The Ten Principles 18 Achievements and Targets 20 Human Rights 21 Labour 22 Environment 23 Anti-Corruption 24 The Business Areas – Sustainable Development Goals 26 SDG 3: Good health and well-being 28 SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy 29 SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities 30 SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production 31 Appendices 34 Appendix 1: Group CSR Policy 34 Appendix 2: List of VKR Group Policies 36 Family house with VELUX New Generation roof windows, Vollen, Norway. Niklas Hart, 2017 (Cover photo and this photo) 2 LETTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS With this Communication on Progress (COP), VKR • I mplementation of GroupHolding A/S (VKR Holding) expresses its continued wide whistle-blower system support of the UN Global Compact and we renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its princiGoing forward, we will continue ples in the four issue areas – Human Rights, Labour, to strengthen our commitment Environment and Anti-Corruption. to the principles and before our next COP, we aim to carry out a Our business areas are all committed to the initiamore structured impact assesstive and have each joined the UN Global Compact. ment of the business activities They report individually on their progress. Consein VKR Holding. We do not expect quently, the Holding report includes the progress to identify significant adverse only at holding level. For detailed information on impacts. the activities of each business area, we refer to their individual COPs, which can be found on the This is the first COP in which companies’ websites. we incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). VKR Holding has limited For decades and in accordance with our Model direct impact on these goals and, consequently, we Company Objective, the VKR Group has developed, highlight the impacts of our business areas. In this produced and marketed products useful to society context, the products of our largest business area, while engaging in our communities. We will continue windows, have never been more relevant as people to do so and the UN Global Compact is an excellent spend an increasing amount of time indoors. The way of communicating our initiatives and results to importance of bringing daylight and fresh air into our stakeholders. people’s lives and homes to ensure good health and well-being is only growing. Solar thermal energy is I am happy that the targets we set ourselves were also more relevant than ever as the world is chalachieved before the publication of this COP: lenged by climate change and needs affordable and clean energy. • F ormulating and implementing our Group CSR Policy, which was approved by the board of VKR Holding. The full policy can be found Mads Kann-Rasmussen in Appendix 1 to this COP CEO, VKR Holding A/S 3 VELUX New Generation roof windows provide daylight and ventilation for the indoor generation. Søren Solkjær, 2018 4 5 THE VKR GROUP – WHAT WE DO VKR Holding VKR Holding is a limited holding and investment In addition, VKR Holding has a substantial portfolio company with the objective of creating value of financial investments. The portfolio consists of through investments and ownership of companies listed shares, bonds, property, private equity, etc. that bring daylight, fresh air, and a better environment into people’s everyday lives. The companies VKR Holding is majority-owned by the philanthropic operate within the following business areas: foundation VILLUM FONDEN, while the founding family retains a minority stake. • Roof windows & Skylights • Vertical windows The holding company employs around 40 people • Solar thermal energy and is located to the north of Copenhagen in Denmark. 6 Roof windows Roof windows Vertical windows Vertical windows Solar Solar Ventilation & Ventilat & Skylights & Skylights thermal energy thermal energy indoor climate indoor c * The VKR Group as at 31 December 2017 The VKR Group employed 14,900 people in 41 countries by the end of 2017. In 2017, the Group realised a turnover of EUR 2.5 billion and a profit after tax of EUR 340 million. Roof windows & Skylights is the largest business area in the Group, followed by Vertical windows, and finally, Solar thermal energy. For more information about the VKR Group, please visit our website at www.vkr-holding.com * West Port was divested on 1 July 2018. 7 Roof windows & Skylights For more than 75 years, the VELUX Group has created better living environments by bringing daylight and fresh air through the roof and into people’s homes all over the world. VELUX products create bright, healthy, energy-efficient places in which to live, work, learn and play. With 17 manufacturing companies in 9 countries, sales operations in 40 countries, and an extensive distribution network, VELUX products are widely available. The product range includes roof windows and modular skylights, as well as a variety of decorative elements, blinds, roller shutters, installation solutions, and remote controls. The VELUX Group employs around 10,000 people and is headquartered to the north of Copenhagen in Denmark. For more information about the VELUX Group, please visit the website at www.velux.com The company Altaterra Kft. is a European market leader within the private label segment with sales in more than 30 countries. Altaterra employs around 100 people of 12 different nationalities. The company is based in Hungary. For more information about the company, please visit the website at www.altaterra.eu 8 VELUX Flat roof windows FRW in house in Linz, Austria. Gerhard Schmolke, 2017 9 VELFAC 200 in residental buildings, Nine-Wells, Cambridge, UK. Simon Harvey Photography Ltd, 2015 10 Vertical windows The DOVISTA Group is a group of leading companies and brands in the North European market and markets its products in 7 different countries. At the end of 2017, the DOVISTA Group consisted of 10 independent brands* (illustrated in the overview of the VKR Group on page 7) and all the companies in the Group have their separate identity and market strategy. All have a strong presence in their local markets and enjoy a close relationship with customers and local communities. At the same time, the members of the Group share learning and create synergies between the brands, which strengthens the Group’s combined knowledge and competencies. The DOVISTA Group employs around 4,700 people and DOVISTA A/S, headquartered in Horsens in Denmark, is the active parent company of the business area. For more information about the DOVISTA Group, please visit the website at www.dovista.com *West Port was divested on 1 July 2018. 11 Solar thermal energy The Arcon-Sunmark Group is the leading supplier of large-scale solar thermal energy solutions in the world. The Group supplies solar thermal energy solutions for the district heating sector and industrial processes. A considerable proportion of the solar heating plants are turn key projects – plug-and-play solutions, which can be easily integrated and operated in synergy with existing heating solutions. The Arcon-Sunmark Group also offers storage solutions for the solar energy. The energy harvested during the summer period is stored, in the form of hot water that can be used during the winter months, which significantly extends the effective operational period of solar heating. The company employs around 150 people and has production sites in Denmark and Vietnam. The headquarters is located in North Jutland in Denmark. For more information about Arcon-Sunmark, please visit the website at www.arcon-sunmark.com 12 Arcon-Sunmark is the leading specialist within large-scale solar heating solutions. Solar Thermal Energy facility in Vrå, Denmark. Jesper Voldgaard. 2015 13 “  The purpose of the VKR Group is to establish a number of model companies, which cooperate in an exemplary manner. A model company works with products useful to society and treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories and shareholders better than most other companies. A model company makes a profit which can also finance growth and maintain financial independence. ” Villum Kann Rasmussen, 1965 14 MODEL COMPANY OBJECTIVE Corporate Citizenship has been an integral part of the VKR Group’s business strategy and business activities since the company was established in 1941. Based on VKR Holding’s mission to own and develop companies that bring daylight, fresh air and a better environment into people’s everyday lives, CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) is a natural and important element for all companies in the Group. Our CSR ambition was formulated in the Model Company Objective in 1965 by the company’s founder, Villum Kann Rasmussen. Since then, this objective has been the cornerstone of the values that all the companies in the Group are expected to act on. The founder of the VKR Group, Villum Kann Rasmussen. Mogens Carrebye, 1978 15 THE FOUNDATIONS The foundation VILLUM FONDEN is the majority Denmark and internationally. In addition to these, shareholder of VKR Holding and the main beneficiary a number of other charitable foundations are of the profits generated by the VKR Group. The founfunded directly or indirectly by the VKR Group, e.g. dation is funded directly by VKR Holding and receives Employee Foundation of the VKR Group. the majority share of yearly dividends. THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS consist of VILLUM FONDEN and In this section, some of the contributions of THE VELUX FONDEN, both philanthropic, charitable VELUX FOUNDATIONS and the Employee Foundation foundations established by Villum Kann Rasmussen. are highlighted. For more information about the They support non-profit projects with scientific, foundations, please visit our website at environmental, social and cultural purposes in www.vkr-holding.com/fonde/?lang=en 16 The Velux Foundations The Employee Foundation In 2017, VILLUM FONDEN made grants worth Employee Foundation of the VKR Group supports EUR 140 million, most grants were given to the employees in unfortunate situations, their children’s technical and natural sciences, and VELUX FONDEN education, and community projects close to the made grants worth EUR 28 million. The total VKR Group companies. amount of EUR 168 million was distributed between 916 projects and initiatives. In 2017, the Employee Foundation made grants worth EUR 1.1 million, primarily to current and retired For more information about THE VELUX employees in the event of an unfortunate situation FOUNDATIONS, please visit the website at or to their children’s education. The grants were www.veluxfoundations.dk/en distributed between 308 employees of the VKR Group and 144 community projects. HIGHLIGHTS 2017 For more information about the Employee • The Danish fire cadet programme, supported Foundation, please visit the website at since 2014, has given about 450 socially www.employeefoundation.com/en/ challenged youngsters courage and a new outlook on their future • 733 grants were given to senior citizens’ impleHIGHLIGHTS 2017 mentation of a wide range of small-scale projects • New equipment to the German football club, such as IT education, sea kayaks, preservation of SKV 1992 Birlikspor Biblis, where locals and nature, sea gardens, book publications etc. refugees play with and against each other • For the next five years, the focus of VELUX • Support of an employee of Rationel Windows FONDEN’s environmental programme will be diagnosed with cancer – the support made it on the Danish marine environment, e.g. by grants possible to arrange a spot in the yard for the to Plastic Change recipient to relax in • In the field of technical and natural sciences, • Regular brain scans at a private clinic for an two new programmes have been introduced – employee that has been through brain surgery VILLUM Investigators, supporting experienced twice due to a tumour researchers in Denmark and VILLUM Experiment, • Two converted shipping containers for an animal awarding grants to unorthodox and potentially shelter in Hungary pioneering research 17 VKR HOLDING – THE TEN PRINCIPLES In this section, we report our progress on implementAt the time of publication of this Communication ing the Global Compact principles in each of the four of Progress, we have altogether 15 policies (for an issue areas – Human Rights, Labour, Environment, exhaustive list, please go to Appendix 2). Some of and Anti-Corruption. these policies address the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and are major parts of our commitThe business areas in the VKR Group are independment to implementing the principles. The policies ent company groups with own boards of directors constitute the minimum requirements for our and managements which formulate individual business areas. The business areas may implement strategies and operate with minor direct influence additional and stricter policies and initiatives based from VKR Holding. However, VKR Holding has impleon own needs and ambitions. The boards of the busimented policies that our companies must observe to ness areas are responsible for the implementation ensure that the founder’s Model Company Objective and compliance with the above-mentioned policies. is upheld throughout the entire organisation. 18 VKR Holding fully commit to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4:  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5:  the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6:  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 19 19 ACHIEVEMENTS AND TARGETS Achievements since our first Communication on Progress Since our first COP, we have implemented two and subsequently by the boards of directors of each initiatives to strengthen our commitment to the of the business areas. The Group CSR Policy is public Ten Principles, and thus the targets we set to and it is available at our website. reach before the publication of this COP have been achieved: The responsibility of complying to the Group CSR Policy, thereby ensuring respect and support of the •  pproval and implementation of a Group CSR A Ten Principles, is allocated to the management of Policy that also addresses the Ten Principles each company in the VKR Group. Two employees in directly. The policy was adopted on the board VKR Holding are appointed to assist the responsible meeting of VKR Holding on 5 March 2018. managers in complying with the Group CSR Policy. The full policy can be found in Appendix 1 • Implementation of Group-wide whistleEmployee involvement in activities related to the blower system for the reporting of infringement implementation of the policy, and stakeholder on the principles in the four issue areas involvement in general, is appreciated and we expect them to inform managers in case of infringement. The business areas and an external human rights Infringements can also be reported through the expert were involved in the process of formulating whistle-blower system. All material input from the our Group CSR Policy to ensure that all relevant whistle-blower system will be presented to the issues were included in the policy. The policy was Audit Committee of VKR Holding. approved by the board of directors of VKR Holding Target for our next Communication on Progress Before our next COP, we want to strengthen our •  arry out a structured impact assessment of C commitment to the UN Global Compact by achieving the activities in VKR Holding – we do not expect the following target: to identify significant negative impacts 20 Human Rights CSR owner intentions Policies VKR Holding and its board of directors have defined Our Group CSR Policy directly addresses human a number of CSR intentions that all companies in rights and commits VKR Holding and the business the Group are expected to follow, and VKR Holding is areas to regularly identify, prevent or mitigate, and responsible for ensuring compliance. In general, the to provide remedial processes to potential adverse companies are expected to comply with all 15 VKR impacts. The minimum requirement is compliance Group Policies. A list of the policies is attached in with the International Bill of Human Rights and Appendix 2. Regarding human rights specifically, the the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human companies in the VKR Group must do the following: Rights. Furthermore, the policy stipulates that the same is expected of all business connections of the • n ot to tolerate any violation of universal VKR Group. rights; and • when relevant, operate in accordance In addition to the Group CSR Policy, our policies with a code of conduct on Risk Management, Legal matters, and Crisis Management indirectly address human rights. In short, these policies require VKR Holding and the Risk assessment business areas to take a qualified position on risks, to comply with all relevant legislation, and to ensure The risk of VKR Holding infringing the principles on adequate crisis management programmes regarding human rights is assessed to be very low, mainly potential, serious crises. because we operate in Denmark, where human rights are highly protected. Even though this is the case, we have policies in place to ensure that we Target respect and support human rights, because we acknowledge that our business areas are at greater Our target for our next COP in relation to human risk of infringing the principles. rights is to carry out a structured impact assessment of the activities in VKR Holding. We do not expect to identify significant adverse impacts. 21 Labour CSR owner intentions Our Risk Management Policy and Legal Policy also address the principles of labour indirectly. These VKR Holding and the board have set out the policies require VKR Holding and the business areas following expectations to the companies in relation of the Group to take a qualified position on risks to labour and the Group’s employees: and to comply with all relevant legislation – also in relation to labour. • c ontinuously improve occupational health and safety VKR Holding has published a handbook for the • provide conditions and opportunities for employees. The handbook explicitly addresses the the employees’ personal and professional employees’ responsibilities, rights, compensation, development vacation, etc., and the company’s policies. Every • no tolerance of child labour employee holds an annual review with their manager • support employees and relatives of employees where expectations, results, concerns, compenfacing unexpected unfortunate situations sation, individual targets, etc. are discussed. VKR Holding provides a comprehensive health insurance for all employees. Risk assessment The risk of VKR Holding infringing the principles on Outcomes labour is assessed to be low, primarily because the company has employees in Denmark only, where The target for gender diversity on the board of direclabour rights are highly protected. Our business tors in VKR Holding was met in 2017. The target is to areas have a global presence and have manufacturhave at least one female board member at any time ing facilities or suppliers in countries where labour and by the end of the year, there was one female rights are historically less protected, which increase board member. This corresponds to 20% of the board the risk of infringement. To minimise the risk of members. infringement, we have implemented group-wide policies, and formulated a handbook for employees In 2017, an employee satisfaction survey was in VKR Holding. completed. The results were very satisfactory and on level with comparable top-performers. Despite this, the survey indicated room for improvement Policies and based on input from the employees, a number of initiatives will be implemented in 2018. We aim to Our Group CSR Policy also addresses the labour survey employee satisfaction every second year. principles directly. The policy imposes VKR Holding and the business areas to regularly identify, prevent or mitigate, and to provide remedial processes to Target potential adverse impacts. According to the policy, VKR Holding, the business areas and all business For the issue area of labour, our target is to carry out connections are required to implement the a structured impact assessment of the activities in principles, to comply with the Declaration on the VKR Holding. Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work and the legislation in relation to Modern Slavery. 22 ENVIRONMENT CSR owner intentions constructs clean and affordable energy solutions which reduce the emission of CO2. However, our VKR Holding and its board have similarly defined business areas being production companies, we expectations for the companies’ environmental acknowledge the risk of infringing the principles impact: which we seek to minimise by way of our policies. • e valuate and if possible minimise the environmental impact from the beginning to the end Policies of a product’s lifecycle • improve water and energy efficiency and Our Group CSR Policy imposes VKR Holding and the minimise waste of raw materials in production business areas to regularly identify and prevent or to reduce adverse environmental impacts mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts • grow the proportion of renewable natural and to inform the authorities in case of an incident resources used in new products – all in alignment with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Business connections are Our ambitions go further than the Group’s internal expected to do the same. activities and the companies are also expected to: The environment principles are indirectly addressed • e ndorse relevant certification systems and in our Risk Management Policy and Legal Policy. standards regarding environment According to these policies, VKR Holding and the • work systematically on environmental issues business areas are to take a qualified position on in the construction sector, especially by risks and to comply with all relevant legislation, also committing to improving the energy in relation to environmental issues. performance of buildings • develop new standards in eco-friendly construction and influence the agenda on Target environment by forming strategic partnerships The completion of a structured impact assessment is also a target for the issue area of environment for Risk assessment our next COP. The risk of VKR Holding infringing the principles of environment is assessed to be low, mainly due to the nature of our business activities and their relatively low impact on the environment. The business areas are at a greater risk of infringing the principles but they also contribute positively in different ways. The window business areas offer energy-efficient solutions that reduce the energy consumption of buildings. The solar thermal energy business area 23 ANTI-CORRUPTION CSR owner intentions In addition to our Group CSR Policy, our Anti-Corruption Policy and Competition Law Compliance Policy Regarding anti-corruption, VKR Holding and the address the principle on anti-corruption. In short, board expect the companies: these policies impose Group companies to comply with all relevant international and/or national • t o comply with the VKR Group anti-trust law and competition law and contain Anti-Corruption Policy guidelines for appropriate behaviour in different situations. Risk assessment Our Legal Policy stipulates that Group companies are to comply with all relevant legislation which also The risk of VKR Holding infringing the principle on includes regulation on anti-corruption. anti-corruption is assessed to be low as the company operates in Denmark, which ranks second in anti-corruption*. For the business areas, the risk of Target infringing the principle is slightly higher due to the global presence and operations in countries, where Our target for our next COP in relation to anticorruption and fraud are more prevalent*. corruption is to carry out a structured impact assessment. Policies According to our Group CSR Policy and in alignment with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, VKR Holding and the business areas are required to regularly identify and prevent or mitigate potential adverse impact related to corruption, money laundering and anti-trust. The appropriate authorities should be informed in case of an incident. All business relations are expected to follow the same procedures. *According to the Corruption Perception Index 2017 from Transparency International. 24 VELUX Modular Skylights in the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE). Bonn, Germany, Jesper Blaesild, 2017 25 THE BUSINESS AREAS – SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In this section, we report on the SDGs. As a holding Our business areas have positive impact on the company with office activities and employees only in SDGs as their products and solutions are useful to Denmark, we have limited direct impact on the SDGs people and society in accordance with our founder’s but we encourage our business areas to make their Model Company Objective. Our business areas seek contributions to the goals. to maximise those to the benefit of the end-users. However, our business areas also impact some of Our business areas already do so, and on the followthe SDGs negatively, primarily due to manufacturing ing pages, we will highlight a selection of initiatives activities. Our business areas seek to reduce any and make a status on the realisation of the targets. negative impact. For detailed information on the activities of each business area, we refer to their individual COPs, which are available on the companies’ websites and on the UN Global Compact’s website. Arcon-Sunmark A/S Skørping Nord 3 DK-9520 Skørping CVR: 10 77 85 30 Tel. +45 9839 1477 mail@arcon-sunmark.com Sustainability Report 2017 PDF Edition – 63 pages UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2017 COMMUNICATION FEBRUARY 2018 ON PROGRESS MENNESKERET TIGHEDER ARBEJ DSTAGERRET TIGHEDER MILJ Ø ANTI-KORRUPTION 2017 VELUX.com/our-company/sustainability 26 Our business areas’ contribution to the SDGs Below, please find a list of the most relevant SDGs that our business areas contribute to. The numbers listed below each SDG refer to the relevant underlying targets which were adopted by the UN General Assembly in July 2017: Roof windows Vertical windows Solar thermal & Skylights energy Very high 3.4, 3.9 3.4, 3.9 7.2, 7.3 High 7.2, 7.3 7.2, 7.3 Moderate 11.1 12.2, 12.5 12.2, 12.5 12.2, 12.5 27 SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Roof windows & Skylights Vertical windows Many people live in damp and unhealthy buildings, DOVISTA products are continuously developed and and we spend more and more time indoors. This tested by the companies of the DOVISTA Group and exposes many people to the risk of developing the DOVISTA Innovation Centre to improve their asthma and allergies. Additionally, many people positive impact. suffer from lack of daylight. The VELUX Group helps combat these problems by bringing daylight and The DOVISTA Group’s independent knowledge and fresh air through the roof into people’s homes. communication centre, LIVINGlab by DOVISTA, researches new potentials for windows and doors in By the project, Sustainable Living in Buildings, fullpresent and future buildings in cooperation with the scale building experiments were conducted which front-runners of the construction industry and the brought valuable insights on how VELUX products universities. perform. These insights were shared with millions of readers, thousands of building owners as well as professionals, and more than 50 scientific papers were published. The next step is VELUX ACTIVE which take advantage of smart home technology and automation to support the vision of sustainable products and optimal indoor climate. 28 SDG 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Roof windows & Skylights Vertical windows Buildings account for a significant proportion of the The DOVISTA Group prioritises development of energy consumption in the world, and in Europe they energy efficient solutions and support new, stricter account for 40%. VELUX roof windows are carefully standards for sustainable construction. Developdesigned to minimise heat loss and maximise solar ment is always based on current legislation and an heating via the pane. Through building experiments, intention to strive for fulfilling the strictest requirethe VELUX Group has demonstrated that being comments to insulating power. DOVISTA products have pliant with the EU 2020 Energy Strategy is possible the relevant energy and indoor climate certificates with existing technologies. that are required in the markets they are sold in. All production and warehouse sites are certified Since 2010, the number of produced units has inaccording to the ISO 14001 environmental managecreased by 40% but the total amount of CO2 emitted ment. All sites will be certified in accordance with has only been increased by 18%. This equates with the more demanding ISO 14001:2015 by September a reduction of CO2 emitted per unit produced by 2018. The VELUX code of conduct requires suppliers approximately 16%. The DOVISTA Group’s target for to apply environmental management systems. the coming year is to continue the reduction of CO2 emitted per unit produced. The VELUX Group works to reduce its CO2 emission by means of high energy efficiency and by transitioning to renewable energy sources. The Group has Solar thermal energy invested in on-site renewable energy, such as a solar cell plant and bio-boilers at factories, and commitThe Arcon-Sunmark Group supplies large-scale ted to gradually acquiring Guarantee of Origin (GO) solar thermal energy solutions and naturally off-shore wind-power certificates. In 2017, 24% of the contributes to increasing the share of renewable energy consumed was supplied by renewable energy energy in the global energy mix, thus reducing CO2 sources. These and similar initiatives have resulted emissions. As a rule of thumb, 10 square meters of in a 34.2% reduction of the CO2 emission compared solar collectors reduce CO2 emissions by 1 ton per to the 2007 baseline and it is expected to be year. Additionally, the Group provides affordable, reduced further in the coming years. The target is reliable and modern energy as solar thermal energy a 50% reduction in 2020. is a proven and cost-efficient source of energy. 29 SDG 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Roof windows & Skylights The VELUX Group has co-developed an affordable and sustainable renovation approach which has been tested in the RenovActive model home. The concept was designed to be easily scalable, replicable and affordable within social housing renovation budgets. In the coming years, 86 properties in Brussels are to be renovated using this approach. The VELUX Group contributed to a new concept for student housing – scrapped containers rebuilt into small, sustainable flats where VELUX windows were installed to ensure daylight and fresh air through the roof. These container flats can be placed temporarily on free plots of land and alleviate the need for affordable and attractive dwellings for students, especially in major cities. More projects like this are planned in cities around the world. 30 SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Roof windows & Skylights ed to avoid similar accidents in the future. In 2017, reports count 6.6 work-related accidents per one The VELUX Group has a safety vision of zero work-remillion working hours (only production hours) lated injuries. In 2017, 2.5 work-related accidents per compared to 8.5 the year before and a target of a one million working hours were reported compared 25% reduction, which was not met. to 1.9 the year before with a target of 1. Even though the internal target was not met, the accident rate Waste and surplus from production are recycled is four times lower than the comparable industry or used for other purposes to the widest possible benchmark. All manufacturing sites sustain the extent. In 2017, 92% of waste was reused or recycled OHSAS 18001 certification. compared to 96% in 2016. The environmental impact of VELUX windows is As far as possible, wood waste from production is assessed through life cycle analyses. The analyses used for heating of own buildings. In 2017, 38% of the document that VELUX windows can be CO2 net DOVISTA Group’s total energy consumption came positive throughout their life cycle. In 2017, the from wood waste from production, down from 46% VELUX Group developed a new tool for Environmenthe year before. tal Product Evaluation which is based on current and future EU regulation. The DOVISTA Group endeavours to source wood from certified suppliers. In 2017, 87% came from The VELUX Group has an ambition of generating zero certified suppliers, down from 89% in 2016. The aim waste in its production. In 2017, 97% of waste was for the coming year is to increase the proportion of reused in other products or used for heat production. wood from certified suppliers. 99.5% of the wood used for the European VELUX The DOVISTA Group, represented by VELFAC, particwindow production is sourced from certified, ipate in the Circle House project. The Circle House is sustainable forests, up from 98% last year. the first social housing project in the world, where up to 90% of the materials used can be recycled with almost no value loss. The DOVISTA Group also Vertical windows use a life cycle assessment approach to reduce the carbon footprint and the general impact on the The DOVISTA Group has formulated and impleenvironment. mented the “Work Health and Safety” policy in all companies. This policy supports the work towards the long-term target of zero work-related accidents. Solar thermal energy According to the policy, the management is solely responsible for the prevention of accidents and In 2017, the Arcon-Sunmark Group developed and iminjuries. Every month, all accidents are reviewed plemented a working environment policy with more by upper management in the DOVISTA Group and than 20 defined initiatives to reduce accidents and by the management of the company in which the injuries in the work place. The Group also invested a accident(s) happened. In the review, the cause of the substantial amount in security measures, for examaccident as well as the severity of the injury are ple clearly marked walk ways around and between determined, and corrective actions are implementmanufacturing areas to reduce the risk of accidents. 31 32 VELUX roof windows and VELFAC sliding door in a Danish residence. Jesper Jørgen Fotografi, 2017 33 APPENDICES Appendix 1: Group CSR Policy This policy describes the approach to be taken in 1. Respect human rights relation to the corporate social responsibility (CSR) of the VKR Group based on the UN Global Compact, i.e. adopt a policy commitment to establish and which we have signed, and the internationally maintain human rights due diligence, where the agreed minimum standards for responsible business companies regularly identify, prevent or mitigate conduct – the UN Guiding Principles for Business and their potential adverse impacts, and provide for Human Rights (UNGP) and the OECD Guidelines for access to remedy for actual adverse impacts; at a Multinational Enterprises (OECD). minimum in relation to the human rights contained in the International Bill of Human Rights, that also The policy applies to VKR Holding A/S and afﬁliatcontains the rights referenced in the International ed companies in which VKR Holding A/S owns or Labour Organization as reﬂected in the Declaration controls, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of on the Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work. the votes or value of outstanding shares (the “VKR It shall be noted that impacts in relation to Modern Group”). Slavery and the right to safe and healthy working conditions are included in such due diligence, It is the purpose of the VKR Group to establish a number of model companies, which co-operate in an exemplary manner. A “model company” is a compa2. Systematically manage signiFIcant ny working with products useful to society, which adverse environmental impacts treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories and shareholders better than most other i.e. adopt a policy commitment to establish and companies. maintain environmental due diligence, where the companies regularly identify, prevent or mitigate It is the overall CSR policy of the VKR Group that their potential adverse impacts, and inform the all VKR Group companies, with the model company appropriate authorities of such signiﬁcant impacts objective and the UN Global Compact principles as should they occur according to the OECD, and framework, live up to this CSR commitment, that all VKR Group companies, their employees, and their business relationships, at all times, comply with 3. Systematically manage risks the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human for corruption, money laundering Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enand anti-trust practices terprises in relation to the subject matters covered by UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles – and that i.e. adopt a policy commitment to establish and they contribute to sustainable development in line maintain economic due diligence, where the comwith their corporate strategy. panies regularly identify, prevent or mitigate their potential adverse impacts in relation to corruption, At all times, the VKR Group will comply with existing money laundering and anti-trust, and inform the laws and regulations for the jurisdictions in which appropriate authorities of such impacts should they we operate, and we expect all our business connecoccur according to the OECD. tions to do the same. Speciﬁcally, each Business Area in the VKR Group and any business connection of the VKR Group shall: 34 The Group CSR Policy and its relation These elements are part of a continual, ongoing to other policies process. The result of the due diligence process This policy shall be embedded in all other policies can be used to guide the VKR Group’s strategy and (including Group policies) and procedures where execution efforts with continuous improvement relevant, and reference is made to these. of our general CSR activities within the framework of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. Our expectations to our employees: We expect all our employees to assist us in meeting Other UN goals within this framework, e.g. the our core responsibilities and appreciate involvement Sustainable Development Goals (2015-2030) and in activities related to implementation of this policy. the Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability LeaderFurthermore, we expect our employees to react or ship, can inspire concrete strategic objectives and inform their managers, or any other appropriate actions. functions, if they identify any potential adverse impacts in relation to the principles included in the Involvement of VKR Holding UN Global Compact framework. Procedures and VKR Holding appoints an employee to be contacted programs, e.g. whistle-blower programs, have been by the above ofﬁcers and the management of set up in this context. the individual VKR Group companies for advice in relation to the requirements of this policy. Whenever Who is responsible? The Role of the necessary, VKR Holding may issue guidelines and Management of the VKR Group Companies instructions to support the implementation of this Compliance in relation to this policy is the responpolicy and to ensure that the minimum standard for sibility of the management of each company of the responsible business conduct is met. VKR Group. Within the overall framework, each business area is responsible for identifying its own Renewal and Communication of the Group speciﬁc CSR strategic objectives according to which CSR Policy the individual company shall contribute to sustainaThis policy shall be reviewed whenever relevant, and ble development, adapted to the company’s organiat least every three (3) years. It shall be made public zation, geographical presence and market position. and communicated to employees, business connections, and other relevant stakeholders of In VKR Holding and in each Business Area, one or the VKR Group. more ofﬁcers are responsible for implementation and for monitoring the compliance in relation to this policy. The ofﬁcers shall implement due diligence processes in relation to compliance with this policy, cf. 1-3 above. 35 Appendix 2: List of VKR Group Policies VKR Holding has implemented the 15 policies and one sub-policy below. They apply to all companies in the VKR Group and some extend to business connections as well. The policies concern areas that are important or critical to the VKR Group. They are approved by the board of directors in VKR Holding A/S and in the parent companies of each business area. – Anti-Corruption Policy – Cash Management Policy – Communications Policy – Competition Law Compliance Policy – Crisis Management Policy – Dividend Policy for the Business Areas – Financial Information Policy – Group CSR Policy – Foreign Currency Exposures Policy – Insurance Policy – IPR Policy – Legal Policy – Risk Management Policy – Tax Policy – Transfer Pricing Policy – Policy on the Prevention of Facilitation of Tax Evasion (sub-policy of the Group Tax Policy) Among other things, our Group Policies support the UN Global Compact initiative and the Ten Principles. Additionally, they support the economic sustainability of the Group enabling our continued commitment in the future. 36 VELFAC vertical windows in container housing ln the waterfront of Copenhagen. VELFAC A/S, 2017 37 VKR Holding A/S Breeltevej 18 2970 Hørsholm Denmark Tel.: +45 39 69 11 44 www.vkr-holding.com 1742-0718 Design: Prolog Reklamebureau A/S
