To Our Stakeholders Tofuture Oy (Tofuture) is a specialist combining knowledge of sustainability and technology to help its customers to improve sustainability data management. Tofuture is a registered limited liability company located in Espoo Finland. The company has been established in 1997 and has operations in Nordic countries. Tofuture CSM (Corporate Sustainability Management) helps the customers to improve sustainability data collecting, analyzing and consolidation according to various regulations and standards and reporting to stakeholders. Tofuture Oy is an Organizational Stakeholder for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Gold Community member) and a GRI Certified Training Partner in Finland. Tofuture CSM solution is a GRI Standards certified solution and it fulfills also the requirements for GHG Protocol, UNGC and various other international sustainability related standards and recommendations. Tofuture develops and improves sustainability through sustainability training and software services to its customers. Tofuture CSM solution is used by companies acting in more than 80 countries and in different business fields such as services, logistics and retail and in various industries like energy, metal and engineering, chemical and forest industries. The focus on sustainability management covers monitoring and managing the impacts caused directly or in the value chain of our customers. The CSM solution is offered as a service (SaaS) and hosted by an outside professional service provider. Tofuture is focusing in the software development of CSM and sustainability consulting. In addition to our own personnel we have a network of consultants, resellers and specialists to serve the customers with consulting, implementing the solution and developing customers’ sustainability reporting. Tofuture is building partner network for CSM sales and support services in neighboring countries and in Central Europe. We require the same level of sustainability performance from our partners as for our own operations. Tofuture CSM is a market leader in Finland having a significant market value of Helsinki stock exchange list of companies as its customers. In addition to listed companies we deliver services to several non-listed, NGOs and state owned organizations. Based on our role and market share, we have a great responsibility to maintain and develop our services in a way that our customers can manage and report their sustainability performance according to evolving sustainability management and reporting standards. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 During past few years sustainability is becoming an integral part of the companies’ operations and at the same time also international standards and their implementation are constantly developing. European Union Directive for non-financial and diversity information requires the biggest companies to report extra-financial information starting from financial year 2017. Additionally various local and/or country specific rules and regulations increase the demand for sustainability management and reporting. It can be said that corporate sustainability related topics and their economic implications are better understood and more valued compared to previous years. It seems that companies are starting to see the implication of their own actions on society and environment. In addition, consumers are getting more involved and demand actions from companies’ side to sustainability issues. The six principles of PRI for responsible investment and the ten principles of UNGC including Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption are generally accepted and therefore Tofuture is committed to follow these principles. Tofuture Oy joined the UN Global Compact in 2010 and since then the 10 principles that Global Compact is based upon, has been integrated into our company culture and policy. In addition, the principles are defining the base for our professional services. For a small software company committing to these principles means taking good care of our employees and to protect their rights and well-being. In our own operations we focus especially on energy efficiency in our offices, efficient processes and business travel. The greater impact to the global sustainability is created through our services. Therefore, we focus both on our internal responsibility, and on external impact that we are able to generate with our CSM SaaS software services supporting the ten principles. In Espoo, Finland 17th of July 2018 Outi Aaltonen CEO, Tofuture Oy Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Human rights Principle 1: We support and respect the Human rights and occupational health and safety The well-being of the employees is a key element protection of internationally proclaimed human policies are incorporated into Tofuture’s daily to our company. Tofuture offers better terms in rights; and practices. We provide comprehensive medical occupational healthcare, insurance and training benefits for our employees, promote well-being than the local legislation or the association with an exercise benefit, approve different types agreements require. Principle 2: make sure that we are not complicit of employment leaves and pay wages timely and accurately. Additionally we provide training for Our goal is to keep the amount of sickness leaves in human right abuses. at the same level as in previous years, which has our employees if needed. been very low in the past. Last year the amount We also consult and train our clients to develop of sick leaves has been 7 full days. Employees are measurements and to manage their human right entitled to receive full payment during their topics and additionally to report on those to absence according to the Finnish law. stakeholders. Our software assist our clients to manage and measure their practices related to We develop our training, consulting and the human rights. software to meet the emerging and evolving needs of clients to better understand, measure We strictly resist any kind of human rights and manage the impacts of their operations in the abuses. fields of human rights. Furthermore, through our services, our clients will have a better management and control to their supply chain to resist human right abuses. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Labour Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of We operate in the Nordic countries and obey the We obey the local legislation in all our association and the effective recognition of the local legislation related to labour standards. We operations, and resist any kind of right to collective bargaining; respect our employees' freedom of association discrimination or labour abuses. We do not use and labour agreements, and strictly resist any any form of forced, compulsory or child labour, abuse of labour. Labour is freely given and and do not accept any kind of discrimination in Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of employees are free to leave. our operations. forced and compulsory labour; We provide equal opportunities and job prospects We grant the freedom of association for our for every individual who joins our company. We personnel and respect the freedom of highly appreciate diversity among our employees expression and opinion among our employees. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child such as differences in gender, age, religion and labour; and nationality. We request the same standard and quality regarding personnel policies and practices We also consult and train our clients to develop from our partners related to sustainability measurements and to manage their practices consulting, certified GRI training, CSM SaaS Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in related to labour standards. Our software is used implementation and customer support. employment and occupation. by companies that operate in influential businesses, including raw-material sourcing We develop our training, consulting and the globally, food, energy and wood harvesting. The CSM software to meet the evolving needs of software enables the customer companies to clients to better understand, measure and measure and manage impacts of their operations manage the impacts of their operations in the and also follow-up the performance of the supplyfields of labour standards. We increasingly chain. focus on the aspects related to supply chain management in a responsible manner. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Environment Principle 7: We support precautionary Tofuture encourages its employees to respect the We continue to work to mitigate our negative approach to environmental challenges; environment, and to use natural resources in a impact on the environment through efficient responsible and efficient manner. use of energy and materials in our operations. We have decreased usage of paper during year We consider environmental implications for all 2017 and will continue that journey in the Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote our decisions and strategic choices and we environmental responsibility; and future. For example, we do not use any printed evaluate our performance by following selected marketing material and we send agreements key performance indicators. and offers in electronical form when possible. Principle 9: encourage the development and Tofuture’s main product CSM is a SaaS system and Our office is located in a modern office building diffusion of environmentally friendly therefore we do not use production material. Most with up to date energy saving and with technologies. of the marketing material is also in electronical excellent commuting opportunities. form. We share our work place with another However, even more important than our own companies and we rent just the amount of activities regarding environmental responsibility space which is necessary for our team. We are, our training and software services that cooperate with these other companies in order encourage and assist our clients to take greater to make our work place more sustainable. responsibility for the environment. The main idea behind CSM system is based on discovering and in the end decreasing negative sustainability, including environmental, issues. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 We train our clients to measure, manage and Most of the work-related travelling is done with develop their sustainability performance. public transport. The amount of CO2 emission Together with our clients, we have a great indirect in 2017 consumed by our key employees impact on the environment through reducing the regarding commuting have been approximately negative impacts and increasing environmentally 870 kg. positive solutions. We have also increased the use of e-meetings which has decreased the amount of travelling. In 2017 we made 4 business trips by air travel and 3 by car. Other business trips were travelled by public transportation. We strive to reduce waste generation. All waste is sorted and collected separately for proper processing. Plastic and glass bottles are recycled. Tofuture continues to support companies to develop their sustainability performance by renewing the GRI certified training partner license and continues to provide training for coming year 2018 a swell. We develop our training services and the software to meet the needs of our clients to better understand, measure and manage the impacts of their operations on the environment. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 Tofuture CSM supports UNGC, GHG Protocol, PRI for responsible investment, CDP and other investor related ESG standards and recommendations. We make it easier for the customers to do their part in developing sustainable environmental policies and practices and in measuring their performance development. CSM has been developed also to help to manage and monitor environmental impacts occurring in the supply chain both upstream and downstream. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Anti-corruption Principle 10: We work against corruption in all Tofuture does not accept any kind of corruption in We resist any kind of corruption in our own its forms, including extortion and bribery. its own or its partners’ operations. operations and also including our partners’ activities. In addition we encourage and support our customers to avoid corruption in their businesses. There have not been any reported or even suspected cases regarding corruption in the company’s history but still we are making selfreflection regarding this matter. Tofuture CSM SaaS solution is supporting the EU directive for non-financial and diversity information, the UN and OECD guidelines for internationally operating companies. With CSM solution our customers are able to measure and prevent corruption internally as well as among their supply chain. Tofuture Oy, COP 17 July 2018
