UN Global Compact Communication on Progress March 30, 2018 From our Chairman In July 2016, White & Case became a signatory to the UN  Our Global Citizenship activities, which include our pro Global Compact, affirming our commitment to doing bono work, are closely aligned with the UN’s business responsibly by aligning with its ten principles on Sustainable Development Goals. Our Global Pro Bono human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Practice is now one of the largest in the world, delivering more than 100,000 pro bono hours in 2017 to This is our first Communication on Progress. It outlines the provide access to justice, promote the rule of law and steps we took in 2017 to continue to embed these principles serve organizations with social and environmental in our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. missions. Highlights include:  We are pleased to be a founding member of the UN Development Programme’s Global Alliance for  We formed a Responsible Business Working Group Reporting Progress on Peaceful, Just and Inclusive chaired by our co-General Counsels to ensure that our Societies. operations align with the UN Guiding Principles, the Global Compact and the UK Modern Slavery Act in We believe that it is our responsibility to help address the protecting human rights and the environment. challenges and opportunities facing the world today, and we are committed to continuing to do so through service to our  We launched a Business & Human Rights Interest clients, our Global Citizenship activities and our responsible Group that supports lawyers in all practice groups in business practices. serving our clients on these important issues. Hugh Verrier Chairman UN Global Compact White & Case 1 Human Rights Principles 1. White & Case supports and respects the protection of Our Global Privacy of Personal Data Policy and local privacy internationally proclaimed human rights. policies in each office spell out our commitment to and processes for protecting the privacy of personal data 2. White & Case makes sure that it is not complicit in pertaining to our partners, retired partners, counsel, human rights abuses. associates, affiliated lawyers, staff, contractors and their family members and any designated beneficiary under a In 2017, we formed a Responsible Business Working Group Firm benefit plan as well as applicants to the Firm. Our chaired by our co-General Counsels and including the heads Client Privacy Policy, posted on our website, sets forth our of Procurement and Global Citizenship as well as commitment to protecting the privacy rights of our clients and representatives from our Global People team and Facilities their personnel. Management. The Working Group meets monthly and supports the Firm’s Executive Committee and Global Risk In 2016, we introduced business and human rights training Management Committee on policy review and for all our lawyers in partnership with Business for Social implementation of our commitment to human rights and Responsibility, a nonprofit consultancy that works with 250 environmental sustainability. The Working Group is member companies around the world. The region-specific responsible for identifying, reporting and addressing any training sessions provide an overview of the foundations of human rights risks or abuses in our operations or our key business and human rights as well as current business suppliers. practices of leading companies, and cover relevant legislation and case law in depth. Updated live sessions of Its principal accomplishments to date are: this training are now run annually, and taped sessions are  the release of our first Statement on Slavery and provided to all newly hired lawyers and managers in relevant Human Trafficking; positions and are available on our intranet. The training supports our internal commitment to protect human rights as  adoption of a Supplier Code of Conduct; well as our client service.  formal integration of values into our vendor selection In the first quarter of 2018, we launched a Global Business process; and and Human Rights Interest Group. Led by partner Clare  the incorporation of contractual commitments relating to Connellan in London, the Interest Group will support our human rights into our vendor agreements. lawyers in providing assistance to our commercial clients on the legal and reputational risks and opportunities they face in These new policies and procedures are in place for all new addressing human rights issues in their operations and key suppliers. We are now working to establish a process of supply chains. In 2017, we incorporated analysis of human annual disclosure from our legacy key and significant rights risks into our due diligence processes for debt capital suppliers as well as identify thresholds where further markets as well as mergers and acquisitions, where assessment or other actions may be required. relevant. UN Global Compact White & Case 2 Highlights of our Global Citizenship activities in 2017 Our global pro bono practice remains the centerpiece of our included hosting two high-profile events to promote private Global Citizenship activities. In 2017, 60% of our pro bono sector action to eradicate human trafficking and modern matters helped strengthen human rights around the world. slavery, and support peaceful and inclusive societies. These matters included:  In September 2017, we hosted an official side event of  A team of 12 lawyers from across our Asia offices the 72nd session of the UN General Assembly—the undertook country-by-country studies of existing legal first UN side event hosted by the private sector. The frameworks and provided recommendations for event centered on the role of businesses, in partnership successfully implementing and monitoring the ASEAN with the UN and civil society, in advancing UN Convention Against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Sustainable Development Goal 16, which is dedicated Women and Children (ACTIP). to the promotion of peaceful and inclusive societies for  A team of 141 lawyers and legal staff in 25 offices sustainable development, the provision of access to updated case law in Cornell Law School’s Women and justice for all, and building effective accountable Justice Collection, a free online database that includes institutions. Leaders from major corporations spoke international legal instruments and case law relating to about their businesses’ contributions to peace, justice gender-based violence and women’s access to justice. and inclusion. White & Case Chairman Hugh Verrier The database facilitates the use of comparative law to and Jacquelyn MacLennan, partner and Global Pro improve access to justice for victims of gender-based Bono Practice Leader, shared highlights of our work in violence. these areas, including our collaboration with the Kingdom of Bhutan to open the Jigme Singye  To support the nonprofit Unchained At Last in its Wangchuck School of Law, the Kingdom’s first law campaign to eradicate child marriage in the US, a team school, and our efforts to help create Ghana’s first legal of 37 lawyers and legal staff in six offices are working ethics training program for law students. on the first analysis of the laws in each of the 50 states that impact and enable child marriage. A bill was  In January 2017, we co-hosted a breakfast with the passed in New York and bills are pending or being filed Thomson Reuters Foundation at the World Economic in several states. Forum in Davos, Switzerland on the role of the private sector in eradicating slavery and human trafficking.  Lawyers from our New York office obtained civil This was the second year in a row that we co-hosted damages for two Ukrainian women against the this event, with remarks by Chairman Hugh Verrier in traffickers who brought them to the United States and 2016 and Global Pro Bono Practice leader Jacquelyn against the nightclub where they were forced to work. MacLennan in 2017 on the growing legal and  As just one example of our work with those seeking reputational risks facing companies, and featuring a asylum, lawyers in our Tokyo office assisted Japan panel of senior executives from leading companies Association for Refugees in successfully representing a which have been recognized with the Thomson Reuters refugee from Democratic Republic of Congo in Foundation’s Stop Slavery Award. petitioning for asylum in Japan. UN Global Compact White & Case 3 Labor Principles 3. White & Case upholds the freedom of association and 6. White & Case upholds the elimination of discrimination the effective recognition of the right to collective in respect of employment and occupation. bargaining. Our Global Policy on Equal Opportunity and Professional We are committed to a fair and balanced approach to Work Environment sets out our objective of providing a relations with employee representatives. Each office has a professional, collegial working environment in which all Workplace Committee with representation from a crossindividuals, whatever their background or status within the section of our people. We support a wide range of vibrant Firm, are treated with respect and dignity. White & Case employee affinity groups. Please see below for more does not permit harassment or intimidation of any sort and information on our affinity groups and our policies related to will make every effort to provide a working environment free professional work environment, whistleblowing and from such behavior. In addition to our global policy, there is discrimination, which prohibits discrimination based on trade a sexual harassment and discrimination policy in each of our union membership. 40 offices around the world, as well as a local grievance procedure. 4. White & Case upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our commitment to providing equal opportunities to all applies during each phase of an individual’s career with 5. White & Case upholds the effective abolition of child White & Case including, but not limited to, recruitment, labor. employment, job assignment, training, promotion, salary and other forms of compensation and termination, in all of the In 2017, we published our Statement on Slavery and Human Firm’s offices. We have in place systems to ensure full Trafficking, which affirms our commitment to employees’ compliance with relevant labor laws relating to employee rights and highlights our adherence to public accountability terms and conditions, including pay, and we support the and transparency. We take a zero tolerance approach to health and financial needs of our employees at different modern slavery and forced labor in all forms within our stages of their lives by providing a flexible benefits program. organization and supply chain. It is the role of the Each year we review all of our policies globally to be sure we Responsible Business Working Group to identify and are compliant with all local labor laws, including minimum address any risks or instances of forced labor or child labor wage, hour laws, sick time, and leaves. in our operations and supply chain. We have instituted an upward review process for all lawyers We expect our suppliers to share our values and have and Business Service Leaders, the findings of which are implemented a supply chain compliance program to impose analyzed for patterns and issues in aggregate. Issues are contractual obligations on all key suppliers, including addressed for individuals or groups via training and obligations related to compliance with relevant laws counselling. (including those related to modern slavery) and requirements to impose similar standards on their suppliers. Our pro bono practice also actively seeks matters that support the elimination of forced labor and child labor. In 2017, a matter of particular note was a global research study on minimum age laws affecting children and the online sexual exploitation of children for Child Rights International Network undertaken by a team of 73 lawyers in 16 offices: Astana, Hong Kong, Jakarta, London, Los Angeles, Madrid, Miami, Milan, New York, Paris, Riyadh, Sao Paulo, Seoul, Singapore, Warsaw, and Washington, DC. UN Global Compact White & Case 4 We continue to stand by our mission to build upon the The Firm has nine affinity groups that are open to all lawyers strength of the diversity of our lawyers and staff in order to and administrative personnel: Asian, Black, Hispanic, create an environment where all who work here are Middle Eastern, and Spectrum LGBT Affinity Groups in the encouraged, assisted and inspired to reach their potential, US; Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) LINK and regardless of race, color, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual Spectrum LGBT Affinity Groups in London; and Colorful (for orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, minority/migration backgrounds) and Spectrum LGBT Affinity age, marital status or disability. Groups in Germany. All of these groups are open to all lawyers and business services staff throughout the Firm. Having set a goal to be a leader in the effort to maintain and These groups serve as key resources for professional increase diversity in the legal profession globally as well as development, recruitment and retention of diverse attorneys in our own Firm, we are pleased to share that our efforts and staff. The groups support pro bono and community continue to be recognized by various monitoring bodies. In development initiatives, and host networking receptions, 2017, for the fourth consecutive year, we were ranked the #1 cultural awareness programs and speaking events to most diverse firm for lawyers of color in the United States on encourage public discussions with distinguished guests on a The American Lawyer’s Diversity Scorecard. For the second variety of topics. consecutive year, we ranked #1 on Law360’s Diversity Snapshot. The Firm was one of only two Tier 1 ranked firms In addition to the establishment of formal initiatives that form on the Minority Corporate Counsel Association’s 2016 Do the basis of the diversity strategy, we have an ongoing Good, Do Well List, acknowledging the Firm’s high levels of unconscious bias training program delivered to all offices both diversity and profitability. We also received the 2016 globally with mandatory participation. We have also Law Firm Diversity Award from the National Asian Pacific conducted diversity training in the United States and London, American Bar Association, the 2016 Hope Award for Respectful Work Environment training in London, leadership Diversity from the Asian Pacific American Bar Association of training sessions for partners, training for all lawyers globally Silicon Valley, and the 2017 Law Firm Diversity Award from on preventing sexual harassment and discrimination, and the Asian American Bar Association of New York. In 2016, upward reviews of partners and associates. An update to White & Case was also named Best International Firm for the sexual harassment and discrimination training is in the Talent Management by Euromoney Legal Media Group’s final planning stages and will be delivered globally this year. Women in Business Law Awards in the Americas (fifth We also ensure diversity principles are embedded in consecutive year), Asia (third consecutive year) and Europe professional development programs delivered globally. (second consecutive year). In the UK, we were named the th 8th most diverse international firm and 17 for all UK firms in In 2017, our pro bono work included advice to many overall race, gender and LGBT diversity by the Diversity nonprofit organizations on their employment practices and League Table in 2015. anti-discrimination law, some of which have a mission to combat discrimination. For example, we advised We have institutionalized our diversity efforts with a full-time Transgender Europe, a network of organizations that seeks global Director of Diversity and Inclusion, an Associate to combat discrimination in Europe, on German labor law as Director of Diversity and Inclusion, two Diversity Managers it was hiring new staff. and a Diversity Coordinator, all of whom are charged with oversight and administration of all global diversity initiatives. . . UN Global Compact White & Case 5 Environmental Principles 7. White & Case supports a precautionary approach to We have conducted two greenhouse gas emission environmental challenges. assessments in collaboration with the Carbon Neutral Company in 2010 and 2012; our per person greenhouse gas 8. White & Case undertakes initiatives to promote greater emissions decreased over that period. These assessment environmental responsibility. revealed that 85% of our emissions come from energy use and business travel. Since these assessments, we have 9. White & Case encourages the development and added state-of-the art videoconferencing facilities in every diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. office including telepresence rooms in New York and We share the concern of our clients, partners and London, which, in tandem with our Travel Policy, has employees for the sustainability of the environment and we reduced non-essential travel. work to improve our environmentally sustainable In 2017, our London office retained its ISO 14001 management practices. Through our Green Initiative, we certification status, which it first attained in 2014. It has also share best practices across our network to reduce the been awarded the prestigious ‘Gold’ Clean City Award from carbon footprint of our operations and our employees. The the City of London annually since 2008 in recognition of our initiative is overseen by the Head of Global Citizenship and recycling procedures; no waste is sent to landfill and general the Green Operation Committee, which comprises waste is sent to an energy-from-waste facility. In New York, representatives from each region and our Global our largest office with approximately 900 people, we moved Procurement and Global Technology Services functions. to new premises in March 2017 from space we had occupied Our Environmental Sustainability Policy commits us to since the late 1970s. This move substantially improved the recognize that our responsibility to the environment goes energy efficiency of our New York office space, which now is beyond legal and regulatory requirements. We take a certified as LEED Gold. Many of our offices as well as our precautionary approach to potentially harmful effects of our shared services facility in Manila are in buildings with operations and are committed to reducing our environmental ENERGY STAR or LEED certification or the equivalent. We impact and continually improving our environmental plan to conduct another greenhouse gas emissions performance as far as is reasonably practical. assessment in the coming months now that we have moved into the new space in New York. Our Environmental Policy calls for us to: In addition, our Global Technology Services and  ensure that we comply with all regulatory requirements Procurement functions continue to improve the sustainability applicable to each office worldwide; of their practices. We operate regional computer data centers that feature state-of-the-art technology that  prevent pollution from our activities; conserves energy while improving the efficiency and  implement sustainable waste management practices reliability of our technology. Servers and other equipment across our offices in order to minimize the quantity of are managed regionally to reduce our equipment needs and waste we produce and maximize the amount of waste power consumption as much as possible. Our Americas we recycle; data center uses 100% wind power for electricity generation  identify key resources used by each office and and our data center in Europe provides us with carbonimplement measures to ensure that we use those neutral power from hydropower sources. Our data center in resources in an efficient manner; our Asia-Pacific region also utilizes 100% renewable energy.  effectively manage our carbon emissions by continuing to improve the energy efficiency of our premises and effectively measuring the environmental impacts of our business travels; and  work with our key suppliers and employees to promote and improve environmental performance. UN Global Compact White & Case 6 To build awareness among our people and lower our carbon Our pro bono activities also seek to advance environmental emissions through individual actions, we run an annual sustainability. Recent projects include: Green Campaign. More than 1,500 people across our offices have taken our Green Pledge to commit to change at  We provided pro bono assistance to WaterLex, an least one personal behavior during the year to lower their NGO that serves as an official UN water partner. Fifty carbon footprint at home, in the office or on their commute. lawyers across ten offices researched existing water Our 2017 campaign ran from June 5 through 9 to feature legislation in five countries to help WaterLex complete World Oceans Day on June 8 and build awareness of its “Country Water Governance Mappings,” which are Sustainable Development Goal 14 to conserve and exhaustive reviews of current national legal frameworks sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for that WaterLex uses to pinpoint weaknesses in existing sustainable development. Activities included a daily quiz systems and asses the feasibility of proposed solutions. and a contest for ocean conservation ideas.  Lawyers in Singapore are helping Conservation International (CI) analyze the best way to administer a Our client-facing Environment & Climate Change Practice fund for the Birds’ Head Seascape, known as the handles some of the world’s largest and most sophisticated ‘epicenter of marine biodiversity in the world.’ The fund matters requiring the resolution of complex environmental will ensure that CI can sustainably manage and protect issues. We advise on all aspects of environmental law, the marine ecosystems and species of this seascape. including environmental litigation and enforcement, due diligence and transactional advice, compliance and  A team of ten lawyers and legal staff in three offices regulatory advice, legislation, climate change, renewable researched key issues on the conservation and energy and clean technology, and environmental aspects of sustainable use of the maritime environment in areas infrastructure and project development and finance. beyond any national jurisdiction. Working with Islands First, a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping We were named Best Law Firm by Environmental Finance at small island nations engage at the UN to protect the its 2017 Green Bond Awards, which recognize best practices earth’s climate and oceans, our lawyers analyzed and issues that were significant in the development of the existing legal frameworks and current procedural and green bond market. We also received accolades as part of funding mechanisms addressing environmentally the team responsible for the €750 million green bond that harmful events in these areas. won “Bond of the year: SSA and Award for Innovation: Structure – Poland.” As legal advisor to the issuer, we  Our lawyers in New York represent Conservation Law helped bring the world’s first sovereign green bond to the Foundation in environmental litigation throughout New market. England. We bring suits against facilities that are discharging toxic metals and other hazardous materials Beyond advising on deals, we are also an observer member into New England’s rivers and other waterbodies. As of the industry-led voluntary guidelines—the Green Bond part of our successful suits, we have compelled Principles—and a member of its underwriter legal risk polluters to come into compliance with the Clean Water mitigation working group. We are a select member of the Act, obtain required permits, and fund local Green Finance Initiative Partnership led by the UK Supplemental Environmental Projects. government and the City of London and a chair of the UK  A team of lawyers is helping BioLite, a social enterprise GFI’s Green Islamic Finance Working Group and an advisor dedicated to providing clean energy to poor households to the Bank of England as chair of the G20 Green Finance in the developing world, establish a working capital Study Group. financing package from a social development fund that will enable BioLite to more effectively scale its operations in countries around the world. UN Global Compact White & Case 7 Anti-Corruption Principles 10. White & Case works against corruption in all its forms, We conduct an annual audit of each office on corruption risk, including extortion and bribery. run by a member of our Global Risk Management Committee. Depending on local requirements, some offices We are committed to conducting our activities in accordance are required to have a designated Money Laundering with all applicable anti-bribery laws (including the US Foreign Reporting Officer to ensure that all internal and external Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act). Our Global reporting requirements are met. Anti-Corruption Policy contains guidelines, standards and procedures to ensure that we and those acting on our behalf Client Due Diligence (CDD) must be conducted on every understand and comply with applicable anti-corruption laws new client prior to matter opening. Each new client must be in all interactions with our clients, prospective clients, identified, have its identify verified and, where relevant, its vendors, service providers and others. ultimate beneficial owner(s) identified and verified. CDD must be verified as up-to-date in relation to existing clients Any transaction, no matter how seemingly insignificant, that on receipt of each new instruction. The Firm’s Compliance & might give rise to a violation of this policy and/or any New Business department is responsible for conducting applicable anti-corruption laws must be reported promptly to CDD and recording data to confirm compliance. any administrative director of the Firm, the relevant office executive partner, regional section head or regional chief Our White Collar practice covers every phase of corporate operating officer or the general counsel. Alternatively, compliance and regulatory enforcement for our clients. We anonymous reports may be made by calling our Antiprovide advice and representation related to risk Corruption or Whistleblower Hotline. Retaliation against any assessments, compliance reviews, compliance programs individual who reports misconduct or who participates in an and investigations, as well as the application of global investigation of alleged illegal conduct is strictly prohibited. sanctions, export controls, and national securities regulations. We assist companies in key areas of regulatory Our expenditure reimbursement software is utilized to focus, such as money laundering and anti-corruption, document all entertainment details and ensure compliance including under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the with the corporate entertainment and travel aspects of the UK Bribery Act, and Office of Foreign Assets Control statues policy. and regulations. Anti-corruption training is provided annually in each office, is Our pro bono work in 2017 also supported efforts to combat posted on our intranet and is provided to all new hires. It is corruption, including: tailored by function, with procurement, finance and human resources staff receiving specialized training for their areas.  legal advice to The Organized Crime and Corruption Our General Counsel has led training for commercial clients Reporting Project (OCCRP), an investigative reporting as well. platform formed by 40 nonprofit investigative centers, journalists, and several regional news organizations We also have established a Global Anti-Money Laundering around the world; and Policy to ensure alignment with the relevant provisions of the Financial Action Task Force, an inter-governmental body  assistance to TRACE International on anti-bribery which sets international standards on combating money compliance under Finnish law. laundering and the financing of terrorism and proliferation. The majority of jurisdictions in which the Firm practices have endorsed those standards and have in place stringent local rules and regulations. UN Global Compact White & Case 8 Resources White & Case Website White & Case Modern Slavery Act Statement 2017 https://www.whitecase.com/ https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/statementslavery-and-human-trafficking 2017 White & Case Firm Annual (PDF) https://www.whitecase.com/2017-annual-review Diversity at White & Case http://www.whitecase.com/diversity/ Global Citizenship at White & Case https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/ White & Case Environmental Sustainability Policy https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/green-initiative 2017 White & Case Global Citizenship Review (PDF) https://www.whitecase.com/system/files_force/files/download /sections/2017-global-citizenship-review.pdf UN Global Compact White & Case 9 whitecase.com In this publication, White & Case means the international legal practice comprising White & Case LLP, a New York State registered limited liability partnership, White & Case LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under English law and all other affiliated partnerships, companies and entities. © 2014 White & Case LLP
