0 ,0 267, 00900 Kiambu Authorized East & 2nd Floor Central Africa Partner for KLR INTRODUCTION Am pleased to confirm that Matric Drillers Limited reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We area medium sized borehole drilling company based in Kenya.We specialize on borehole drilling, irrigation, sale of water pumps, mortar accessories, pump installation and rehabilitation among other water works related jobs. In this our first second communication on progress .we describe our actions to integrate the global compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information our stake holders using our primary channel of communications. Yours sincerely Macharia John Managing Director Borehole Drilling, Water Testing, Pumps Installation, Irrigation Systems, Mortar Accessories HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Matric Drillers Limited goal is to influence that all our employees and all our business partners respect the universal declaration of human rights and environmental protection. We have taken below measures to prevent human rights violation in its location as below. a) A suggestion box to be installed for employees to submit their complaints and issues with regards to unfair treatment unhealthy competition. These issues are raised by top management and discussed immediately b) Training session are conducted for all employees to raise awareness of human right issues. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Our organization ensures that all our employees are under the global compact principles of labour and we adhere to them as follows. a)No employment for underage/minors b)Awareness raising and training of employees on labour rights and polices. c)We avoid discrimination in terms of hiring, promotions,salary remunerations in in regards to ethenicity or political affiliation. d)We also consult our major shareholders i.e. Davis and Shirtliff where we buy pumps form the boreholes on how to train our employees and give them the general view of working standards. e)We provide our employees with bonuses at end year parties, overtime payment, weekend benefits. Borehole Drilling, Water Testing, Pumps Installation, Irrigation Systems, Mortar AccessoriES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Being drilling firm based on the nature of our operations, we make our organization understand the direct environmental impact relatively as a serious issue whereby we have to apply for drilling permits from NEMA (National Enviromental Management Authority) and WARMA( Water Resources Management Authority) Though we have ensured to educate our employees on recycling of waste management when we hold our annual CSR forums in conjunctions with WARMA, NEMA, who are major stakeholders and partners. a)We encourage not to print when its not necessary, you can send emails, letter, parcels electronically. b)We always emphasis to switch of lights in the offices when not using switch of computers laptops when not in use to save on energy. c)Minimize energy consumption by opening windows instead of relying on fans for cooling when temperature is hot. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Internally we have maintained a zero tolerance corruption practices between our employees, customers, suppliers , stake holders etc. We have over and over again educated our employees on not practicing corruption practices as below: a)Taking bribes, giving out bribes to get sales, tender or any work related issues. b)We have ensured on employees not to be involved in corrupt practices which will make our organization lose its reputation in the business world . c)Employee who deals with corrupt practices will be held personally responsible for his/her action and rule of law will eventually follow up. Borehole Drilling, Water Testing, Pumps Installation, Irrigation Systems, Mortar Accessories MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES When our organization practices all the practices, we shall have a reputable name to get good business, make our products loyal, have trustworthy employees, happy customers who uphold all values of doing genuine business. In additions to measures taken, we shall continue to uphold all these values and principles through regular training workshops, CRS, We shall ensure all our employees get medical covers for each of them and their families for accidental insurance and medical covers. We have several activities to be held in the New Year and will subsequently share with you like: a) Encourage our employees to join trade unions which are good for the social well being and voice their concerns, issues to be discussed and resolved. b) Encourage our staff we have a CSR on a quarterly basis instead of yearly. c)To maintain and conserve our trees, rivers and lakes since with the current climate change, our natural sources of water are now drying up and this will have serious negative effects to the society as water is life. Borehole Drilling, Water Testing, Pumps Installation, Irrigation Systems, Mortar Accessories
