IIIFOOD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS United Nations Global Compact www.iiifood.cn Statement of continued support by our CEO April, 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm and reaffirm IIIFOOD support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Integrity and good business ethics is what IIIFOOD was and is committed to since its first days of operation. And as we grow further, our commitment towards such positive values remains stronger than ever, as we strive to maintain good conduct at all times, and in all markets and which we operate. We believe in doing the right thing. We believe that it is a responsibility we hold towards ourselves and towards others, and thus we aim to ensure that this is reflected in everything we do, among ourselves, with our partners, suppliers, clients, competition, and our community. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Wu Ying CEO … 2 of 5 Human Rights Principles IIIFOOD supports the UNGC on Human Rights. Our company is highly committed to providing an equal opportunity work environment. IIIFOOD encourages openness and honesty, and aims to provide an environment that is supportive, and where everyone is treated fairly, and with courtesy and respect. IIIFOOD believes in its responsibility towards the various communities, and continues to demonstrate its strong commitment towards helping in building sustainable development. The company provides a safe and healthy environment, and is committed to the privacy of its staff. Reporting of any violations of human rights is done through communicating such violations to the employee’s management and/or to HR, where proper investigation is conducted accordingly. IIIFOOD does not allow for any retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct in good faith. A grievance policy is in place for employees to use for reporting cases. A suggestions box is also available for all staff to use as needed with the option for anonymity. A steering committee, of which HR is part of, is responsible for follow up and monitoring of the various cases and developing procedures as needed to ensure compliance. Measurement of Outcomes Regarding the company’s grievances, Our HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all related issues and grievances. During last year, one grievance was filed. Actions was taken accordingly, and the issue was resolved. We will continue to monitor all incompliances and develop procedures as needed. Labor Principles IIIFOOD supports the UNGC principles on Labor. IIIFOOD is an equal opportunity employer. All employment decisions at IIIFOOD are made based solely on job requirements and qualifications of applicants. IIIFOOD does not permit any discrimination or harassment of any sort based on age, race, color, gender, religion, beliefs, origin, disability, sexual orientation, or any other basis as protected and applicable by law. IIIFOOD believes … 3 of 5 in the significance of women’s participation in the workforce and as such is highly committed to gender equity. Reporting of any violations, discrimination or inappropriate conduct is done to the employee’s management and/or to HR, and proper investigation is conducted accordingly. IIIFOOD does not allow for any retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct in good faith. ITG employees must cooperate in internal investigations of potential or alleged misconduct. A grievance policy is in place for employees to use for reporting cases. A suggestions box is also available for all staff to use as needed. Measurement of Outcomes The company’s HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all employment and grievances issues. During last year, one grievance was filed. Actions were taken accordingly, and the issue was resolved. We will continue to monitor all incompliances and develop procedures as needed. Environmental Principles IIIFOOD supports the UNGC principles on Environment. The company has clear policies, messaging and positions supporting environmental principles. The company encourages all its employees to be responsible individuals, and act accordingly internally and externally, towards the community and the environment. IIIFOOD is committed to promoting and encouraging environmentally responsible actions. This goes beyond government laws and regulations. Our employees are encouraged to help protect the environment and act to the best of their ability to demonstrate such a responsibility through conservation of energy and water, recycling, minimizing waste, maintaining a clean environment, equipment re-use or refurbishment programs, etc. Recycling activities are on the increase. IIIFOOD will work on further developing environmental programs within the company, encourage staff to implement, and build related procedures to ensure implementation as applicable, especially related to recycling and energy conservation. Measurement of Outcomes … 4 of 5 Recycling activities are on the increase. IIIFOOD will work on further developing environmental programs within the company, encourage staff to implement, and build related procedures to ensure implementation as applicable, especially related to recycling and energy conservation. Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals IIIFOOD supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption, and has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption. IIIFOOD’s staff is requested to abide at all times by applicable laws and regulations. The company has clear policies on anti-corruption that are presented and communicated to its staff. Our plan is to continuously maintain our clean record. Measurement of Outcomes IIIFOOD has not been involved in any corruption related cases. Our financial audits are carried out by an external international auditing firm ,ensuring that no corruption related activities are accepted. … 5 of 5
