UN Global Compact Communication on Progress report 17 May 2018 Contents Message of support 3 Environment 49 Human rights 5 Area Environment 50 AREA Human Rights 6 Area Environment 55 AREA Human Rights 13 Area Environment 59 Human rights our work 20 Environment our work 63 Making Global Impact 26 Q&A: A culture of sustainable 65 Labour 27 innovation with David Ireland AREA Labour 28 Anti-Corruption 69 AREA Labour 32 AREA Anti-Corruption 70 AREA Labour 36 AREA Labour 40 Labour our work 43 Q&A: What is a chief ethicist? 44 Message of Support On behalf of ThinkPlace, a company of which I am Founding Partner, The UN Global Compact has given a shape and structure to the kind I’m delighted to be submitting this, our first Communication on of behaviours and practices we already strove for as a company: Progress report. nothing could be more important to us as an organisation than the four principles of environmental responsibility, labour practices, antiThe report covers our initial 12 months as a signatory to the UN corruption and human rights. Global Compact. And what an eventful year it has been. We are not only proud to uphold these values, we are bound to do so ThinkPlace is a global design consultancy that operates in a hugely by our own sense of ethics and decency. diverse range of different environments and cultures. We strive to innovate through design thinking and to use our creativity to work ThinkPlace is a company that adopts the UN’s 17 Sustainable with clients and others to design a better world. Development Goals as our own. They are our North star. Our GPS. Our road map. As a consultancy, our impact is expressed most That has long been our goal and it has carried us well. We have grown often through the clients we choose to work alongside. We carefully from a single employee 12 years ago to more than 100 in 2018. We measure how each and every project we take on supports and run eight studios spread across five countries. reinforces the SDGs. We have placed them prominently on the walls of our studios, so that staff and clients alike see them many times Our work in the past year took us to more than 30 nations across the each day. globe, working with partners including governments, corporations and agencies such as the Red Cross, Bill and Melinda Gates And when we are acting in alignment with those goals we know we Foundation and USAID. are making the impact we strive for. Our company is growing rapidly. But as it does we have increasingly ThinkPlace has long placed a premium on being an ethical operator come to realise the importance of not just doing the right thing in a complex world. Each day, across the globe, we send people into because we are convinced it is right but also being part of a broader places with vastly-differing attitudes, cultures and standards. framework. We need to know that when we do so we are acting in consideration for local people and their interests but are doing it within a framework that supports universal ethical principles that we hold non-negotiable. At ThinkPlace each project we take on must undergo an ethics screen, a process overseen by our Chief Ethicist (who is also a partner in our business). This has been a particular focus during the past 12 months. We have a range of policies in place that underline our commitment to the Global Compact and we have taken care to ensure that these are communicated powerfully and frequently to our staff. With a focus on corruption, governance and ethical practices taking up much of our efforts in the first year we are preparing to expand the influence of the compact in year two. While we have long been committed to sustainability and to operating our business with as light a footprint as possible we acknowledge that we can still make improvements in these areas. We have been pleased to identify some ways in which that can be achieved. During the coming 12 months we set ourselves the goal of achieving this further engagement with the compact and its principles. Sincerely, John Body (Founding partner) Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights What we believe ThinkPlace is committed to ensuring everything Whether it’s a strategy, policy, programme, service we do is aligned to the United Nations Universal or a digital product, our designs: Declaration of Human Rights. Because of the nature of our work, we have a particular •• Improve things for the individuals, communities commitment to the Convention on the Rights of and societies who will experience them the Child, the Convention on the Rights of Persons •• Do not create situations of harm for individuals, with Disabilities and the Declaration on the Rights communities and societies of Indigenous Peoples. •• Strive to move the needle on the UN’s At ThinkPlace, we design for a better world. Our focus Sustainable Development Goals, in both is on creating solutions to society’s most complex developed and developing countries challenges. We do this based on the principles of co-design and the belief that those closest to the problem have expertise, insights and experience that are critical in getting to the right solution. Co-design Empathy Impact At ThinkPlace we always strive for a culture that strongly values positive, ethical impact. •• We believe can make a positive difference in the world •• We make sense of the world using empathy to guide us. •• We put in place the policies, training and principles our people need to live our shared ethics How we show it •• During the past year we have introduced an •• To ensure its alignment with the Convention Engagement Risk Matrix, published on our on the Rights of the Child, (and Australian law) internal communications channel, which asks ThinkPlace has developed a policy document: staff about to conduct fieldwork to consider ThinkPlace’s Protecting Children Policy. the vulnerability of the people with whom they engage, the sensitivity of the topics of •• To ensure its compliance with the Convention engagement and whether the engagement on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, might impinge negatively on the rights of the ThinkPlace has sought out best practice globally subject. This enables higher risk engagements to guide the work of its team members. We use to be considered by the ThinkPlace Executive Ethical Guidance for Research with People with before a decision is made whether to proceed. Disabilities, published by the National Disability Authority of Ireland. •• We provide our team members training to ensure that human rights are protected and upheld during our interactions with people through our course Ethics in the Human Research Process. ThinkPlace demonstrates its commitment to the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples through this statement on its website: At ThinkPlace, we respect the special rights of Indigenous peoples around the world and believe that they have a unique, powerful perspective that should be harnessed in the design of societal systems both in an Indigenous context, and for society as a whole. We respectfully seek opportunities to collaborate with Indigenous communities and where this is possible, work to ensure that they have presence and influence at the design table. (http://www.thinkplace.com.au/company/ethics) Human Rights Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in any human rights abuses What we believe At ThinkPlace we work for the betterment of society. Few things could be more important to our We have chosen to formalise this longstanding company than ensuring we are not complicit in guiding principle by adopting the dual frameworks of any human rights abuses. We take care to ensure the United Nations Global Compact and the Goals that our commitment to human rights is not an for Sustainable Development. Within this framework abstraction, it is a change we seek to make in of rules and principles we recognise that the UN the world. We are meticulous about monitoring Charter of Human Rights is a foundational document our own impact in these areas but also careful to It is core to the mission of the United Nations and it ensure the partners and clients we engage with is core to the ThinkPlace mission. have similarly high standards. The Charter is not simply a document to us it is Through our work we strive to build up civic a set of principles we live every day. We work for institutions in the developing world and to create change at a systems level in countries all over the stronger circumstances in which human rights can world. This means we have vast capacity to make flourish. Our work is, by nature, collaborative. This an impact on the lives of those who are vulnerable means we have an extra responsibility to ensure or exploited. We strive to make this impact a we do not unwittingly abet human rights violations positive one. by our partners. How we show it •• The ThinkPlace Code of Conduct details what •• Each project that ThinkPlace takes on must is expected from each ThinkPlace employee first undergo a formal ethics screening process, or contractor. It is compulsory reading for all overseen by our Chief Ethicist. This is a detailed staff and an expectation that it be upheld is audit that examines whether a project is likely stipulated in all employment contracts. The to cause harm but also examines whether code is prominently published on our internal any of the partners involved in the work are communications channel. engaged in behaviour that contravenes our commitment to protecting human rights and •• Induction manuals for new staff also make other ethical mainstays. clear that all projects must avoid negative impact in a range of areas, including human •• An Ethics statement is prominently displayed rights. on our global website and makes clear the principles we expect to uphold. •• All staff undergo twice-yearly ethics training. This is scenario-based and aims to present https://www.thinkplaceglobal.com/company/ethics staff with the kind of dilemmas or challenges they may face in the field. Some of these scenarios relate to identifying, avoiding and reporting situations where human rights are being violated. Our work Many of ThinkPlace’s projects support the creation 175 parents, educators and community leaders of environments in which human rights can flourish. came together to understand the research insights In Del Norte County, Northern California, 66 per and design a new literacy experience for Del Norte cent of children start school unprepared and many families. These insights have galvanised the local families struggle to build their children’s literacy. The community – both at a systems and individual School Systems Implementation Team, educators organisation level. The community has signed up and community leaders wanted to change this. to an audacious goal: that all third graders will be reading at third grade level by 2023. ThinkPlace set up a design team of educators and community agencies to engage with families and ThinkPlace’s co-design approach with families and teachers to better understand what was impacting educators has been critical to the success of the on a child’s capacity to learn. The empathy research project. The design team went back to some of the focused on the cultural inclusion of Native American, families who were involved in the research to get Hmong and Hispanic people. their ideas on what a new future would look like for them. The impact of continuing to engage and We learned that there were families under pressure co-design with families who were interviewed has in a world that feels unsafe and chaotic; families been powerful. where day-to-day living was the focus; through to families with huge aspirations for their children, where learning was a priority. Our human-centered design approach has provided a method to turn ideas into meaningful change resulting in real systems changes and improvements in the lives of families in an under-resourced community. Q&A with John Body, Founding Partner ThinkPlace has made the decision to sign up to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals and to place those goals at the core of our work. We asked ThinkPlace founder John Body why. “ We discovered that those projects that had personal Q&A meaning and combined impact were much more JB: The Sustainable Development Goals are 17 goals that apply equally to the developing and satisfying than those without. “ the developed world. The goals cover the world’s biggest challenges including social, economic This was particularly evident when working with and environmental needs. Associated with each organisations to increase consumption of products goal are strategies and indicators for success. The or services that people did not need, or worse still, goals are ambitious and broad. In my work across that were bad for them. many countries I am hearing frequent reference We wanted not just to be a strategic design to the goals and am constantly seeing projects consultancy, but one that focuses our efforts on directed towards them. public, shared or collective value. Public value is generally associated with the public sector. Shared Q: Why have we done this? value is generally associated with private sector initiatives that are commercially successful and JB: The ThinkPlace strategic direction has also good for the wider community. Collective evolved since the company was launched in value is generally associated with value created by 2005. As we worked on more and more projects we the community for the community. These terms began to reflect on why some were rewarding and served us well but we found they were not fully some were not. We could not get excited about a effective in sharing across the team the types project where we did not agree with the outcomes. of projects we would work on and the types of projects we would not work on. Q: As a company, what does it mean in practical Q: ThinkPlace is a business and like any business terms to sign up to these goals? it has a commercial imperative. What role do you see for companies and businesses in terms of JB: The Goals have given much greater clarity making the world a better place? about what is public, shared or collective value. Signing up for the goals influences the types of JB: The more I work with major global and regional projects we work on. It also influences the way we companies I am encouraged to see an increasing run our company. ‘for purpose’ agenda. This is deep in the DNA of some companies and more shallow in others. But Q: Has adopting these goals meant that any companies are made up of individuals and changes needed to be made in how we work or individuals are neither fully good nor fully bad. the work we take on? From the outside there can be a simplistic view that JB: Prior to signing up for the goals we big business is bad. Bad for society, bad for the experienced some tension about whether economy and bad for the environment. Obviously all our projects were contributing to a ‘public there is truth in some of this, sometimes. But taking value’ outcome. We’ve found that since signing up this view can also be counter productive. There are for the goals this ambiguity has disappeared. Not good people inside every company. Working with only that, we have observed that our whole portfolio them to nudge a company away from unethical of work has shifted towards higher impact work practice towards ethical practice can be beneficial. because the whole team now acts to seek out such projects and screens out misaligned projects. Obviously companies have to be profitable or they cease to exist. But increasingly, to achieve this profit companies are finding they must have social licence from the community to operate. We see when “ All companies can do companies damage their social licence it can have something. Elimination of direct impact on their share price and revenues. food waste, reduced use of Being for purpose and for profit are not mutually energy, better hiring and people exclusive. Increasingly customers will demand more management practices are from companies. Current and future employees will examples for all businesses. be attracted to companies with purpose. So it is good business to think beyond short term profit and “ create value that benefits all stakeholders. Q: What would be your advice for other For example those involved in natural resources will businesses or organisations who might be have more scope to reduce environmental impact. thinking of adopting these goals as a framework Design and construction firms will have more scope for what they do? on energy efficiency and social impact. JB: Research the UN Global Compact for the Sustainable Development Goals. Determine whether your work can be aligned to the goals, or whether your practices can be changed to support social and environmental outcomes. All companies can do something. Elimination of food waste, reduced use of energy, better hiring and people management practices are examples for all businesses. Then there are specific areas depending on the company. DENMARK SWEDEN NETHERLANDS GERMANY FRANCE Making Global UNITED JAPAN STATES OF AMERICA NEPAL PAKISTAN BHUTAN Impact MALI NIGER INDIA BURKINA FASO GHANA ETHIOPIA COTE NIGERIA SINGAPORE D’IVOIRE RWANDA KENYA INDONESIA No Poverty MOZAMBIQUE Auckland: Mapping the experience of poverty and reliance on food banks in Auckland. AUSTRALIA Zero Hunger NEW ZEALAND Nepal, India and Indonesia: Partnering with a leading philanthropic organisation to tackle malnutrition. Health and well-being Decent Work and Economic Growth Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Cote D’Ivoire: Creating programs to expand Kenya: Helping develop micro-finance Bhutan: Designing an E-Parliament for the nation of Bhutan. HIV testing and treatment for at-risk men. products for smallholder farmers in Kenya. Quality Education Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions California: Improving literacy among First Nations and Singapore: Designing initiatives for the Singapore Wellington: Co-designing a new and better way of other communities in Del Norte County, California. Government to support adults to engage with designing policy for the New Zealand Government. new technology with a positive mindset. Gender Equality Reduced Inequalities ThinkPlace Studios Canberra: Designing a new engagement strategy for Australia: Working to make the National We run eight studios spread across five countries Australia’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency. Disability Insurance Scheme more including Australia (Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra), accessible for marginalised groups. Kenya, New Zealand (Auckland, Wellington), Singapore and the United States of America. Affordable and Clean Energy Sustainable Cities and Communities Melbourne: Working with the Australian Sydney: Working with local government in ThinkPlace Making Global Impact Renewable Energy Agency to co-design A-Lab: Sydney to broker new conversations about the Countries where ThinkPlace has worked during a renewable energy innovation laboratory. future of community and built environment. the past 12 months. Labour Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining What we believe The fundamental principle that organises, collaboration. Teams form and reform according to drives and binds us together at ThinkPlace is project needs. Senior and junior colleagues learn collaboration. Ours is a workplace unlike other from each other. workplaces and has a structure unlike other workplace structures. Employees at ThinkPlace do not work for a boss. Instead, our “unboss” system allows each worker Central to this is the idea that every staff member to select their unboss from a hat. These roles – senior or junior – is a trusted collaborator. There are-re-allocated every 12 months, forging new is no top-down approach to industrial relations relationships and possibilities. The unboss is at ThinkPlace. Together we co-design the policies, responsible for helping the employee navigate a values and structure that govern each of us as world in which he or she has more than the usual ThinkPlace employees. degree of agency. Our structure is purpose-designed to avoid the Each ThinkPlacer is empowered to shape their own kind of adversarial relations that can form between future direction, to map their own career journey. But employer and worker, or between teams or they will do so in a way that is supported and that colleagues, in more conventional structures. provides them the skills to succeed. To do this we have eschewed the idea of a traditional workplace hierarchy. Instead we favour networks of criss-crossing influence and How we show it •• Our Workforce Experience Manager is a point of contact for all staff wishing to have a say on how our studios and business operate •• Our pay structure is completely transparent. Everybody knows what level each of their colleagues is at and each level has a clear salary point. These salaries were arrived at by a consultative process, featuring involvement from staff at different levels. •• Progression through the levels is predictable, and is mostly based on experience and a nurturing idea of performance. We want our people to improve, grow and progress. Criteria are clearly spelled out and those who do progress are celebrated. •• All employees can raise any issues – either collectively or independently – at a weekly all-staff meeting attended by all members of the executive. Where they are raised, such issues are taken extremely seriously. Labour Principle 4 – Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour What we believe ThinkPlace takes this principle extremely seriously. work to build and strengthen capabilities and Forced and compulsory labour are unacceptable equitable opportunities in developing nations and anywhere in the world and contravene the most emerging labour markets. fundamental of human rights. At home we treat our staff fairly and well. We Given the nature of our work takes us to many make them collaborators in a shared enterprise developing nations, we are particularly aware of and we take a fully transparent approach to their the risks and dangers associated with forced and responsibilities and conditions. We seek to hire and compulsory labour. retain the very best people. They deserve the best treatment. Such unethical labour practices not only harm the workers involved – often drawn from among the Under the ThinkPlace Global Network our offshore most vulnerable in the societies they inhabit – they studios – though operating as separate business also deprive societies of the opportunity to develop entities – are bound to adhere to the same ethical skills and human resources, and to educate framework as our Australian business. children who in later life will form the capable, ethically-developed labour markets of tomorrow. This ensures that the high standards we set at home travel with us when we embark on work in These challenges are central to the ThinkPlace other nations, where workers are potentially more sense of purpose. Across, Asia, Africa and the vulnerable to exploitation. Pacific we are engaged every day in projects that How we show it •• The ThinkPlace Ethics Screening Policy examines projects and partners for any transgressions of this nature before project contracts are signed. Significant doubts or questions around forced labour or unfair labour practices would be sufficient cause to void a project under this policy. •• ThinkPlace Australia employment contracts are written in accordance with Australian Labour laws and are written in plain English. •• ThinkPlace Australia’s role in the ThinkPlace Global Network means studios in other nations must share the same level of commitment to responsible and ethical industrial relations as our Australian business, •• Under the ThinkPlace Code of Conduct, employees are duty-bound to report back to their manager if they have witnessed what they believe to be forced or compulsory labour as part of a project they are working on. Labour Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour What we believe At ThinkPlace we understand through our work We take responsibility as a change agent – and believe as a foundational principle that any real working for new and better systems – and also and lasting change in the world begins with young as an actor in the current systems where we people and will be carried forward by them. operate – to make sure we are not engaged in any exploitation of minors. We trust and believe in the talents of coming generations to help create a better world than the We strive to build a better future for all children, all one they have entered into. But in order to play over the world. their part and grow into being engaged, productive citizens, children must be given the freedom to be The international nature of our work means that educated, to lead healthy lives and to participate staff are routinely operating in countries where in their community in ways that are constructive, there are not strong institutional safeguards to productive and age-appropriate. protect children. Child labour is a handbrake on this natural, healthy We take our positioning in these locations development process and we utterly oppose it extremely seriously and believe that we can be a having any place in our world. force for positive change. • Our recruitment and subcontracting processes Identify organisational • Policy reviews risks • Risk planning How we show it Identify specific risks of harm • Identifying risk • Education and awareness ThinkPlace has clear and non-negotiable policies • Incident reporting Rapidly report incidents and and principles in place around the protection of concerns • Concern reporting children. Many of these involve or are inclusive of • Responsibilities child labour and exploitation. Ensure protection • Acting on a report As an organisation that carries out extensive fieldwork we take care to ensure that our methods and our very presence do not cause harm. As •• Our research policy for staff in the field, an organisation dedicated to co-design we also Conducting Safe, Ethical Research, is published believe that hearing and including the voice of on our internal communications channel. All children in the design of systems that they will be a staff conducting research in the field are part of is important. required to read it. •• Our protection of Children policy – Protecting •• ThinkPlace also has a research manual, Children at ThinkPlace is published on our which provides detailed instructions on our internal communications channel. All staff are fieldwork method and deals with issues of child required to be familiar with it. exploitation and how to identify and avoid them. •• Material on how to identify and report child •• The ThinkPlace approach to conducting exploitation is included in the induction process research with people in vulnerable situations is for all staff. another document we have created that gives guidance to staff in this area. Our work In part, the conditions for forced labour or labour product’s intended customers and their needs. exploitation occur because family groups in The team continued to engage end users to test developing countries lack the financial capital to be the concepts and prototype the products to make self-sufficient or build a business. sure that the final product would work. ThinkPlace has been involved in work that seeks The asset finance and maintenance product will to rectify this problem. We worked with Jamii Bora enable farmers to own and manage an incomeBank, a micro finance bank in Kenya on the pilot generating agricultural asset that will be sourced launch of its new financial product, MazaoPlus, and financed by the bank. The pilot will initially an asset finance and maintenance loan geared focus on financing of dairy cows, followed by towards smallholder farmers. The product greenhouses and irrigation equipment. launch marks the culmination of a nine-month engagement for ThinkPlace, which partnered with Marketing this product to low-income farmers Grameen Foundation and Jamii Bora Bank to carry means going into the communities, engaging with out in-depth user research to inform the design and farmers and building trust. Jamii Bora will also development of the new financial product. use community farmer agents, who are trusted members of the community, to promote the new The team spent weeks in the field, meeting with product and help build a community of farmers farmers and stakeholders in the agricultural value that it can support through its financial and chain, to gather in-depth information about the information services. Labour Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation What we believe ThinkPlace takes a strong position on ensuring our We also uphold and prosecute these values workplace is free from discrimination. We have a through our client work. For example, ThinkPlace longstanding policy of balancing our workforce to is proud to be a design partner with the National ensure men and women are evenly represented. Disability Insurance Agency. This important agency is introducing the ‘generational reform’ that is the We embrace diversity, inclusion and gender National Disability Insurance Scheme. equality. Our diversity strategy recognises the need for cultural diversity, inclusion and gender equality The scheme enables many Australians living with to be a considered part of our decision making. a disability to play a greater and more fulfilling role Discrimination can take place across a variety of in the national workforce. ThinkPlace is helping areas, including gender, age, sexual orientation, the NDIA to ensure that the scheme is inclusive for religious or cultural affiliation and others. groups including LGBTQ+, Indigenous and other communities who are in danger of marginalization. We take great care to ensure not only that we do not discriminate against people along these lines but that our workplace attracts and holds a diversity comprising members of such groups. How we show it •• ThinkPlace has a 50/50 gender profile across •• We build into our recruitment strategies targets our workforce. This is the case at each level of for diversity and equality. This means we seek seniority, including our most senior designers. to attract and keep a good balance of diverse At least one third of our team are of non-Anglo team members aligned to ThinkPlace values Saxon background, and our age profile is also and purpose. As we review applicants, and as incredibly varied, ranging from graduates in we seek out people in the market we know their early 20s to people in their late 60s. what we are looking for in terms of goals. This helps to enable positive discrimination for a •• This diverse group brings fresh and diverse business outcome. perspectives to our client work and to our business decisions. It is an asset for a •• We look across our business value chain and company based on collaboration. seek out partners who can assist us to meet our commitment to diversity and inclusion. For •• Our business advisers including our board example we have Indigenous and Aboriginal are also formed from a gender and culturally businesses supplying our catering and diverse group. This is a recent renewal for our stationary. This is important to us because we company and we are already seeing benefits believe in contributing to an economy that is such as natural bias in our executive team diverse and inclusive. being challenged, new ideas on the table, and progression in areas that will make our company better performing. Our work Gender equality is an increasingly important issue We found that audiences and stakeholders in Australian workplaces. Employers understand used a wider range of the Agency’s content than that reducing the gender gap will increase their expected to learn and source inspiration for new organisation’s performance. They are looking initiatives. Working closely with staff, we helped for advice and initiatives that will improve the the Agency translate the research insights into a composition of their workforce so all their vision for meeting these new and evolving needs for employees can thrive. information. We then developed a digital roadmap that explained how to get there with clear and The Workplace Gender Equality Agency collects prioritised steps towards increasing the impact of the data about Australia’s private sector workforce and agency’s content. provides advice, tools and education to employers. The Agency asked ThinkPlace to create a plan that Staff responded to our workshops and focus groups will make their information more accessible for throughout the project with positive energy and the employers, increase its use and broaden its impact. digital roadmap was received enthusiastically by Executive, who are now working to implement the We began by speaking with Agency staff to high priority recommendations. find out how they managed and published their information. We then studied their website With this plan in place, employers will be able to find analytics to understand how the website was the information they need to improve the gender being used before asking the Agency’s audiences balance in their workforce and the agency will be able and stakeholders about their needs. to use its own resources to make greater impact. Q&A with Darren Menachemson, Partner and Chief Ethicist An ethical approach is key to the ThinkPlace culture. We sat down with the man charged with making sure we stay true to our principles. And personally, it lets me feel that I am taking personal accountability for the world I will leave behind for my daughter. That’s important to me. Q&A Q: So you’re the Chief Ethicist at ThinkPlace. What be prototyping a new service for vulnerable New does that mean? Zealanders. DM: ThinkPlace’s mission is to use design to have In work as complex and diverse as this, we will a positive impact on the world. Every day, every inevitably confront questions like “What should we ThinkPlacer will make decisions that will have do here?” Some of these can be resolved just by an impact on the broader community. The Chief following ThinkPlace policies, and others are unique Ethicist role the CEthO was created to make sure to a situation and mean that we need to go beyond that those decisions align with our values. our policy to do good and avoid doing harm. This ethical introspection starts right at the point where Q: Why do we have a Chief Ethicist? How does this we choose to take on a project, or refuse it because relate to our growth as a global operator as well as we feel it will lead to a harmful outcome, and sustains our guiding sense of purpose and identity? at every point from how we conduct research, to how we facilitate co-design conversations, to how we DM: ThinkPlace works around the world, partnering design new programs or services. with governments, NGOs and communities to design in some of the most complex, sensitive The Chief Ethicist helps by taking responsibility for spaces in society. One week we may be designing making sure our policies are as helpful for ethics a new regulatory program in Australia, the next navigation as they can be, for getting people to researching barriers for new mothers trying to raise grapple deeply with simulated ethical dilemma healthy babies in Kenya, and the week after we may scenarios in preparation for their occurring in a realworld context. Q: How did you arrive at this position? What to society or the environment. The truth is makes you suited to it? that businesses can be forces for good in the world and be commercially successful it’s DM: I proposed the position at the same meeting not a trade-off, it’s a design challenge. Shifting where we collectively decided to shift our mission to a stronger ethical posture can inspire from “public good” to “public good focused on the transformative “shared value” business models and UN’s Sustainable Development Goals”. innovative investments which can make a business The executive was immediately and unanimously in more successful, not less. Appointing a CEthO is a favour of making it happen. major step in choosing to take this challenge on. Q: Is this a position that is becoming more Q: Tell us about how ethics work at ThinkPlace. prevalent across the corporate world or is it an How do we ensure that projects we take on are anomaly? making the world a better place and not causing harm? DM: We see some corporates weaving ethics strongly into their culture and their governance. DM: As my first action as CEthO, I brought a Where this happens it has a powerful effect. On the group together with membership from every other hand, we often see organisations relying on ThinkPlace studio around the world to develop audit-style arrangements that feel more like legal an approach to ethical screening. When we and brand compliance. consider taking on a new client we conduct an ethics screen, which asks whether we may end Ultimately, the deeper your ethics are woven up contributing to a harmful project, or supporting into your business, the harder it becomes to a harmful organisation or industry. Anyone can say “yes” to operating in a way that is harmful trigger an ethical screen, but if any ethical issues are identified, they are raised with the CEthO who conversations for staff where we consider an may take it to the executive. If we feel that the ethical dilemma and discuss how we could and client or the project will represent a net harm on should react to it. society, or if working with them would not be in keeping with our ethics and values, we say no. This is supported by an ethics framework that includes a code of conduct, and a number of policies We also establish an environment where, if and programs that ensure we work in an ethical way a ThinkPlacer feels that on a project, they are both on clients projects, and on internal projects. being asked to participate in abetting a societal harm, they can raise the issue and this may result in our working with the client to deal with the Q: This is important to you. Why? harm, or withdrawing from the project. We try to prepare our people to respond to ethical issues in DM: Our work often places us face-to-face with the right way. Several times a year, we run ethics people experiencing vulnerability. We find ourselves facilitating conversations with inspiring people who are actively working towards a better world. These “ And personally, it lets me feel that I am taking personal are the voices that stay with us, demand more out of us, and help us be an advocate for and contributor to the public good. accountability for the world I will leave behind for my daughter. And personally, it lets me feel that I am taking “ That’s important to me. personal accountability for the world I will leave behind for my daughter. That’s important to me. Environment Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges What we believe The nature of our business means we rarely directly face environmental challenges that require risk management in the face of uncertainty. Primarily our environmental responsibility occurs within a context of greater evidence and certainty about possible harm and environmental sustainability. Nevertheless there is potential for engagement and improvement in this area. Our application of the precautionary principle could be improved through re-assessing our main suppliers and understanding the transparency of their supply chain with a view to environmental responsibility, low carbon and sustainable practices. Where transparency does not exist, we should switch to suppliers that we can best deem environmentally sustainable. How we show it •• ThinkPlace has a strong environmental policy in place. All staff are expected to be aware of it and to comply with it. •• ThinkPlace has not previously conducted an audit to determine the extent of the company’s environmental impact. As part of preparing for this report it has been decided that such an audit would be beneficial. •• ThinkPlace already has a policy of preferring precautionary approach that encourages action suppliers who have a better record on and innovation. A systems design approach sustainability and environmental practices. can help avoid harm through divergent generation of alternatives and identifying harm•• We have increased our work with clients in minimised courses of action. This is something the environment sector, and through that to explore further in the future. work we seek collaborative action in the face of uncertainty. Amplifying the precautionary principle could complement our approach in this sector, and indeed, a design approach could help find ways to implement a Our work WWF Designathon ThinkPlace works with partners around the world on projects aiming to advance the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. From Kenya to Canberra, we seek to build sustainable public value through collaborative design. David Ireland, a Principal at ThinkPlace, judged a recent sustainable development goals designathon organised by WWF Australia. More than 60 participants pitched 13 ideas for prizes including cash and entry into incubators and Over three days, the event brought together accelerators. Ideas ranged from youth education entrepreneurs, investors, not-for-profits, and programs to rooftop and modular urban farming businesses to support and promote innovative, low models. Almost as impressive as the ideas was carbon and zero carbon solutions to two of the the passion that the teams displayed for building a challenges underpinning the SDGs: removing the better, more sustainable future. barriers to uptake affordable, renewable energy for culturally and linguistically diverse and vulnerable The scale and complexity of the SDGs require communities in Australia; and securing future new approaches, like the designathon, to harness food systems by transforming the way consumers collective intelligence and resources and to select their food at point of purchase. mobilise large sections of the population. Environment Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility What we believe Our commitment to a better world is inextricably Our client work adopts a design approach that has linked to a belief that it is our role and duty to a bias towards action and collaboration in the face promote greater environmental responsibility. We of uncertainty. It asks ‘what if?’, and ‘how might we’ do this in two key ways. achieve a vision of a sustainable environment and low carbon energy future. And where in the system 1. Through our own internal practices. The can we best intervene or innovate. Examples way we work, the products we consume, the include: systems we have in place for reducing, reusing, recycling or conserving resources. •• A-Lab: catalysing projects that seek crosssectoral collaboration to increase renewable 2.The work we do. ThinkPlace plays a leading energy uptake role in advocating for greater environmental outcomes, helping to shape policy in this area •• Collaboration with the environment sector and co-designing projects that accelerate relating to environmental management, the transition to a more sustainable future. biodiversity, and regulatory frameworks. We are proud to support the Rio Declaration on •• Consumer-centred innovation across the Environment and Development and seek to live energy sector these principles in our own corporate behaviour and spread them globally through our work with clients. •• Improving data access for environmental policy development How we show it ThinkPlace operates three studios within Australia. The largest of these is our Canberra studio. Since ThinkPlace moved to new premises at the start of 2017, we have increased our efforts to operate more sustainably in the following ways: •• Purchasing from local suppliers •• Using supplies that have minimum packaging or the ability to be recycled We continue to positively reinforce this message by reminding staff about what is/isn’t recyclable. •• Using suppliers who have active and ongoing sustainable use policies •• Staff are encouraged to use bicycles to get to/ from work, and our building has good end-of-trip We are members of the ACT Government’s facilities. We are investigating the purchase of ACTSmart business recycling program, and electric bicycles which would be for travel to/from currently manage all our office waste responsibly: local meetings, instead of driving or using taxis. sorting into organic, recyclable and landfill items. As members of this program, our staff were •• Where possible, we re-purpose, sell or giveaway asked to undertake a brief online training module unwanted office furniture or equipment. explaining how recycling in the ACT works, and what individuals can do to operate more sustainably. “ When planning this new studio we have constantly sought to place environmental impact at the centre of our thinking. As Growing presence, we expand our business and our reach, we want to ensure that our environmental careful footprint footprint gets proportionally smaller. “ Our recent story has been one of growth. ThinkPlace is expanding in terms of turnover and workforce size. We are also expanding Measures taken to enact this include: geographically. •• Using almost 100 per cent recycled or existing During the past year we have added a new studio furniture. in Melbourne, Australia – bringing our global presence to a total of eight studios across five •• Installing double glazing on all windows to countries. minimise electricity use Opening a new studio has the potential to •• Creating a public transport first policy. For all dramatically increase our environmental impact. It short trips within the area, public transport or increases the space we occupy, the energy we use walking is to be used instead of taxis or Uber. and requires resources and materials for fit-out, •• Installing white board walls around the studio in furniture and technology. order to minimise paper use. •• A policy of selecting building materials that are sustainable and have low environmental impact. Environment Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies What we believe ThinkPlace is a rapidly-growing company that During the past 12 months we have led many is founded with a declared goal of designing for projects in the area of digital transformation. This the public good. This sense of purpose is further is a core part of our business. As such, we are demonstrated by the company’s adoption of the committed to introducing innovations that vastly United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as improve connectivity and communication within our own organisational objectives. complex systems and organisations. We acknowledge the importance of limiting This results in a diminished use of paper and other environmental impact for a company, like ours, physical resources (as key processes are digitally that strives to be an ethical operator in a global transformed) and a corresponding diminished marketplace. requirement for travel. At the same time we have striven to reduce our own footprint through our use ThinkPlace is predominantly a services provider. of digital technology. We work with clients to design innovative solutions to their complex problems. In this way we are Our geographical footprint makes this a challenge well-placed to make an impact encouraging and at times. Wherever possible, we use video facilitating the broader adoption of environmentallyconferencing to carry out meetings with staff in friendly technologies outside of our four walls. Our other locations. Our use of air travel remains higher very existence is based on encouraging clients to than we would like but has decreased proportionally act in ways that create public good. as the size of our workforce has grown. How we show it •• ThinkPlace has an Environmental Policy that specifies the nature and extent of our commitment to sustainability. All staff are expected to be familiar with it. •• We are currently in the process of introducing a new system for assembling the teams of consultants who work on each client job. ThinkPlace Environment Policy The new system aims to assemble teams based around an objective assessment of core competencies, availability and location, removing some of the human preferences •• Our studios are not just workplaces for our that drive team selection currently. This should people; they are venues that host more than result in a more efficient distribution of staff, 30,000 clients and visitors each year. Within further reducing the need for air travel. this context there is significant scope to not only reduce impact but to demonstrate •• Our monthly, all-day Executive meeting has leadership. Our studios make use of recycled been identified as a key source of air travel that furniture, and our guests are served locally and can be reduced without negative effect. As a sustainably sourced food. We provide water in result this meeting has been restructured and recycled, glass receptacles and do not supply will now take place via digital technology. guests with single-use bottled water. •• We have identified principles 7, 8 and 9 as areas where ThinkPlace can make a significant improvement in the coming year. Our membership of the Global Compact has been instrumental in reaching this conclusion. •• ThinkPlace has resolved to conduct an independent, external audit of our environmental footprint during the next 12 months. This will help us to identify areas where we are performing in line with our values and aspirations, as well as areas where there is room for improvement. Our work A-Lab Renewable sources of energy are essential to a fragmentation in the energy sector. We brought sustainable future. Bringing more renewable energy together innovation experts with a wide range of onto the grid has, however, been challenging. industry stakeholders, to come up with new ways Technical, regulatory and commercial factors often to adopt more renewable energy. pull in different directions, slowing the adoption of cleaner sources of energy. Change requires The result was A-Lab, ARENA’s innovation lab. coordinated effort between government agencies, A-Lab draws on a network of people with a energy companies and innovators with exciting range of expertise to make systemic change. It new technologies. includes not just industry representatives but also customers and other related sectors. The Australian Renewable Energy Agency works to accelerate this change and bring the best This diverse range of stakeholders co-designed renewable energy ideas to life. An Australian A-Lab. We developed an Innovation Model and the government body, ARENA funds new technologies concept of innovation frames, tangible and tactical and shares knowledge about renewable energy. programs of work, to guide new creative solutions. ARENA partnered with ThinkPlace to stimulate A-Lab is working right now, engaging electricity more collaborative innovation and reduce sector players and generating new initiatives. Through A-Lab, people work together towards an affordable, reliable and low carbon electricity ecosystem of the future. By bringing together people from diverse backgrounds, projects that are developed through the A-Lab are innovative, collaborative and connected. “ This diverse range of stakeholders co-designed A-Lab. We developed an Innovation Model and the concept of innovation frames, tangible and tactical programs of work, to guide new creative solutions. “ Q&A with David Ireland, Head of Innovation At ThinkPlace our mission is to innovate with purpose. We pursue new and better ways of doing things: for ourselves and for our clients. That process is driven across the organisation by all staff, joining in our shared, declared values and purpose. Global Innovation Lead Dr David Ireland has specific responsibility for balancing innovation with sustainability and public good. ...but in terms of skills, it is a mindset, a willingness to try and fail, and a focus on creating value for the customer. Q&A Q: David Ireland, you’re the Head of Innovation at same thinking we used when we created them – ThinkPlace. What does that involve? is so apt in our setting. We need innovation to find new approaches to solving old and/or big DI: It means helping ThinkPlace people thinking problems. And the type of innovation we do allows differently, to think creatively, and to be open us to experiment in ways that are low risk, so we’re to trying new methods and approaches. It also not betting the house on something without first means helping to find new services and products running a few experiments to build our confidence that we can build up into new value creating that it is going to work. offerings for our clients and for use internally. Q: How did you arrive at this position? What skills Q: Why is innovation important to ThinkPlace? How and background do you bring to it? does it sit with our guiding sense of purpose and identity? DI: It sounds silly, but I’ve been building solutions to problems for ever. My first attempt at a company DI: Innovation is about doing something new was as a late teenager, when I tried to establish that creates value. With our mission, our version a business for back packers coming through of innovation is about doing something new that business looking for work, and I’ve been doing creates a better future for people. The types it ever since. In fields as diverse as aquaculture, and complexity of the problems we’re trying to digital, agriculture, oil and gas, medical, and finance. solve require new approaches. The old Einstein I’ve also got a dual PhD in medicinal chemistry quote – we can’t solve our problems with the (where I was designing and building anti cancer “ ...but in terms of skills, it is a mindset, a willingness to try drugs) and innovation (looking at how new tech firms grow). I’ve also been the General Manager of and fail, and a focus on creating value for the customer. Innovation and International at CSIRO. That’s my experience, but in terms of skills, it is a mindset, a “ willingness to try and fail, and a focus on creating value for the customer. Q: Innovation is an area that now has its own Q: Should this kind of role be more prevalent? language, its own tools and its own philosophy. What can companies gain by having a Head of How confident are you that we can use ideas Innovation as part of their leadership? How has like technical disruption, entrepreneurship and ThinkPlace benefited from it? design thinking or tools like sprints, pitches and DI: Yes. The problem is that innovation isn’t hackathons to create a better future state? understood well. You are seeing varieties of it DI: Everything is a buzzword if there isn’t popping up, but by and large, companies are still in substance behind it. You can download a the same mindset of other than a CEO it is a COO ie. methodology on anything from the internet, but Operational focus on today as opposed to thinking the skill is in knowing what and when to apply about the future and what we could do differently to it. I’m not a particularly big fan of hackathons, for create that better future for us and our clients. example, but in the right circumstance, they can be really effective. The problem is that most of the time people use them as they don’t have any better idea. Having said that, it is important to build a common understanding of language so we all know what we’re doing and meaning. Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery What we believe ThinkPlace takes particular pride in having a strong, uncompromising leadership position in the area of fighting and resisting corruption. We see corruption, in its many forms, as a root cause behind much of the suffering and disadvantage in the world today. This is particularly the case in parts of the world that have weak, compromised or simply nascent institutions. Helping to design, improve and develop stronger government and non-government institutions, and a culture of respecting them, is an important focus of our work. As an organisation we have zero tolerance for corruption. It is a fundamental, non-negotiable position and we uphold it as a matter of conscience. How we show it •• ThinkPlace supports the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. •• Our company Ethics Policy stipulates Supports Code of Conduct Staff Training mandatory reporting for any staff who are UN Convention Against Corruption approached or who witness corrupt activity. •• ThinkPlace Code of Conduct spells out how each employee must conform to strict standards of behaviour in this area. Each •• Extensive ethics training sessions are held for all ThinkPlacer is responsible for upholding the staff every six months. These sessions include best version of our collective values. both re-education around ThinkPlace policies as well as scenario-based training to help identify •• Penalties for corrupt behaviour are termination and avoid corruption triggers and situations of employment and the immediate involvement where vulnerability to corruption arises. of appropriate law enforcement agencies. This is communicated to staff in policies, during •• Another policy: Can I accept that gift? Places training (including induction) and is also upper limits of $50 on any gifts that can be stipulated in employment contracts. accepted during work in the field. Gifts above this amount must be refused and the overture must be reported. Managing corruption and conflict of interest at ThinkPlace •• ThinkPlace is committed to ensuring we do not inadvertently work with others who are engaged in corrupt behaviour. Our thorough and systematic ethics audit of every project Become aware of it includes examining partners and ensuring they meet our expectations as ethical operators. Conflict of interest Corruption Rapidly disclose it Resist it Manage it Rapidly disclose it thinkplaceglobal.com
