Annual And Corporate Responsibility Report 17 | 2 | ﻿ Contents 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 4 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES 83 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 11 6.1. General Meeting 86 6.1.1. Powers, procedure, 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE 18 performance 86 6.1.2. Right to attend, 4. ABOUT US 27 delegation and voting 86 4.1. Group overview 27 6.2. Board of Directors 87 4.1.1. Mission, vision and values 27 6.2.1. Membership, powers, 4.1.2. Subsidiaries 28 procedure and performance 87 4.1.3. Management team 29 6.2.2. Assessment and remuneration 91 4.1.4. Ownership structure 30 6.3. Board committees 93 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 33 6.3.1. Executive Committee 93 5.1. Our business environment 33 6.3.2. Audit and Control Committee 93 6.3.3. Appointments and 5.2. Material issues 36 Remuneration Committee 94 5.2.1. Materiality analysis overview 36 6.4. Risk management 95 5.2.2. Materiality matrix 37 6.4.1. Risk management and 5.2.3. Link between material control system 95 issues and report content 38 6.4.2. Main risks materialising 5.3. Business model and strategy 40 in 2017 99 5.3.1. Strategy and description 6.4.3. Cybersecurity and of priorities 41 data protection 100 5.3.2. Activity overview 43 6.5. Compliance system 102 5.3.3. Major stakeholders 72 5.3.4. Corporate responsibility 74 5.3.5. Management quality 77 5.4. Ethics management 79 This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. on 21st March 2018. Point of contact for issues concerning the content and process of definition of the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report: Atresmedia, Corporate Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13, San Sebastián de los Reyes CP 28703 (Madrid) comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Tel: (+34) 91 623 05 00 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ﻿ | 3 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 107 7.4. To our advertisers 159 7.1. To shareholders 107 7.4.1. Responsible advertising 159 7.1.1. Share performance 107 7.4.2. Return on investment 161 7.1.2. Shareholder return 109 7.4.3. Innovation in advertising 162 7.1.3. Financial results 110 7.4.4. Effectiveness and impact 163 7.1.4. Transparency 112 7.5. To our suppliers 164 7.1.5. Investor and 7.5.1. Production companies 165 shareholder relations 112 7.5.2. Distributors 166 7.2. To our employees 114 7.5.3. Other suppliers of 7.2.1. The human team goods and services 167 at Atresmedia 115 7.6. To the environment 168 7.2.2. Employment relationships 7.6.1. Efficient use of resources that benefit everyone 119 and waste management 169 7.2.3. Training and professional 7.6.2. Reducing emissions 171 development 119 7.6.3. Environmental awareness 172 7.2.4. Committed to young talent 124 7.2.5. Internal communication 125 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT 175 7.2.6. Employee benefits 126 8.1. Boundaries and preparation process 175 7.2.7. Committed to equality, 8.2. GRI content index 176 diversity and work-life balance 126 8.3. Independent external review 181 7.2.8. Occupational health and safety 127 7.3. To society 128 7.3.1. Contribution to the SDGs 128 7.3.2. Awareness initiatives 137 7.3.3. Accessibility 147 7.3.4. Child protection 148 7.3.5. Social interest contents 150 7.3.6. Corporate volunteering 152 7.3.7. Fundación Atresmedia 156 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 4 | 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN In 2017 Atresmedia navigated a highly complex environment. Once again, our ability to adapt to constantly shifting scenarios has been put to the test. Given the difficulties that we have faced, we come before you with a sense of pride in our achievement: a set of figures for the year that can only be described as excellent. The Group’s performance reflects the efforts of our strong team of professionals, the unflagging and valuable support of the Board and, of course, our shareholders’ confidence in the management team. For yet another year, Atresmedia has proved that it is a strong and successful company. The fact that we are Spain’s largest Communication Group is no mere accident. It is the outcome of the way we do business. For a number of years, we have pursued, vigorously and with conviction, a strategy predicated on quality content, professionalism, a diversity of viewpoints and support for the industry. Our focus on these vectors of action, which cut José Creuheras ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 5 | across all our areas of activity, is the key to our success. What defines us and places us in a leading position in the eyes of the general public, which values and rewards our efforts to avoid the easy way out and, instead, achieve excellence. We have undeniably proved that our model brings together sustainable leadership with an attractive return on investment; our strong business performance is wedded to the recognition and confidence of our viewers, listeners and advertisers. The worth of our business philosophy is borne out by the The Group’s strong facts and by our performance. performance is a reflection of our The figures achieved in 2017 reflect these values, which are common superb team of to the entire Company, and are also the outcome of our willingness to professionals, the understand and rise to challenges as they emerge in our surroundings. unflagging and We are not scared of change. Rather, change is what drives us valuable support of forward and enables us to become our best selves. And 2017 was the Board and, of certainly a year of change. The internationalisation of our content, course, the confidence the founding of Atresmedia Studios, the acquisition of SmartClip and placed in the the enhancement of our diversification policy all clearly exemplify our management team by refusal to conform or rest on our laurels, and our ability to adapt and our shareholders consistently improve. 2017 also saw our Group become finally and firmly established as Spain’s leading news organisation. And this, again, is no mere coincidence or short-term trick. It is the outcome of a long-term commitment to a diversity of viewpoints, and quality news and reporting. Our coverage of the Catalan independence process via Antena 3 Noticias, laSexta Noticias and the Onda Cero news unit was the go-to option for millions of people, and strengthened our bond to the real concerns of the wider community. This success shows that our strategy was the right one, even though the fruits were not borne immediately. As a result, Atresmedia has moved to the forefront, and we can now say that we are the most influential Group. And not just through our news and current affairs programming. We also lead the pack with our entertainment and fiction content. Because influence also consists of people talking about your series or game shows in their day-to-day lives. To be influential and address the concerns closest to wider society is all part of what we want to be. This is an attribute that becomes especially significant in a changing and highly competitive environment. Our influence places us in a stronger position facing new entrants and sets us apart from more conventionally-minded operators; it will bring us quantifiable benefits in many respects. Our willingness to provide service and our commitment to the public make us part of the backbone of wider society. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 6 | 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN The television division has again proved its robustness through a Our strategy as a model that is recognised for its news programming, its entertainment Group is based on and its fiction, which is endorsed by audience ratings and best able content quality, to withstand a scenario of increasing fragmentation. Among other professionalism, a achievements, Antena 3 ended 2017 as the unrivalled leader in the diversity of viewpoints, morning and weekend timeslots, while laSexta again outstripped and support for the its main competitor for the fifth year running. Our specialindustry. Our focus on interest channels, Neox, Nova, Mega and Atreseries, rounded out these vectors of action, Atresmedia Televisión’s successful offering. The television division which cut across all is capable of generating prestigious and widely recognised brands; it our areas of activity, is is a veritable factory of quality content that is distributed around the the key to our success, world and of which we are very proud. This high quality is enabling and defines us as a us to prove that our strategy as a content factory is effective. In this benchmark for wider sense, the last step in this direction has been Atresmedia Studios, a society. pioneer production venture for the creation, design and production of content to third parties, which already has a wide range of both Spanish and international customers. Atresmedia Radio is still going strong, based as it is on credibility, diversity of viewpoints, entertainment and closeness to people’s real concerns. The past few years have been complex for our radio division, but we are beginning to see positive results. We have the best offer on the market, even though our smaller number of broadcasting bases means that we are not competing on an equal footing. Onda Cero proved its immense strength: it was the only general-interest radio station to grow in the last two consecutive waves of the EGM audience survey, and ended 2017 with 3% growth, doubling the market average. Our superb team of professionals are determined to remain at the forefront and even surpass their own achievements: this has lent still greater strength to our radio presence. We have now been joined by Jaime Cantizano, who will work alongside leading journalists like Carlos Alsina, Juan Ramón Lucas, Julia Otero, Héctor Fernández and Javier Ruiz Taboada or Jose Ramón de la Morena among other superb journalists. Atresmedia Publicidad effectively leveraged all the Group’s resources, and again in 2017 led the advertising market, being the advertising exclusivist with the highest share in the market, of around 20% and the highest power ratios in its chosen areas. In addition, in line with the Group’s overarching search for innovation, the Advertising division opened up new market niches. In this sense I would like to highlight the acquisition of Smartclip Latam, which makes Atresmedia the leading Spanish operator in the online advertising market and bolsters its strategy in that field. Atresmedia Digital retained our position as the leading audiovisual Our coverage of the group on the Internet and placed among the top ten most visited Catalan independence websites in Spain, according to Comscore; it raised its monthly process via Antena 3 average unique visitors to 27 million, and moved forward towards Noticias, laSexta tighter integration at a time when the online world is becoming Noticias and the Onda increasingly important. Cero news unit was the go-to option for Atresmedia Diversificación, which brings together the Group’s millions of people, and businesses not tied to conventional advertising, had great success strengthened our bond in increasing the number of homes that subscribe to its three to the real concerns of international channels, comfortably topping 50 million worldwide: this the wider community places us as the European private operator with the largest number of channels and subscribers overseas. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 7 | Atresmedia Cine produced nine feature films in 2017, which accounted for 29.3% of box office takings by Spanish productions. Five of those films were produced by our Film Division – a mandatory investment which we have been able to leverage – and made it into the box office top ten. In addition to the annual challenges we face as a Company and the circumstances of the given time in the economy, Atresmedia must address key issues in the regulatory domain. For many years, We are the most we have called upon lawmakers to support stronger stability and influential Group with our security in the industry. We asked for a friendlier regulatory stance news and current affairs towards the second digital dividend, and a specific timetable for the programming, and with switchover to digital that will benefit users and industry alike. This our entertainment and issue will, after all, shape the future development of television in fiction content. To be Spain. We have of course urged government bodies to deal with the influential is part of what regulatory challenges posed by the development of the audiovisual we want to be. This is an sector. Against a background of rapid change in the media, our attribute that becomes Group wants to see open competition on an equal footing; the legal especially significant in rules should apply to all operators equally. It is our hope that the a changing and highly regulatory symmetry that we are asking for – and which is surely competitive environment reasonable – will enable us to serve the wider community to the best of our ability. We also ask that regulators not resign themselves to defeat in the face of difficulty. The audiovisual world evolves at breakneck speed every day, and calls into being new realities that must be regulated. An example here is child protection: we are required and rightly so to stay alert so as not to harm a highly vulnerable sector of the population, and yet in other media there is no oversight at all. The key milestone in corporate responsibility this year was the design and adoption of Atresmedia’s second corporate responsibility Master Plan, which will bring together all sustainability actions for the next three years. This new strategy is the outcome of a process of introspection through which Atresmedia’s management team identified all the non-financial aspects that create value for our business and our main stakeholders. The mainstreaming of corporate responsibility is a path we took some time ago, but this new plan is a key turning point for the Group, because it establishes strong underpinnings for integrating responsible management with our business in a more consistent and universal way, with a focus on creating value internally and externally. In addition, the plan will enable us to respond more effectively to the new requirements and demands of the society in which we live. One of the first results of that process of introspection is the shift in focus for the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report which we publish today. Atresmedia has reported on its sustainability performance for more than a decade, but this is the first time that our Group publishes an integrated report setting out the relationships between strategy, governance and financial performance and the social, economic and environmental setting in which the Organisation operates. The Report addresses all the issues that bear upon our strategy and are relevant to our shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, thus providing a comprehensive vision of everything we do. In addition to the Group’s traditional community role, this new report enhances the information about key strategic issues, such as risk management and the strengthening of our Corporate Governance, which is now compliant with almost every recommendation in this field, thus making us a stronger and more reliable organisation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 8 | 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN As to our community role, given that we are a medium of Against a background communication, a highlight is Atresmedia’s determination to place the of rapid change in the Group’s whole communicative potential at the service of wider society media, our Group wants and its vital concerns. Compromiso Atresmedia is the conceptual to see open competition umbrella that embraces all our corporate responsibility initiatives, on an equal footing; the as reflected in our media and also internally within the Company. legal rules should apply Supporting road safety, raising awareness of healthy lifestyle choices, to all operators equally. protecting the environment, supporting scientific research, fighting It is our hope that the against gender violence and advocating the creation and protection regulatory symmetry of intellectual property continue to be issues to which we are firmly that we are asking for committed. – and which is surely reasonable – will enable In 2017 we expanded the Ponle Freno races to Pontevedra, Palma de us to serve the wider Mallorca and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, while raising awareness community to the best of of the dangers of mobile phone use while driving. In 2017, the Ponle our ability Freno race circuit brought in more than 178,000 euros, which were allocated in full to projects in support of traffic accident victims. Asturias, Madrid and Valencia are now “heart-protected” territories thanks to the campaign on the installation and use of defibrillators carried out by Constantes y Vitales. This project also had a research aspect: Harald zur Hausen, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for his research on the influence of the papilloma virus on the onset of cancer, was a guest speaker in Madrid. The Group kept up its support for the fight against gender violence by means of its Tolerancia Cero (zero tolerance) project, encompassing campaigns on how to isolate domestic violence perpetrators and combat sexist micro-aggressions. Hazte Eco took part in a “Save the Climate” campaign by broadcasting ads calling for action against climate change. In 2017, our commitment to raising awareness in the community involved us with a range of NGOs, to which we donated free advertising campaigns to a value of more than 12 million euros. Crea Cultura continues to move forward as a leading advocate of the creation and protection of intellectual property. One of its recent projects is Crea Lectura, a new TV show on literature broadcast by laSexta. As you can see, our contribution to society is not limited to broadcasting awareness-raising campaigns externally. We also aim to bring about real change internally within our Group. Consistency is another of the values that inspire us. Hence, in 2017 we hosted cardiopulmonary resuscitation and defibrillator courses involving more than 200 Group employees, and also ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 9 | held our second “Road Safety Week” to train our people in this field. We are also aware that our professionals are one of our best assets, This is the first time that so another of our commitments is to offer them a rewarding and our Group publishes an highly motivating workplace. We have accordingly made progress integrated report setting with enhancing our people’s work-life balance by introducing out the relationships improvements in the collective bargaining agreement signed in 2017. between strategy, We also support equality: 50.4% of our employees are now women. governance and financial Moreover, we made further efforts to provide employees with quality performance and the training to enable them to rise to the new challenges we now face. social, economic and But that’s not all: we want to build an active dialogue and engagement environmental setting in with our professionals and offer them forums for sharing ideas in aid which the organisation of internal innovation. This is the intention behind Project Th’nk, operates which became firmly established in 2017. The initiative is designed to encourage Atresmedia employees to come together in a space of inspiration, communication and teamwork and bring out their intrapreneurial spirit. Of course, I cannot fail to mention the dedicated engagement of Group employees who took part in the Corporate Volunteering Programme, which has now been in place for a decade. The programme has involved the donation of more than 2,300 hours of employees’ time to charity work, including helping out at food kitchens for the homeless, providing support to the elderly and the disabled, and helping to train unemployed young people. That same spirit of improvement and active engagement in these fields of sustainability drove Atresmedia to join the Fundación SERES, which supports companies’ commitment to playing a role in the community, and the Forética Environment Cluster, a leading We have supported corporate responsibility forum, which Atresmedia joined last year as road safety, raised the first media member. This is the second focus group we join after awareness of the transparency, good governance and integrity cluster. These moves healthy lifestyle exemplify the significance we attach to the values of community choices, protected commitment, sustainability and integrity. the environment, supported scientific Through the Fundación Atresmedia we continued to channel research, fought against charitable aid from the Group for child protection, better education, gender violence and and integration of people with disabilities. Milestones included the advocated the creation “Great Teachers” event, which drew record attendance this year, or the and protection of celebration of the Hospitalized Child Day; the campaign undertaken intellectual property: in partnership with the Fundación Randstad to raise awareness these continue to be of the need to integrate people with disabilities, and support for issues to which we are occupational training. firmly committed I should like to mention some of the accolades that the company achieved in 2017. For the second year running, the Rep Trak España 2017 research survey rated us as the audiovisual group with the strongest reputation. The rating is based on consumer opinions on our financial strength, capability for innovation, leadership and offered range of entertainment and news. I should also mention that the 2017 Randstad Employer Branding report placed us as the best place to work in the communication sector. In addition, one of our latest successes is Atresmedia Formación, where we provide quality training to enable the future professionals of the audiovisual and communications sector to rise ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 10 | 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN to the new challenges we now face. One year after the launch of this The Fundación new division, which provides training courses on topics relating to Atresmedia continues television, radio, film, communications and IT, we can confidently say to channel the Group’s that we are on track to become the leading benchmark in Spain. We community support have a catalogue of 400 courses and have entered into partnerships for child protection, with a range of prestigious Spanish and international institutions. better education and the integration of people I would like to conclude this message with a reminder that 2017 was with disabilities, with by no means an easy year. In fact, it was a tough time, and we have milestones such as had to bring out the best in us to deliver a strong performance. We the “Great Teachers” are confident that we can perform just as strongly in 2018. At the award ceremony, which Group, we have a leading model that adapts swiftly to change, and drew record beating our commitment to quality has proved to be the right call. We face attendance new challenges every day. But I am fully confident that, whatever the challenge may be, we shall rise to it, because it’s in our DNA.. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 11 | 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2017 has been a tough year, but in the end we put in a very strong performance. Admittedly, the advertising market did not behave as expected, and new consumption patterns, coupled with the ongoing influx of new operators, compel us to redouble our efforts to compete from our leadership position for our audiences’ leisure time. But it is equally true that Atresmedia ended the year with record revenue and higher profits than the previous year. We have had to face many challenges and uncertainty continues to prevail over certainty: and yet we are aware of our strengths, which are considerable. One of those strengths is our Organisation’s ability to embrace change, rather than remain paralysed by Silvio González the fear of change. In 2017, our Company proved that it is a highly dynamic market player. We successfully opened up new lines of business and reinforced and adapted existing divisions with innovative new ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 12 | measures. Moreover, our way of doing business, which is recognised In 2017 we proved by and recognisable to our stakeholders, is still the best possible that ours is a highly defence in the face of a swiftly changing media landscape. dynamic Company by opening up new We were the first to understand – and to understand more accurately lines of business and than our competitors – that the focus of our business must be our strengthening existing content. We proved able to break resistance to change so as to ones become Spain’s leading content factory. We create quality brands, brought into being by the best professionals and bringing together both prestige and audience ratings. The useful life of our content goes beyond conventional linear broadcasting, and includes third parties in the value chain. The emergence of Atresmedia Studios, which was founded to create, design and produce for other operators, is therefore the natural consequence of a horizontal strategy that cuts across the Company and places us at the forefront of the industry. That same strategy has enabled us to acquire 50 million subscriber households around the world via our international channels and to become a leading player in the main markets with our fiction series. And, on the strength of our high-quality offering and our consistent commitment to always provide the best product, even in the awareness that results might not be immediately forthcoming, in 2017 Atresmedia tasted success in its news and current affairs programming, and thus enhanced its influence in wider society. To be influential and become a benchmark source of news on the topics that the public is genuinely concerned with is a wonderfully valuable attribute that sets us apart from new operators and buttresses our leadership position. The plural and diverse nature of our Group, our professionalism, our ability to respond swiftly and our consistent willingness to serve the public, unsullied by short-term tactics or gimmicks, clearly shone forth last year, which was a period laden with crucial events. Atresmedia Radio and Atresmedia Televisión led their respective fields in meeting the needs of society, making our brand an undisputed benchmark for news and current affairs. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 13 | Another factor in our excellent performance in 2017 was our ongoing commitment to innovation. Innovation runs through each and every one of our activities, and springs directly from our refusal to conform We were the first to or to rest on our laurels. In addition to Atresmedia Studios which in undestand that the record time closed crucial deals, soon to be followed by still more focus of our business the Company set in motion a start-up incubator in partnership with must be our content. Boomerang to create new entertainment formats. In the radio division, We proved able to despite the maturity and robustly entrenched nature of the market, we break resistance to continue to tweak our offering to further enhance what we believe is change so as to become already the best proposal out there. Our offering is at the forefront of Spain’s leading content 21st-century radio in terms of both content and broadcasting technology. factory In the online division, we beefed up our position by acquiring Smartclip Latam, while we continue to optimise our multiplatform distribution policy with product and functionality improvements. All these factors enabled us to raise revenue by 3.0% in the year, to 1.05 billion euros. As I said earlier, this is the highest revenue figure in the Company’s entire history. Our management model seeks out the highest standards of effectiveness and profitability. We achieved EBITDA of 202.1 million euros, with an EBITDA margin of 19.2%, and net profit of 142.1 million euros, 10.0% more than in 2016. A key factors in achieving these figures was the strong performance of our commercial division, Atresmedia Publicidad. Our advertising people have shown our clients that we provide the best setting for communications about their products. Their excellent work is reflected in our power ratio – market share to viewership share – which at 1.6 is the highest of any television advertising marketer. Following our philosophy of customer focus, innovation, effectiveness and profitability, Atresmedia was again the leading multimedia advertising marketer in Spain, with a 19% share of the total spend in conventional media. Atresmedia Televisión has strengthened the lead of its television model. Atresmedia’s television division is still living proof that quality, innovative and broadly based television is appreciated and rewarded by the general public. High viewership is compatible with prestige: we have become one of the game-changers in Spain’s audiovisual industry, as against other operators who merely farm out their licences. Atresmedia Televisión’s six channels proved the strongest in withstanding the onrush of fragmentation and the shift in consumption trends, thus reaffirming the success of their model and their commercial appeal. I would like to highlight that, propelled by its two flagship channels, Antena 3 and laSexta, Atresmedia Televisión ended 2017 with an audience share of 26.6%, and in leading the commercial target audience —we are the most highly valued showcase for advertisers in the ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 14 | 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER two main day parts, prime-time and early fringe. The year has been Atresmedia Televisión intense from a news standpoint, the Catalan independence process reinforced the leadership being an especially hot issue. These events were covered by a major of its television model, media deployment that was rewarded by growth in news and current based on high quality, a affairs programmes. Antena 3 news programmes were the only diversity of viewpoints private television offering to grow, achieving an average rating of and innovation: all six of 12.6% across all editions, while laSexta news achieved the second its channels reaffirmed best rating result of its history, at 9.9%. Espejo público reached a their success and market new annual high with a share of 17.7%, while Al rojo vivo, with 12.3%, strength, and received cemented its leadership as the news programme with the biggest the applause of the following in its time slot. These figures show that our strategic bid public to provide high-quality news and current affairs content was the right move. Antena 3, which finished the year with an average audience share of 12.3%, was the preferred channel for the commercial viewership in prime time (13.9%). It ended the year as the absolute leader in audience share for morning shows (12.9%) and weekend programming (11.4%). In addition, it achieved the year’s mostviewed broadcast, most-viewed series, most-viewed film and most-viewed programme. laSexta, for its part, ended 2017 in a strengthened position as the third-biggest private TV channel by audience share at 6.8%, and for the fifth year running it again outstripped its direct competitor, this time by the largest difference ever recorded between the two channels (+0.6). laSexta also took the lead in commercial target (7.4%), and widened its edge in the prime-time slot (7.1%). Our four new-generation special-interest channels continued to reinforce their successful programming ranges, taking the lead in their respective targets. Neox, with 2.5%, retained its 2016 share and its place as the second most widely viewed special-interest channel. Nova, with 2.2%, also retained last year’s share and was the leading women’s special-interest channel in the commercial time slot. The men’s special-interest channel Mega, for its part, held onto its share of 1.8%. Atreseries, our youngest HD channel, has been positioned since its launch as the leading new concession special-interest channel, and increased its average audience share to 1.1% –HD televisions are still not as widespread as conventional devices. In 2017 Atresmedia Radio continued to reinforce its radio programming, based on diversity, professionalism and quality throughout the day. We announced that Jaime Cantizano will be Atresmedia Radio joining the weekend morning show at Onda Cero. As a result, our continued to reinforce radio division attracted four million listeners across our three stations. its range of voices and We continue to work every day to make the most of our potential. promoted internal This includes internal talent promotion thanks to our amazing team talent, ending 2017 with of professionals, who, like Carlos Alsina and Juan Ramón Lucas, four million listeners. attract increased audiences every season, thus proving that we Onda Cero increased its make the right choices. The Group’s general-interest station, Onda audience share yet again, Cero, increased its audience to two million listeners and retained its achieving two million position as the third-largest broadcaster in its segment. The Estudio listeners and proving that General de Medios (EGM, Spain’s leading audience measurement we have made the right survey) showed that Onda Cero was the only general-interest radio decisions station to grow in the past two consecutive survey waves and ended 2017 with growth of 3%, twice the rate seen in the wider market. This is the outcome of a firmly established brand name and an attractive ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 15 | programming offer. Europa FM and Melodía FM held onto their strong positions, the former as a leading pop music station with 1.8 Atresmedia further million listeners and the second growing to an audience of 300,000 cemented our position and equalling its second-best ever figure. as the leading audiovisual group on Atresmedia was again the leading audiovisual group on the Internet in the Internet, placing 2017, a place it has held since 2015. The Group’s online division ended among the top ten most the year with an average of 27 million unique users a month, 12% more visited properties in than in 2016, and placed among the top 10 most visited properties Spain, according to in Spain according to Comscore. Atresplayer, our main non-linear Comscore content distribution window, attracted more than 4.2 million users, thus living up to its key role in the Company’s multiplatform strategy. That role will be reinforced in 2018 with a key update. Atresmedia Diversificación continued to seek new avenues for growth that are not dependent on the conventional advertising market. With our three international channels – Antena 3 Internacional, Atreseries and ¡HOLA! TV, joined in 2018 by AtresCine – we have retained our foothold as the private European operator with the most channels and subscribers overseas: over 50 million households subscribe to us. Moreover, in 2017 we continued to support entrepreneurship through our “Media for Equity” model for investing in start-ups, which we financed to a value of more than 80 million euros. With 10 investee companies, Atresmedia is already a relevant player in the venture capital sector in Spain. Our film division, Atresmedia Cine, became Spain’s leading film production firm. We released nine titles in 2017, and accounted for 30% of box office takings by Spanish films over the year. The law places us under a duty to take part in Spanish film production by means of a minimum “investment share”. Although we are uncomfortable with the fact that this duty is an imposition, we also view it as an opportunity to open up a new business pathway that cleaves to the standards of quality which the Group practises across all its divisions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 16 | 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER One of the Group’s business activities, Atresmedia Formación, Atresmedia’s four created to train the future professionals of audiovisual media, has international channels – successfully integrated its concern for education with financial Antena 3 Internacional, viability, by means of a training catalogue of more than 400 courses ‘¡HOLA! TV, Atreseries that are recognised both in Spain and overseas. and Atrescine – buttressed our position For yet another year, Atresmedia has delivered on its commitment as the European private to responsible business practices and support for positive change in operator with the most wider society. In 2017, therefore, the Company adopted its second channels and the largest corporate responsibility master plan, which will provide a structure number of subscribers: for all actions in this domain for the next three years, enabling us to 50 million connected continue to mainstream corporate responsibility activities throughout households all the Company’s strategic areas and corporate culture. One of the factors identified in the Master Plan is our Company’s contribution to and impact on the wider community, as part of our Organisation’s commitment of the past decade. Throughout 2017 we reinforced the Compromiso Atresmedia, the initiative that brings together all the Group’s corporate responsibility campaigns (Ponle Freno, Objetivo Bienestar, Constantes y Vitales, Hazte Eco, Crea Cultura and Tolerancia Cero): our range of actions go beyond merely raising awareness and achieve real changes in society. Our outward-facing efforts are reflected internally among Atresmedia’s employees, through our initiatives to train our people in road safety and healthy lifestyle choices. In addition, our professionals have dedicated some of their time to working with charities and NGOs through the Corporate Volunteering Programme, which in 2017 completed its first decade, and to Project Th’nk, which supports Group employees’ entrepreneurial ideas: its first year of activity involved a number of initiatives to encourage innovation within the firm. Fundación Atresmedia continued to provide support to hospitalised children, help teach people with disabilities about the audiovisual industry so they can find work, and champion major initiatives for better education, such as ‘Great Teachers’ and ‘Discover Vocational Training’. In 2017, for the sixth year in a row, it led the corporate foundation transparency ranking. Alongside its work for the broader community, the Group has focused Our Group is on the environment and sustainability, increasing investment in this continuosly betting respect and cutting down on the emissions from our premises. The for a more responsible Group also joined the Environment Cluster hosted by Forética, the business management leading corporate responsibility forum in Spain. and for a strong support to a positive change in I would also like to highlight the #companies4SDG campaign, the society. That is why which raises awareness of and calls for action on the United Nations in 2017 we reinforced Sustainable Development Goals, to which Atresmedia is strongly all the Organisation’s committed. corportate responsibility So 2017, despite difficulties and challenges, was an excellent year activities through the for the achievement of our aims. It wasn’t easy, but yet again we initiative Compromiso outperformed the goals we had set ourselves. We are still a leading Atresmedia company in terms of both business and our role in the community, thanks to our strategy and our diverse, high-quality model. Our ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2. MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 17 | understanding of the business leads to tangible results, and is perceived positively by the market and society as a whole. We have a clear strategy and are not scared of change. For us, 2017 now lies in the past. Our Organisation will continue to be put to the test throughout 2018. But I am confident that, with our professionals and the support of the Board and shareholders, we shall again achieve all our goals. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 18 | 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE FINANCIAL RESULTS € 1,052 M 983.97 68.11 Revenue Advertising Other revenue Historic high (+2.2% 2016) (+16.36% 2016) (+3% vs 2016) € 202.14 M € 142.11 M Gross Operating Profit Net Profit (+0.1% vs 2016) (+10% vs 2016) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual General Meeting AGM: 19/04/2017 Board of Directors 10 meetings in 2017 30.76% women 30.76% independent directors Executive Appointments Audit and Committee and Remuneration Control 10 meetings Committee Committee 33.33% exec. 4 meetings 6 meetings 60% indep. 60% indep. HUMAN TEAM Atresmedia Corporación 446 Atresmedia Radio 557 Atresmedia Publicidad 429 Antena 3 Noticias 327 Atresmedia Digital 131 Atresmedia Cine Fundación Atresmedia 11 10 2,089 employees I3TV 57 (+3.31% vs 2016) 50.45% 49.55% Uniprex TV 121 Women Men ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE | 19 | STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Retain and Leverage Build a Lead the digital expand our our content diversified and transformation of tv and radio generation comprehensive our industry business capability business ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 20 | 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE 2017 ACTIVITIES Atresmedia Televisión Atresmedia TV remained the first choice for news coverage in 2017, ending the year with an audience of 26.6% and leading the way in prime time and afternoon viewing. Antena 3 and laSexta were, for the fourth straight year, the favourite channels of Spanish viewers and had the best rated hosts: Atresmedia had 11 of the 15 highest rated presenters and opinion leaders, according to the TV Perception Study released by Personality Media. It was also viewed by the public as the most reputable and trustworthy audiovisual media group, according to the RepTrak Antena 3 España 2017 Studio prepared by consulting firm Reputation Institute. Antena 3 leads the commercial target The Series Atresmedia brand once audience in the mornings and at weekends, again showed its credentials when reporting the year’s most viewed broadcast, it comes to Spanish fiction, earning series, premières and daily programme, with critical praise and proving hugely an average audience of 12.3% in 2017. popular among audiences. Moreover, shored up its international reach, with Antena 3 Noticias was the only privatelyhits like ‘La casa de papel’, the most owned news programme to report gains. widely acclaimed series abroad in the history of Spanish TV. Its afternoon slot from Monday to Sunday was the leading news programme among the Atresmedia TV (19,5%), Antena 3 commercial offerings. (11,6%) and Nova (2,9%) were the group, the channel and the thematic channel leaders in non linear audience in 2017. laSexta laSexta again topped the rankings, 6.8% clear of its nearest rival for the fifth straight year and managing to extend the gap between the two by a record +0.6 during the year. It beat its rival in the daytime, afternoon, evening, prime time and commercial audience segments. It has cemented is status as a leading news and current affairs channel: in October it reported its highest ever monthly share (9.1%) and its best daily performance (17.5%) thanks to its special episode of Al rojo vivo: El Objetivo, which earned 28.1%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE | 21 | Neox Youth channel Neox (2.5%) reported its best ever afternoon figures (2.5%), while also matching its best ever prime time showing (2.6%). Nova Nova (2.2%) was again the leading female lifestyle channel in the 09:0002:30 slot and in prime time (2.1%), matching its performance in 2016. Mega Mega was the leading channel for male audiences in 2017, equalling its best ever yearly result (1,8%). Meanwhile, El chiringuito de Jugones recorded its best year since its first aired (4.6% and 245,000 viewers). Atreseries Atreseries, with a 1.1% share, reported its best ever performance and was the leading new specialty channel. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 22 | 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE ACTIVIDAD 2017 Atresmedia Radio With some 4 million listeners, Atresmedia Radio is widely known for its integrity, pluralistic and down-to-earth approach and entertainment value. Onda Cero Only generalist station to have grown in the last two phases of the EGM survey, with close to two million listeners. Europa fm Leading music station with 1.8 million listeners, Europa FM has now added David Guetta to its roster, one of the world’s most influential DJs. Melodía fm With its fresh approach to music, the station matched its second best figures with over 300,000 listeners. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE | 23 | Atresmedia Publicidad Atresmedia Publicidad became once again the advertising exclusivist with the highest share of the market, around 20%, boasting the highest power ratios across all its markets. The acquisition of Smartclip Latam has made Atresmedia the leading domestic operator in the digital advertising market by strengthening its grip of the market. Atresmedia Digital Atresmedia’s websites reported a monthly average of 27.1 million unique visitor users in 2017 (+12% on 2016). According to Comscore, Atresmedia ranks within the top 10 most visited names in Spain, reflecting its status as a leading online audiovisual group. Atresplayer reported more than 4.2 million users, cementing its status as a premium video platform in 2017. Atresmedia Diversificación Atresmedia Cine Atresmedia Internacional consolidated its position as the private European operator with the most channels and Atresmedia became the leading film subscribers outside Spain, with over production company by releasing a number of 50 million paying households using new films, five of which ranked within the top its three channels. ten in box office sales. Atresmedia Studios Atresmedia Studios was created as a pioneering project to leverage the Group’s brand name and prestige in fiction, adapting to new consumption patterns among viewers thanks to production for new platforms. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 24 | 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE Atresmedia’s contribution to stakeholders In 2017, Atresmedia showed its commitment to corporate social responsibility by approving its new 2018-2020 Master Plan, which will tie in closely with how the Company is managed and run and shape its relations with stakeholders. Atresmedia offers its shareholders a healthy return and unrivalled transparency € 0.63 € 0.92 800 earnings per share dividend/share contacts with the (€ 0.57 in 2016) (€ 0.47 in 2016) financial community (700 in 2016) Atresmedia offers advertisers a healthy return, plus unrivalled innovation and impact 1.56 52.2% advertising cost-to-income ratio of advertisers rely on (1.52 in 2016) multi-channel advertising (51.9% in 2016) Atresmedia’s supports its employees by offering quality employment, diversity, equal opportunities and professional development 79.22% 50.45% 41 h permanent contracts women of training per employee (76.5% in 2016) (49.5% in 2016) (22.1 h in 2016) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. THE YEAR AT A GLANCE | 25 | Atresmedia’s contributes to society by supporting and raising awareness of social issues, child protection and accessibility € 12,821,875 211 37,286 h opportunity cost in advertising employees involved subtitled for non-profit entities in corporate volunteering (36,156 in 2016) (11,968,757 in 2016) (209 in 2016) COMPROMISO ATRESMEDIA 8 13,033 72 h campaigns showings (66 in 2016) 0 breaches of the Self-Regulation Code (9,952 in 2016) of Child-Oriented Television Content by Atresmedia FUNDACIÓN ATRESMEDIA € 1.31 M budget (1.27 in 2016) Atresmedia’s commitment to the environment focuses on raising awareness while minimising the environmental impact of its business € 140,082 25,275 kg 7,322 tCO2 in environmental of plain paper consumed total equivalent investment (26,813 in 2016) GHG emissions (€ 120,495 in 2016) (9,134 in 2016) Atresmedia offers its suppliers equal treatment, non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion 54% € 60.85 M€ of the 215 service and product proposals in purchasing related to Spanish companies (€ 59.49 M in 2016) (49% of 200 in 2016) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 27 | 4. ABOUT US 4.1. Group overview Atresmedia Corporación is the leading communications group in Spain. It brings together a range of companies that engage in a number of fields, with a focus on audiovisual media. All Group companies share values that help guide them towards fulfilling their mission and vision, based on four key elements: quality, professionalism, viewpoint diversity and confidence in the industry. 4.1.1. Mission, vision and values Our us MISSION is VALUES To offer quality news and Commitment: we strive to make a valuable contribution entertainment that is to society by creating social awareness campaigns to help innovative and tailored to overcome problems and generate positive change. our stakeholders, allowing us to earn their trust while Quality: we continuously improve our business by ensuring the Group’s developing products that are exceptional in both design and ongoing leadership and content and tailored to the needs and expectations of our future sustainability. audiences. Creativity: we encourage our employees to be creative and allow them artistic freedom and freedom of thought while respecting the democratic and cultural values of society. Long-term vision: we are working to make our Our company a leader within the audiovisual sector by VISION is embracing the future and what it has to offer. Innovation: we work towards new ideas, products, To become the benchmark services and practices that provide value for the Company multimedia group by and society. making a valuable and Leadership: we motivate and steer our collaborators to positive contribution to ensure we both develop and grow. We convey energy and the society in which we inspire trust in helping the Company achieve its business operate. objectives. Team work: we foster a culture rooted in trust and respect between employees and the Company. We encourage their autonomy and involvement in the Company’s future by granting them decision-making authority and responsibility. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 28 | 4. ABOUT US 4.1.2. Subsidiaries (GRI 102-45) Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, trading under the name Grupo Atresmedia, is a parent company that owns a group of 13 subsidiaries, most of which are wholly owned, as shown in the following diagram: Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. Antena 3 Multimedia, Antena 3 Noticias, S.L.U. Atres Hub Factory, S.L. S.L.U. (100%) (100%) (50%) Atresmedia Cine, S.L.U. Atresmedia Foto, S.L.U. Atresmedia Música, (100%) (100%) S.L.U. (100%) Atresmedia Studios, Música Aparte, S.A.U. Flooxplay, S.L.U. (100%) S.L.U. (100%) (100%) Hola Televisión América, Atres Advertising, S.L.U. I3 Televisión, S.L. (50%) S.L. (50%) (100%) Uniprex, S.A.U. (100%) Hola TV Latam, S.L.U. Aunia Publicidad (100%) Interactiva, S.L. (50%) Hola TV US, Llc. Smart Clip Latam (100%) (94,82%) Canal Media Radio, S.A.U. (100%) Smart Clip Hispania (100%) Antena 3 Televisión Digital Terrestre de Canarias, S.A.U. Smart Clip Comuniçao (100%) Ltd. (75,84%) Mitjans de Cataluña, S.L. (16,67%) Lemac Gestión, S.L. Smart Clip Mexico (16,67%) Uniprex Televisión, SAPI de CV (99,99%)* S.L.U. (100%) Uniprex Televisión Digital Terrestre de Uniprex Valencia TV. Andalucía, S.L. (74%) S.L.U. (100%) * Atres Advertising, S.L.U. has a stake in Smartclip México of 0.0005%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4. ABOUT US | 29 | 4.1.3. Management team D. Silvio González Dña. Patricia Pérez D. Antonio Manso D. Manuel de la Viuda Chief Executive Officer Corporate General Manager Chief Financial Officer Head of Legal Affairs Atresmedia Digital General Manager D. Miguel Langle D. Fernando Costi D. Ignacio Mata D. Arturo Larraínzar Head of Regulatory Affairs Head of Audit Head of Communication Head of Strategy and Institutional Relations and Process Control Atresmedia Televisión Atresmedia Radio Atresmedia Publicidad Atresmedia Publicidad D. Javier Bardají D. Ramón Osorio D. Eduardo Olano D. José Miguel García General Manager General Manager Chairman General Manager Atresmedia Diversificación Atresmedia Cine Fundación Atresmedia Atresmedia Studios D. Javier Nuche D. Mikel Lejarza Dña. Carmen Bieger D. Ignacio Corrales General Manager Chairman General Manager General Manager ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 30 | 4. ABOUT US 4.1.4. Ownership structure Atresmedia is a listed company that currently displays the following shareholder structure: • Major shareholders represented on the Board: Grupo Planeta de Agostini and RTL Group: controlling a total of 60.35% of share capital. Grupo Imagina owns 4.23% of share capital. • Treasury shares: 0.35% • Free float (exchange-traded share capital): approximately 35%1. ATRESMEDIA GROUP (100%) Grupo Planeta Free RTL Imagina Treasury DeAgostini Float Group Group shares (41.70%) (35%) (18.65%) (4.23%) (0.35%) In Spain Abroad* DISTRIBUTION OF SHARE CAPITAL (60.58%) (39.42%) DISTRIBUTION AMONG Spanish shareholders Foreign investors SHAREHOLDERS (98.71%) (1.29%) * Stake > 1%: Germany, Belgium, United Kingdom, United States, Luxembourg, France Most of our shareholders are small investors. 98.0% of Spanish shareholders and 93.3% of foreign shareholders hold 1 to 1,000 shares; these positions combined account for only 4% of total share capital traded on the exchange. Note 1 Source: information obtained from the Company's register of shareholders. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4. ABOUT US | 31 | The shareholders owning a material proportion of share capital are: Accionista Actividad Representación Consejo The group emerged from a strategic alliance between the Planeta Group and De Agostini. Its goal is to entrench its leadership in publishing, explore new economic sectors and, in particular, to become a major player in audiovisual media. Grupo Planeta leads the editorial market in Spain and Latin America, is the second player in the French market and Mauricio Casals Aldama, Marco Planeta De is among the top ten players in Drago and José Manuel Lara Agostini Group (1) the world. Is also leader in private García (2). training in the Spanish market with more than 100,000 pupils in 88 countries. DeAgostini develops its activities in the editorial market, in the production and distribution of audiovisual content, as well as the financial and the gaming sectors. DeAgostini counts with a solid internationalization and diversification strategy. Boasting 16 television channels and 31 radio stations in 12 countries, RTL is the European leader in the entertainment market. Headquartered in Luxembourg, the company has RTL Group (3) Elmar Heggen and Nicolas de radio and television interests in Tavernost. Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Spain, Hungary, Croatia and Southeast Asia. The company’s shares are listed on the Frankfurt, Brussels and Luxembourg exchanges. The Imagina Group, has a worldwide presence and leads Imagina Group (4) the market in audiovisual content Josep María Benet Ferrán and sports event production and distribution. (1) Grupo Planeta de Agostini, S.L. has an ownership interest through its wholly owned subsidiary GRUPO PASA CARTERA, S.A.U. (2) The chairman, José Creuheras Margenat, is a proprietary executive director appointed at the proposal of the Planeta De Agostini Group. Pursuant to Article 529 duodecies (1) of the Spanish Companies Act, he qualifies as an executive director. (3) RTL Group, S.A. (controlled by Bertelsmann, A.G.) has an ownership interest through UFA FILM UND FERNSEH GMBH, which is the direct shareholder of Atresmedia Corporación. (4) Imagina Media Audiovisual, S.L. holds stakes in Atresmedia Corporación both directly and indirectly through its subsidiary Mediaproducción, S.L.U. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 33 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.1. Our business environment In 2017 the macroeconomic environment in which Atresmedia operates was favourable: GDP grew 3.1% according to FUNCAS data, and growth is expected to hold up in 2018 at a rate of 2.6%. Although the economy is now on a firmly established trend of recovery, in 2017 the European advertising market grew by only 0.03%. This was largely because leading consumer goods companies – which historically are advertising-intensive – cut their marketing budgets across the board. However, free-to-air television in Spain benefited from an increase in advertising spend of 1% with respect to 2016, reaching 1.93 billion euros1. Consumption patterns across global society are changing at a dizzying rate, trending towards increased consumption on platforms that provide an alternative to conventional television as we know it. OTT platforms, which send content to a range of different devices over the Internet, herald non-linear television consumption, especially among younger audiences. Yet, despite the rise of new platforms, there is still a wide gap between them and linear television consumption: out of the average 4 hours and 25 minutes of audiovisual content that a person consumes (online video, OTT platforms and linear television), 85% of that time is devoted to linear television. Given this, we need to think about how technological development is providing the audiovisual industry with a key edge. First, technology opens up a new online channel for content distribution where – alongside many other active platforms – Atresmedia is playing a central role. Secondly, technology supports direct communication with the viewer and getting to know their expectations, which lets us personalise content and advertising. To rise to the challenge of the technological revolution, the media need to develop the capabilities required to bolster their business. In 2017, Atresmedia acquired Spain’s largest online video advertising marketer. We are now developing a Big Data project and working on a new version of Atresplayer, Atresmedia’s OTT platform. Note 1 SourceInfoadex Spanish Advertising Study 2018 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 34 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Atresmedia operates within an industry that is regulated by the European Union and Spanish legislation. In the regulatory domain, after years of consolidation of the structure of the television market, in 2017 a certain measure of stability has been achieved. One of the challenges to be addressed in future is the allocation of the radio spectrum for television broadcasting. The main laws and regulations affecting Atresmedia’s business are those relating to the radio spectrum, audiovisual media services, intellectual property, and arrangements for payment of royalties to copyright collecting societies. These laws and regulations have undergone the following changes: In 2017 there was adopted Decision (EU) 2017/899 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on Radio spectrum the use of the 470-790 MHz frequency band in the Union. This regulations Decision sets the terms for freeing up the 700 MHz frequency band currently used for broadcasting by a range of TDT channels, not later than 30 June 2020. The European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council are in negotiations to amend Directive 2010/13/EU, the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which sets a range of rights, obligations and limits as to advertising, child protection and Audiovisual media services investment obligations in the course of provision of audiovisual regulations media services. Once the final text is passed in 2018, Spanish law must be adapted to the technological development of audiovisual media operation, video distribution platforms and social media by lending flexibility to some of the current constraints and balancing the rules on the various modes of operation. Spain’s Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport is promoting an amendment to the Ley de Propiedad Intelectual, Spain’s intellectual property statute, to implement Directive 2014/26/ Intellectual property law EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market, and Directive 2017/1564/EU. Effective June 2016 onwards, collecting societies set new general royalty tariffs in accordance with the legislation passed in 2014 Arrangements for payment and 2015. Atresmedia is negotiating intensively with all the of royalties to copyright collecting societies to sign agreements that accommodate the collecting societies new situation in relation to the Group’s radio, television and online businesses. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 35 | Future opportunities Atresmedia dedicates effort and resources to observing and taking part in industry trends and seeking ways to meet the new requirements of advertisers and audiences. We see a future landscape with three key features, which Atresmedia is already preparing for: Growing demand for Globalisation of Applying technology content shown by consumption of to the audiovisual distributors entertainment business Atresmedia firmly The internationalisation Atresmedia aims to believes that its ability of Atresmedia is now improve the way it to generate content very much a reality, distributes content and provides a huge which stands the Group expand the knowledge opportunity for progress in good stead as it moves of its audience through and growth in two areas: forward. available technologies. offering own content Success story: more This has led to an on pay platforms and than 50 million paying enhanced experience producing content subscribers outside Spain among viewers while for third parties that making content broadcast through OTT advertising that much services. more efficient. Success story: launch Success story: Big Data of Atresmedia Studios, project, acquisition a production company of Smartclip Latam offering new content and agreements with while broadcasting Smartclip AG existing shows to satisfy a growing appetite for series among Spanish and foreign viewers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 36 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.2. Material issues To produce this Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report, Atresmedia undertook a materiality analysis involving all of the Group’s internal and external stakeholders. This new analysis updates the research conducted by the Group in previous years and identifies the key issues which the Company’s strategy must hinge upon. 5.2.1. Materiality analysis overview (GRI 102-43) The materiality matrix underpinning the content of this report was constructed in two stages: 1 Atresmedia has analysed the state of the media sector by examining sector-wide reports, future trends, and information on peers. These initial steps are intended to flag relevant issues that are already Qualitative affecting the sector in which Atresmedia operates, or that might do phase so in future. 2 These relevant issues are then ranked and prioritised accordingly, based on their impact on the specific business activities of Atresmedia. This phase had two component parts: Quantitative • Internal: the heads of the key areas and departments of phase Atresmedia were asked to complete a questionnaire on the relevance of the matters detected during the initial phase. • External: all of Atresmedia’s external stakeholders were asked to complete a questionnaire on the relevance of the matters detected during the initial phase. We analysed documents produced by 15 gatekeepers (industry company reports) and processed 62 questionnaire responses from internal stakeholders (executives and employees) and external stakeholders (suppliers, financial community, academic community, etc). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 37 | 5.2.2. Materiality matrix (GRI 102-47) The outcome of the process was the identification of 28 material issues 15 9 for Atresmedia listed in order of 13 17 18 19 significance. Based on those issues, we 6 produced this report, and the Group will 1 20 11 undertake its sustainability activities in 28 2 External relevance 21 7 3 22 5 the coming years. 12 8 4 26 24 16 14 The matrix shows that for both internal 25 and external stakeholders the most 27 significant issues are mainly clustered 23 in the category “Content production 10 and distribution”. Atresmedia regards as Internal relevance significant any issue rated significant by more than 70% of both groups. Domains Topics Integration 1 Management of non-financial topics of Corporate Responsibility 2 Strategic vision of non-financial topics 3 Application of ESG criteria to the supply chain Procurement 4 Cooperation with suppliers and subcontractors 5 Governance and compliance model Good governance 6 Information security 7 Risk management 8 Equality, diversity and work-life balance Human Resources 9 Talent management 10 Dialogue with employees 11 Content diversity and inclusiveness 12 Content accessibility 13 Use of new technologies for content distribution 14 Innovation in content production 15 Independence and rigour Content production 16 Positioning management and distribution 17 Child protection 18 Responsible content 19 Responsible advertising 20 Protection of intellectual property 21 Ethics and responsibility in production and distribution 22 Contribution to the community 23 Support to entrepreneurship 24 Programming on key community issues Contribution and 25 Media and online skills education impact 26 Stakeholder engagement 27 Environmental commitment 28 Raising awareness about care for the environment ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 38 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.2.3. Link between material issues and report content (GRI 102-46) Domain Material issue Atresmedia response Management of non-financial topics Existence of a Corporate Responsibility Policy Integration setting out principles that guide Atresmedia’s of Corporate Strategic vision of non-financial topics activities. Responsibility Existence of a 2018-2020 CR Master Plan. Application of ESG criteria to the CR clauses in contracts with suppliers. supply chain Procurement Cooperation with suppliers and Involvement in charitable initiatives with suppliers subcontractors of goods and services. Compliance with all recommendations of the Good Governance and compliance model Governance Code. Good governance Information security Existence of a cybersecurity plan. Existence of a robust risk and compliance Risk management management system. Equal distribution of staff: 49.55% men and 50.45% Equality, diversity and work-life women. balance Signing of the new collective bargaining agreement. Equality plan. Human Resources Existence of a human resources policy. Talent management Training plan for all employees. Engagement and dialogue with Internal online magazine MD. employees Launch of new corporate intranet. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 39 | Domain Material issue Atresmedia response Codes of ethics of Antena 3 and laSexta news programmes. Content diversity and inclusiveness Code of conduct. Adherence to advertising self-regulation codes. Content accessibility Subtitling of 82.4% of daily broadcasts. Use of new technologies for content Increased expenditure on Atresplayer. distribution Innovation in content production Launch of Atresmedia Studios. Content committees. Editorial committees. Independence and rigour Corporate Responsibility Policy and Responsible Advertising Policy. Monitoring of perception research that places Positioning management Content production Atresmedia as the leading Group by reputation. and distribution Widening of the reinforced protection time band on Neox. Child protection Self-regulation code on television content and child protection. Responsible content Distribution of content benefiting the community. Responsible Advertising Policy. Atresmedia is a member of Autocontrol. Responsible advertising Request for copy advice from advertisers and Autocontrol. Protection of intellectual property Crea Cultura campaign. Codes of ethics of Antena 3 and laSexta news programmes. Ethics and responsibility in production Code of conduct. and distribution Adherence to advertising self-regulation codes. Editorial and content committees. Implementation of 6 campaigns of our own (Ponle Freno, Objetivo Bienestar, Hazte Eco, Crea Contribution to the community Cultura, Constantes y Vitales and Tolerancia Cero). 2,325 hours dedicated to corporate volunteering. Fundación Atresmedia activities. Support to entrepreneurship Media for Equity activities. Donation to non-profits of advertising airtime Programming on key community issues valued at 12,821,875 euros. Implementation of the Mañana project and Contribution and Media and online skills education Atresmedia Formación. impact Active engagement on social media with 43 million followers and direct involvement of 560 people in Stakeholder engagement and dialogue focus groups Multiple communication channels with shareholders, investors, advertisers and audiences. Environmental Policy. Environmental commitment 100% waste recycling. Publication of CDP report. Raising awareness about care for the Hazte Eco campaign. environment ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 40 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.3. Business model and strategy Through its television, radio and online divisions, Atresmedia produces and distributes content that attracts an audience and thus generates advertising airtime marketed by Atresmedia Publicidad among advertisers, who are the Group’s main source of revenue. In addition, Atresmedia is involved in businesses that are not solely dependent on conventional advertising through Atresmedia Diversificación, which encompasses copyright management, our international business, and the Group’s involvement in the venture capital industry. Lastly, Atresmedia complies with its statutory obligations under the Spanish Audiovisual Act, Ley General Audiovisual, through its producer, Atresmedia Cine. Atresmedia is the audiovisual group with the strongest reputation according to Estudio RepTrak España 2017, a research paper published by the consultancy firm Reputation Institute. ADVERTISERS PRODUCERS AND SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES Investment in DISTRIBUTORS Goods and AND INVESTORS Productivity, advertising Content and services Capital performance distribution ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD TELEVISIÓN CINE DIVERSIFICACIÓN ADVERTISERS ATRESMEDIA FILM NEW MARKETS Selling advertising RADIO MANAGEMENT/ Licenses, rights, time. ATRESMEDIA INDUSTRY acquiring stakes DIGITAL Legal compliance in start-ups, when producing film international AUDIENCE content. presence. Content production and broadcasting. Television channels, Radio stations, Native digital platforms, Temáticos&Partners. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 41 | The bulk of Atresmedia’s revenue comes from advertising (94% in 2017), and the rest from sources such as content sales, film production, online income and copyright royalties. Copyrights 1% Film production 1% Advertising 94% Special radio actions 1% Commercial fees 2% Internet 1% Other sales 0% 5.3.1. Strategy and description of priorities In 2015, in partnership with all the Atresmedia business areas, the Strategy Department designed a corporate Strategic Plan for 2017, based on a set of strategic priorities and goals that are to be assessed and updated annually. In this section we discuss Atresmedia’s strategic priorities and the Group’s goals, and the KPIs that help us evaluate the extent to which we achieve them. Throughout this report we insert references to our goals when describing the initiatives now in motion that help us to achieve them. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 42 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? RETAIN AND EXPAND OUR TV AND RADIO BUSINESS Strategic goal Assessment KPIs 2016 2017 a) TV audience share 27.10% 26.6% O 1. Offer attractive content for b) Expenditure share 42.10% 41.40% audiences and advertisers O 2. Leverage our unique multimedia c) Power ratio 1.55 1.56 positioning to make broad d) Atresmedia cost/average GRP coverage the Group’s key edge ND 5% over time O 3. Preserve and curate the television ecosystem as a preferred e) Atresmedia Radio audience share 16.7% 16.2% environment for brands O 4. Retain our competitive position in f) Atresmedia Radio expenditure the radio market 18% 18% share g) Revenue per listener (€ ‘000) 19.8 20.81 LEVERAGE OUR CONTENT GENERATION CAPABILITY Strategic goal Assessment KPIs 2016 2017 O 5. Implement a distribution strategy that maximises the value of our h) % own production / total content over the long term 64.00% 64.0% programming O 6. Develop and enhance proprietary distribution environments to compete with the other platforms O 7. Leverage current demand for premium content by producing i) Hours of content, own production ND 6,725.00 for third parties BUILD A DIVERSIFIED AND COMPREHENSIVE BUSINESS Strategic goal Assessment KPIs 2016 2017 j) % non tv and radio advertising 8.00% 9.00% revenue O 8. Develop a comprehensive k) % international revenue 1.89% 2.62% Atresmedia content business O 9. Build up our international l) Number of subscribers to 45 50 presence in the online advertising Atresmedia channels sector O 10. Leverage our Media for Equity m) Number of territories reached activities to enter markets that through Atresmedia content ND >100 complement our core business sales n) Number of Media for Equity 10 14 investees ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 43 | LEAD THE DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF OUR INDUSTRY Strategic goal Assessment KPIs 2016 2017 O 11. Bolster our competitive position o) Average unique users, Group total 12 16 in the online market in Spain O 12. Lead the convergence between online advertising p) Page views, Group total 112 134 and conventional television advertising 5.3.2. Activity overview 5.3.2.1. Television Atresmedia Televisión’s vision is to provide a diverse, innovative and high-quality range of news and entertainment which, by becoming our viewers’ first choice, will offer the value that advertisers want. To achieve this goal, Atresmedia designs its programming in keeping with the values of quality, innovation and diversity of viewpoints. Atresmedia Televisión accounts for 87% (89% in 2016) of the Group’s overall revenue (chiefly from advertising), and operates six different channels): the general-interest channels Antena 3 and laSexta; and the special-interest channels Neox (children), Nova (women), Mega (men) and Atreseries (fiction series). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 44 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Atresmedia Televisión’s activities are based on a range of principles that guide both content production and broadcasting: WHAT DOES ATRESMEDIA’S TELEVISION PROGRAMMING HAVE TO ACHIEVE? HOW DOES IT ACHIEVE IT? Atresmedia operates a range of internal mechanisms that monitor the quality, ethics and responsibility of the content we produce and Design content that broadcast. (Further information at Quality and Ethics management). responds to community Atresmedia, in partnership with leading research institutions in the interests and ensure that industry, conducts research so as to keep its television offering close to content is interesting and societal concerns and address the topics that are most relevant to the high-quality community. (Further information at Corporate social responsibility). In 2017, we formed 70 focus groups, involving 560 people. Protect vulnerable Atresmedia ensures that children are protected by complying with audiences, especially prevailing laws and regulations and implementing specific selfchildren regulation mechanisms. (Further information at Child protection). One of Atresmedia’s priorities is to enhance and facilitate access to Promote audiovisual audiovisual content by everyone, regardless of their hearing or visual content accessibility capabilities (Further information at Accessibility). Atresmedia is aware of the media’s influence on public opinion, and therefore carries out a range of community activities to enhance familiarity with how the industry works. Moreover, Atresmedia knows Bring the media close to that as a communication group it plays a privileged role in raising community concerns awareness and providing content with an impact on the community; we believe this is part of our contribution to society. (Further information at Awareness campaigns). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 45 | Audience shares in 2017 In 2017, Atresmedia continued to deploy a television model that focuses on six distinct approaches, and we again placed as the leading communications group in prime-time in commercial target, the most attractive slot for advertisers. Antena 3, laSexta and the thematic channels’ offer is proving the best at withstanding a scenario of increasing atomisation and ever more widespread use of new forms of audiovisual consumption. Audience perception surveys show that Atresmedia Televisión projects an image of being the most diverse group in terms of content and styles as a result of the Group’s bid to preserve the independence and viewpoint diversity of its different channels. Antena 3 started 2017 laSexta (6.8%) also ended in the lead (13.3% in the year with strong January) and ended the results: it achieved the year with an average best month of its history viewership share of 12.3%; (9.1% in October), again it is the unbeaten leader outperformed Cuatro for in the morning (12.9%) the fifth straight year, and weekend (11.4%) and outstripped its rival time slots. The channel even in the commercial was strongly successful target (7.4%). Atresmedia’s specialin 2017 in all the genres interest channels, Neox where it competes, (2.5%), Nova (2.2%), having scored the mostMega (1.85%) and viewed broadcast, series, Atreseries (1.1%) were film and daily programme again in the lead for their of the year. respective advertising target audiences. Atresmedia’s presenters were again the highest rated: 11 out of 15 of the highest-rated influencers belonged to the Atresmedia Group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 46 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Milestones in 2017 O 1.: Appealing content O 3.: Ensuring that TV remains the chosen environment for brands Benchmark in news and current affairs: viewing figures for news programmes and the Group’s extensive coverage of major events have made Atresmedia a firm audience favourite when keeping up with the latest news through Antena 3 Noticias (only private news outlet to have reported growth), as well as laSexta Noticias (achieved its second best ever showing , 9.9%)and has now been outpacing channel Cuatro for six straight years) and current affairs programmes. Entertainment: Antena 3 continues to broadcast the most viewed daily programme on television, namely El hormiguero 3.0, and continues succeeding with entertainment shows such as Tu cara me suena and Tu cara no me suena todavía , which was the most watched premiere of the year. Meanwhile, laSexta has diversified its content by adding new products that will continue throughout 2018: La isla and Dónde estabas entonces. Leading the way in fiction: the Series Atresmedia brand has confirmed its leading status when it comes to Spanish fiction, earning considerable critical and public acclaim through successful comedy series Allí Abajo and other releases, all of which have been warmly received by the public. La casa de papel , an original fiction of impeccable workmanship became the year’s most successful première, with 4,090,000 viewers tuning in (25.1%). As well as on prime time, fiction series are generally well positioned within the afternoon and evening slot with Amar es para Siempre, leader in the afternoon, and El secreto de Puente Viejo that has aired the most episodes in the history of Spanish television when it comes to fictional series, with 1.4 million spectators and a 14.4% market share.Foreign fiction shows broadcast by Atresmedia attracts the biggest viewing audiences in Spain and its container Multicine remains the undisputed leader for weekend afternoon viewing. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 47 | O 1.: Appealing content O 3.: Ensuring that TV remains the chosen environment for brands Effectiveness and synergy of content: Atresmedia’s second generation channels have once again been hugely effective and synergistic in what is becoming an increasingly fragmented market. All of them have been leaders of their segments. Interest in Sports: The broadcasting of the Champions League was an absolute success in terms of audience share and reached its highest level, 46,1%, in the extra time of the Real Madrid – Bayern football match. Other sports programmes achieved great results such as El Chiringuito de Jugones, that reached 4,6% audience share in Mega. O 5.: Maximising content value through distribution O 8.: Global own content business Diversifying target audiences and genres (premières): the Company’s two generalist channels have been showing new content and subject matter in a bid to reach a broader base of the population. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 48 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Antena 3 (11.6%): Leader in Commercial Target in prime-time, and morning and weekend TV, while scoring the most-viewed broadcasts of 2017 Broadcast Thousands Share Extra time, Real MadridBayern Munich. Most-viewed broadcast in 2017 9,373,000 46.1 Allí abajo. Most-viewed fiction in 2017 3,134,000 19.9 El Hormiguero 3.0. Most-viewed daily programme, reaching annual historical high 2,707,000 15 Tu cara me suena. Absolute leader 2,607,000 19.8 Tu cara no me suena todavía. Best entertainment premiere of the year 2,392,000 18.7 Tiempos de Guerra. Leader in its outcome 2,304,000 15.5 La casa de pape. Best premiere of the year of all the TV channels 2,271,000 14.4 Pulsaciones. First leader premiere in fiction of 2017 2,116,000 13 Ninja Warrior. Leader in Friday night TV offer 2,005,000 16.1 Casados a primera vista. Leader in Commercial Target 1,921,000 13.7 Hipnotízame. Leader among young targets 1,840,000 13 El Peliculón. Leader cinema offer in comercial target in the weekends 1,791,000 12.3 El Incidente. Most-viewed premiere among no sports programmes 1,727,000 12.1 Antena 3 Noticias 1 M-F. Only news programme that grows in the afternoon 1,640,000 13.3 Antena 3 Noticias Fin de semana 1. Leader private offer of the afternoon slot 1,634,000 14.1 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 49 | Antena 3 (11.6%): Leader in Commercial Target in prime-time, and morning and weekend TV, while scoring the most-viewed broadcasts of 2017 Broadcast Thousands Share Top Chef. Leader in Commercial Target 1,621,000 12 Antena 3 Noticias 2 M-F. Only private news programme that grows in Prime Time 1,620,000 11.7 Multicine. Leader of weekend afternoons 1,599,000 13.6 Me resbala. Leader of Friday nights 1,584,000 13.8 Antena 3 Noticias Fin de semana. Most-viewed private offer of the weekend 1,542,000 11.5 ¡Boom! Leader in Commercial Target 1,452,000 12.9 El secreto de Puente Viejo. Most-viewed series of the afternoon 1,419,000 14.4 Amar es para siempre. Leader fiction of the afternoon 1,357,000 12.2 ¡Ahora caigo! Benchmark of its slot 1,303,000 13.9 La ruleta de la suerte. Absolute leader in its most successfull year, since 2014 1,063,000 15.7 Karlos Arguiñano. Absolute leader of its time slot 611,000 13.7 Espejo Público. Reaches its annual historical high 478,000 17.7 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 50 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? laSexta (6.8%): outstrips Cuatro for the fifth straight year, again by the widest margin in its history Broadcast Thousands Share Al rojo vivo: ‘Objetivo PSOE’. Most-viewed special news programme 2,836,000 15.3 Al rojo vivo: Objetivo 1-O. Highest audience share special news programme 2,519,000 28,1% 17.Debat. Leader debate and the most-viewed programme of the day 2,371,000 13.3 Salvados. Most – viewed programme of the year in laSexta 2,129,000 11.5 El Intermedio. Most-viewed daily programme 1,815,000 10.2 ¿Dónde estabas entonces? Best premiere of the channel in two years and absolute leader 1,593,000 9.8 El Objetivo de Ana Pastor. Political news programme leader in Sundays 1,416,000 8 Malas compañías. Outstanding premiere of the year and leader over its competition 1,416,000 8.4 Cazadores de Trolls. Leader of its slot 1,374,000 7.6 El jefe infiltrado. Leader over its competitor 1,364,000 8.2 laSexta Noticias 14H M-F. Third best historical annual high 1,302,000 12.8 La isla. Success of critics and audience 1,226,000 7.4 laSexta Columna. Leader over its competitor 1,221,000 7.9 El Taquillazo. Leader Cinema offer over its competitor 1,104,000 7.8 laSexta Noticias. Second best annual audience share and ahead its competitor 1,033,000 9.9 for six years ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 51 | laSexta (6.8%): outstrips Cuatro for the fifth straight year, again by the widest margin in its history Broadcast Thousands Share laSexta Noticias 20H M-F. Third annual high of its history and leader over its rival 1,020,000 9.4 for 9 years. Equipo de investigación. Reportage programme on air for 7 years 1,019,000 6.2 laSexta Noche. Reference debate in prime time in Saturdays. 876,000 8.2 On air for 5 years laSexta Noticias Fin de semana 1. Reaches the best second record of its history 874,000 10 laSexta Noticias Fin de semana 2. Beats once more its competitor 796,000 6.8 Zapeando. Beats its competitor for 1,000 consecutive programmes 776,000 6.6 Más vale tarde. Reaches annual historical high 763,000 7.9 Al Rojo Vivo. Second best historical high, widening its leadership as the most-viewed 755,000 12.3 program of its slot. Jugones. Second best historical high 650,000 5.4 Expediente Marlasca: Historias de malos. New bet in late night 433,000 6.7 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 52 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Neox (2.5%): Leading prime time special-interest channel by advertising target audience (3.3%) Nova (2.2%): Leading women’s special-interest channel Mega (1.8%): Leading men’s special-interest channel Broadcast Thousands Share El chiringuito de jugones. Its best year since the start of its broadcast 245,000 4.6 Atreseries (1.1%): Leading new special-interest channel According to the latest TV image survey conducted by Personality Media, Antena 3 and laSexta were the Spanish public’s favourite channels. The survey analyses 11 categories, and one or another of Atresmedia Televisión’s flagship channels has the lead in eight of those categories. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 53 | 5.3.2.2. Radio The vision pursued by Atresmedia Radio and its brands (Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM) is to broadcast a wide range of content that will earn them recognition as the benchmarks for credibility, viewpoint diversity, entertainment and closeness to the expectations and concerns of the public. Given this focus, Atresmedia Radio’s range of products ended 2017 with a combined audience of four million listeners. Onda Cero is Spain’s third-largest general-interest station, with 2 million listeners, and is the only channel that grows in the two last consecutive EGM, finishing 2017 with a 3% increase (double than the Market), while Europa FM attracts 1.8 million listeners, being the forth ranked station in terms of audience share in a higly fragmented music radio landscape. Melodía FM has 300,000 followers. WHAT DOES ATRESMEDIA’S RADIO PROGRAMMING HAVE TO ACHIEVE? HOW DOES IT ACHIEVE IT? In 2017 Atresmedia Radio continued the process of renewing its programming schedules to adapt to listeners’ new demands and offer Innovate to offer innovative and flexible radio shows that are sensitive to societal change. our listeners fresh A highlight was the highly intensive news coverage effort undertaken in 2017 and attractive by Atresmedia Radio News programmes to address key developments arising programming in a particularly eventful year. These actions focused on broadcasting special news features on location from the specific stage of each event. Atresmedia’s radio stations strive for viewpoint diversity and a range of different approaches in their programming, thus earning recognition as independent and credible news outlets. To achieve this Atresmedia Radio works every year to sign up leading presenters and commentators to the Assuring roster of professionals: José Ramón de la Morena, Carlos Alsina, Juan Ramón independence, Lucas, Julia Otero, David del Cura, Javier Ruiz Taboada, Javier Cárdenas, viewpoint diversity Jaime Cantizano, Elena Gijón, Juan Diego Guerrero, Héctor Fernández, Bruno and credibility Cardeñosa, Silvia Casasola, Juanma Romero, Bartolomé Beltrán, José Luis Salas, Esther Eiros, Rocío Santos, Frank Blanco, Carlos Rodríguez, Soledad de Juan, Pablo Rodríguez, Wally López, Brian Cross, Mar Montoro, Sara Gil, Pablo Guerola, Juanma Ortega, and more. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 54 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Preserving the best As the Group’s general-interest station, Onda Cero continues to provide news of conventional and information at a level close to the audience. It manages an important radio: closeness to network of broadcasters that connect local businesses and institutions to the audience and listeners through highly attractive formats that bear a strongly local imprint. engagement Atresmedia is aware that the multiplatform era poses a tough challenge to its radio division. To rise to the challenge and grasp the opportunities that Adapting to the will emerge in its wake, Atresmedia is renovating its radio headquarters to new features of the equip them with the technology that will build 21st-century radio. As a result radio medium in the of these innovations, video content can now be produced alongside radio 20 first century broadcasting. Radio thus becomes a multiplatform medium that can be distributed over the Group’s range of different platforms and thus improve content distribution. The Atresmedia Group remains determined to deliver on its commitments Support the to the community, both through the set of initiatives within the Atresmedia community Commitment and through partnerships with advertisers, shows and commitments platforms. Throughout 2017, Atresmedia Radio dedicated airtime to acquired by the broadcast community-related content, especially the Group’s CR activities. Group (Further information at Corporate social responsibility). Onda Cero, Spain’s third-largest conventional radio outlet, was the only general-interest station to grow in the last two consecutive waves of the EGM audience survey, and ended 2017 with 3% growth, doubling the market average. One of the biggest milestones of 2017 for Atresmedia Radio was the deal signed with Unidad Editorial. The purpose of the agreement is to reinforce the respective sports coverage of the two groups and create further synergies between their editorial staffs. Under the terms of the alliance, José Ramón de la Morena’s El transistor show will be broadcast on all stations bearing the Radio Marca brand. In addition, towards the end of the year we officially announced that Jaime Cantizano would be joining Onda Cero’s weekend morning programming. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 55 | Other programme scheduling changes that we introduced to adapt to audience demand were extended airtime for Julia en la onda, headed up by Julia Otero, which is now broadcast from 15.00 to 19.00, and Héctor Fernández’s joining Javier Ruiz Taboada to present Radioestadio. Europa FM comfortably won the fourth position of the audience share ranking in an increasingly atomised music radio landscape. Audience shares in 2017 Strategic aims Content News programmes O 1.: Attractive content Más de uno. Formula for success: credibility, plurality and O 4.: Competitive radio entertainment (1.3 million daily listeners) position O 2.: Leverage multimedia La Brújula. Information and analysis with calm position: coverage as key (345,000 daily listeners) value Julia en la Onda. The value of the word O 1.: Attractive content (541,000 daily listeners) O 4.: Competitive radio position Noticias mediodía. The most vibrant summary of morning news (233,000 daily listeners) Entertaining programmes ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 56 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? No son horas. The most entertaining late night show (79,000 listeners) Te doy mi palabra. Commitment with solidarity O 1.: Attractive content (14 years on Onda Cero) O 4.: Competitive radio position La rosa de los vientos. The revelation of the reality border (20 years on Onda Cero, 107,500 listeners on average) Gente viajera. Reference of the tourist sector (316,500 listeners on average) Sports programmes O 1.: Attractive content El Transistor. Reference programme of sports in the night O 4.: Competitive radio (368,000 listeners) position O 5.: Distribute content on all Radioestadio. Sports changed into entertainment platforms (445,000 listeners) Music programmes Europa FM (Forth music radio, 1.8 million listeners) Levántate y Cárdenas. The reference morning show of the Spanish radio landscape O 1.: Attractive content Vamos tarde. The first after work show of the radio O 4.: Competitive radio position Ponte a prueba. Histories told in the darkness O 2.: Leverage multimedia ¿Me pones?. The best music, chosen by the audience position: coverage as key value Europa Baila. The most electric sessions of David Guetta, Armin van Buuren, Hardwell and Brian Cross Melodía FM (300,000 daily listeners) Despiértame Juanma. Humour and the best music of Melodía FM ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 57 | 5.3.2.3. Advertising Atresmedia Publicidad is the marketer of the Atresmedia Group’s advertising airtime, and the leading company among its peers in Spain across all distribution media: television, radio and online. Its vision is to analyse and identify customers’ needs, offer them the best advertising placement and make their communication plans more effective on Atresmedia than with competitors. Atresmedia Publicidad has become again the exclusivist with the highest stake in the advertising market, with an share of around 20%; as well as the highest power ratios of the markets in which operates. Moreover, Atresmedia acquired Smartclip Latam, so it has become the leader group in the Spanish digital advertising market. WHAT DOES ATRESMEDIA HAVE TO DO AS AN AIRTIME MARKETER? HOW DOES IT ACHIEVE IT? Innovation and effectiveness are the mainstays of Atresmedia Promote transparency, Publicidad. We are committed to continue to research advertising effectiveness and effectiveness so as to offer the best possible service to agencies and innovation in marketing advertisers. The Group’s innovation focuses on two areas: creating communications new advertising formats and enhancing the product offered to brands. (Further information at Effectiveness and Profitability). Even since it was first established, Atresmedia Publicidad has followed Advocate for selfrobust principles of business ethics based on responsible management regulation of the industry of advertising and marketing communications, as set out in its to protect consumer and Responsible Advertising Policy and its four lines of action: innovation, customer rights quality, self-regulation and commitment to the community. All Atresmedia’s advertising content is subject to strict quality control before airing so as to go beyond mere regulatory compliance and Enhance the effectiveness ensure that all the requirements voluntarily assumed by the Group of quality controls in its self-regulation codes are also satisfied. (Further information at Responsible advertising>Quality management). Atresmedia Publicidad seeks out advertisers whose communication Support community needs tie in with the Group’s own corporate responsibility activities so commitment in that both the advertiser and Atresmedia benefit from partnering in the partnership with resulting communication campaigns. (Further information at Corporate advertisers social responsibility> Our advertisers’ community commitment) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 58 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Self-regulation Atresmedia is concerned to practise an ethical form of marketing communication and to protect the rights of the public – children in particular (for further information about child protection initiatives, go to Child protection). The Group remains firm in its commitment to responsible advertising and audiovisual content by subscribing voluntarily to a wide range of codes of ethics and conduct that go beyond strict regulatory compliance and form the basis of our advocacy for self-regulation by the industry. Atresmedia Televisión is an active and founding member of Autocontrol, Spain’s association for the self-regulation of commercial communications. This forum works towards enhancing compliance with advertising and competition laws and regulations and strengthening the assurances protecting advertisers, television channels and consumers. Self-regulatory codes signed by Atresmedia and date of effect Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications of Gambling Activities (2012) Self-Regulatory Code on Food Advertising Targeting Young People, the Prevention of Obesity and Promotion of Health (2010) Self-Regulatory Code on Advertising Toys to Children (modified in 2010) Self-Regulatory Code on Advertising for Spanish Brewers (2009) Self-Regulatory Code on Wine Products (2009) Self-Regulatory Code on SMS Marketing (2009) Self-Regulatory Code of the Spanish Federation of Alcoholic Beverages (FEBE) (2006) Atresmedia Publicidad highlight activities in 2017 Television Atresmedia knows full well the power of new advertising formats, such as branded content, and has therefore optimised the use of its platforms in order to offer innovative spaces that have a real impact for advertisers. Key actions and initiatives with advertisers were as follows in 2017. Los Hygge, una pareja muy natural was shown on laSexta as a docu-reality show sponsored by Arla. The campaign involved a total of six programmes on laSexta, teasers and other advance publicity and a press conference that enjoyed considerable press coverage. The show content had its own microsite and was included on Atresplayer, shown on social networks and featured an ambitious activation plan. In April, Amstel premièred El Pelotari and la Fallera at the Callao cinemas in Madrid. Directed by Julio Medem and starring Asier Etxeandia and Miriam Giovanelli, the short film was also shown during prime time on Atreseries, accompanied by teasers and advances. There was also a special programme covering the première of the film at Callao cinemas. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 59 | For the new Mixta campaign, Atresmedia and AEGIS designed a crossover with flagship prime time programmes El Hormiguero and El Intermedio in June. The initiative involved a live crossover between the El Hormiguero on Antena 3 and El Intermedio on laSexta for their new campaign, the Debate #MixtaDebatex, hosted by Juan and Damián from El Hormiguero and by Dani Mateo from El Intermedio. It was the first time this advertising format had been attempted by any Spanish media group. To mark the launch of Justice League, Antena 3, Mega, Nova and Atreseries all launched an innovative new advertising format known as superbloque. The promotion was aired on 30 October during prime time so as reach the largest possible audience. Warner Bros was the first advertiser to take the plunge with this new format being offered by Atresmedia in partnership with IPG Mediabrands. The promotion got under way with a 20-second spot of the film, followed by five fivesecond clips each dedicated to the five superheroes and interspersed with adverts from other brands, and finally a second 20-second spot to end the promotion. Radio Atresmedia remains firmly committed to innovative radio formats and approaches that generate meaningful brand experiences for consumers and advertisers, such as developing ad hoc advertising pieces tailored to each client and to each phase of the campaign. Hoax story as part of the Christmas lottery campaign on radio station Europa FM and its website. The hosts simulated radio interference as if caused by aliens. Meanwhile, several Europa FM radio jockeys came up with an advertising ploy for Vueling, inviting listeners to open the Shazam app in order to capture electronic voice phenomena. The app then redirected them to a landing page that deciphered the ghostly voice signals: a 25 euro discount code for Vueling flights! Ballantine’s opted for its own show, We sound, which was aired on Europa FM on Saturday afternoons. In advertising, a “D” Day is a group of advertising actions carried out by an announcer over the course of a day, featuring various formats (mentions, interviews, news and live connections). This year, Onda Cero launched “D” Day Shiseido to let listeners know about the company’s new range of products. Digital The new digital platforms are making it much easier to interact with users in different ways and provide more information on their tastes and habits. Here, there were two highlights in 2017. Atresmedia acquired Smartclip Latam, allowing Atresmedia Publicidad to become the leading domestic operator in the digital advertising market by reaching out to over 90% of the population. Both companies are pioneers when it comes to coverage, premium content, brandsafe, viewability, transparency and online video. Since January 2017, advertising time sales platform AUNIA –created in 2014– allows advertisers to choose not only their target audience and the time slot in which they wish to insert their campaigns, but also their chosen launchpad media group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 60 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.3.2.4. Online The Atresmedia Group continued to move forward with its video strategy by diversifying distribution channels, optimising user experience and enhancing content variety. Atresmedia Digital is the division that brings together all the Group’s online activities, providing a powerful and wide-ranging distribution infrastructure that will enable it to adapt to the online world. Atresmedia Digital’s vision is to be recognised by users as synonymous with a comprehensive audiovisual experience, with a wide-ranging offer both comprising quality content drawn from Atresmedia’s conventional platforms and content designed for the online medium exclusively. Atresmedia Digital groups together and manages the websites of all the Group’s channels and broadcasters, the online native platform Atresplayer (television video online platform), Temáticos&Partners (which includes special-interest portals and partnership agreements) and Flooxer (premium native content), as well as the social media operated by the Group’s brands (220 profiles in total). WHAT DOES ATRESMEDIA’S ONLINE DIVISION HAVE TO ACHIEVE? HOW DOES IT ACHIEVE IT? Atresmedia has renovated the Group’s catalogue of websites to make them more uniform, accessible and user-friendly. All the websites under Adapt to content the company’s management have already adopted the “responsive” consumption trends and system and therefore adapt to all viewing devices. deliver content via all As to the Group’s OTT content distribution, new apps were developed available media for LG, Android TV and Apple TV sets, and we worked on improving the experience using devices such as Google Chromecast. Leverage the advantages of online platforms In 2017, Atresmedia Digital exceeded 600 hours of subtitled onto improve content demand content. Further information at Accessibility. accessibility ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 61 | In 2017 we improved age rating signage on Atresplayer and implemented a project on Flooxer to identify users before they can access content for over 18’s. Protect vulnerable On a special-interest websites, Atresmedia advocates for responsible audiences having access use of social media and new technologies. Our tech specialist to distribution platforms website, Tecnoxplora, is particularly critical of children’s exposure to inappropriate content and alerts to this unfortunately widespread phenomenon. Further information at Child protection. In 2017, we redesigned and regrouped all the websites that support our Give voice to the Group’s corporate responsibility initiatives under the Compromiso Atresmedia corporate responsibility umbrella. initiatives Further information at Awareness campaigns. Create a relationship of Social media activity is one of the cornerstones of Atresmedia Digital’s listening actively to our business, and goes beyond publishing to an intense focus on active audiences over online listening and comment moderation to avoid violent or explicit content. networks Native digital platforms Temáticos & Partners The leading online The biggest Quality short video television video format conglomerate of platform with which in Spain. It essentially thematic websites run Atresmedia is aiming to makes all Atresmedia by a Spanish media optimise the distribution content accessible on company. It comprises of original content any device through a 14 specialist portals, to young audiences, relations-based model, seven partnership which have been broken i.e. by having users create agreements with down demographically an account to use the prominent publishers and and linked to five platform. Atresmedia has Spanish native Internet different brands: Over continued to keep up resources, covering a Power (gaming and with new technologies in wide range of subject video consoles), Fun response to the growing matter through gateways UP (the most popular trend among users such as: Autopista, entertainment shows), of viewing and using Motociclismo, Men’s Top Trending Vídeo content on different Health, Woman’s Health, (aimed at university devices and technologies. Sportlife, Runner’s, Guía students), Hypno (for In 2017, Atresplayer Infantil, economíadigital. those wanting a shot of broadened its range of es, microsiervos. culture) and Girls Time existing multi-platform com, diariogol.com, (channel for the new products available on cerodosbe.com, bysmag. woman). The Company PC, tablet (iOS, Android com and Filmin, a committed heavily to and Windows), consoles website dedicated to technology during the and smartphones (iOS, independent films and year, resulting in the Android and Windows) to leading series in Spain. launch of its own Smart include smart TVs (adding TV app. Flooxer is now the Samsung Tizen the preferred choice update) and systems such for advertisers looking as Google Chromecast to reach out to young and, since June, Apple TV audiences. and Android TV. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 62 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? According to the latest report published by CNMC, Spain’s competition supervisor, the Atresplayer app, with 10 million downloads, is the most widely used on tablets and mobile phones for watching on-demand television content. Atresplayer has a usage rate of 46%, versus Rtve.es (39%), Mitele (37%) and Netflix (3,7%) User shares in 2017 The strong audience ratings achieved by Atresmedia’s news, current affairs and entertainment content have attracted a considerable volume of users to the Group’s online platforms. Atresmedia places among the top 10 most visited properties in Spain according to comScore, the official online audience measurement agency. Channels Strategic aims Use performance Reached 9.6 million unique users a month (+22%). The most visited website is Noticias de Antena 3, although we also achieved major milestones in entertainment (the moment when Antena 3 María Castro was proposed to on air on the show El Hormiguero 3.0 went viral within 48 hours) and sports (the 4K broadcast of the Champions League final with 360° vision as seen from various locations in the O 2.: Leverage multimedia stadium). position: coverage Achieved 5.9 million unique users a as key value O 5.: month (+ 22%). Distribution strategy The most visited website is the Websites that maximises Noticias de laSexta portal, and that content value laSexta success carries over to the websites O 11.: Reinforced position of the news and current affairs on the online programmes Al rojo vivo, Más Vale market Tarde, El Intermedio and laSexta Noche. Onda Cero increased unique users a month by 17% (1.2 million) and, in October, when the Catalan crisis was at its height, the website recorded the best figure in its history (2 Radios million unique users). Europafm.com grew its unique user score by 10%, and places as the second biggest Spanish music radio station online. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 63 | Channels Strategic aims Use performance O 2.: Leverage multimedia Atresplayer is the leading online position: coverage video platform for television Atresplayer as key value content: 482 million video views in O 5.: Distribution strategy 2017. that maximises content value In 2017, seven million unique users O 6.: Develop proprietary visited Atresmedia’s 14 specialTemáticos & distribution interest websites. Native Partners environments Video consumption on these sites digital O 7.: Leverage premium multiplied by 10 with respect to platforms content demand 2016. O 8.: Content business O 11.: Reinforced position on the online 1.6 million users a month viewed the market website’s content (+ 55%). O 12.: Convergence It is the second most widely between online recognised video platform, only and conventional behind YouTube. advertising 43 million users follow the Group’s O 2.: Leverage multimedia more than 220 social media position: coverage accounts. as key value laSexta Noticias’ profile is the most Social media O 11.: Reinforced position widely followed: it has 1.06 million on the online Twitter followers and close to 1 market million Facebook followers, doubling its own figures for 2016. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 64 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.3.2.5. Diversification The vision of the Atresmedia diversification unit is to take forward projects and develop new lines of business based on models that are not directly dependent on revenue from the conventional advertising market in Spain. WHAT DOES ATRESMEDIA DO THROUGH ITS DIVERSIFICATION DIVISION? HOW DOES IT ACHIEVE IT? Operates three Atresmedia provides its best entertainment, news and current affairs international television content to more than 50 million homes around the world. channels Leverages the Atresmedia This business unit extends the scope and raises the profile of brands and seeks Atresmedia’s brands and content beyond TV screens. business opportunities Invests in start-ups with Using the Media for Equity model, the diversification division supports national and international entrepreneurship and is now positioned as one of the key players in potential Spain’s venture capital industry. Through the Group’s publishing business and the Atresmúsica record Supports and takes part label, the Atresmedia Group manages, creates and develops high valuein the music industry added models in the music industry. Our strategy is to undertake high-potential projects with the capacity to have a meaningful impact on Group performance. In 2017, this business accounted for 6.47% of revenue. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 65 | Atresmedia Diversificación International New businesses Media for equity Musical publishing 2017 performance by line of business Atresmedia Internacional: 2017 was the year in which Atresmedia Internacional became firmly established: it achieved combined growth of close to 15% in distribution, and broke through the ceiling of 50 million subscribers. It is a leading broadcaster in Latin America and in the Spanish-speaking segment in the United States, and the European private operator with the most channels and the largest number of subscribers overseas. Strategic aims Channels Milestones Continued to grow in the United States. With the launch of its DirectTV signal, it achieved distribution of more than 70% in the Spanish-speaking pay-TV market. The year’s most popular content included the series Velvet and the interview with Nicolás Maduro, which was simulcast in Spain. Created under an agreement between Atresmedia and ¡HOLA! magazine, the channel has 20 million household subscribers and produces 700 hours a year of original content. Having already acquired wide distribution in Mexico, Argentina and Colombia, the channel is now attracting new O 5.: Distribution strategy subscribers in the United States thanks to that maximises content our deals with Altice, Sling and Cox. value O 7.: Leverage premium The channel aims to become a leading content demand outlet for fiction series consumers overseas. O 8.: Global Atresmedia own Atreseries launches exclusive premieres of content business series produced by Atresmedia. O 9.: Expansion of The launch of Atrescine was prepared in 2017. Thanks to the international presence partnership with Video Mercury Films, the world’s largest distributor in the online advertising of Spanish pictures, Atrescine boasts the best catalogue of films sector in the Spanish-speaking world, with over 7,000 titles covering all genres. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 66 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? New businesses: this unit manages the channel’s brands to grant merchandising and direct marketing licences and seeks business opportunities in segments beyond advertising. Strategic aims Lines of business Milestones O 8.: Global Atresmedia own content business We have brought the Top Chef brand closer to the public under a deal with the Lidl supermarket chain, rolling out new activities Licences and and products with a high media impact. merchandising MISTERENTRADAS made partnership deals with major events like the Billy Elliot musical and the Harry Potter and Games of Thrones exhibitions. We made deals with companies in several sectors – e.g. online gambling, telesales – Commercial for morning and overnight broadcasts that programming generate revenue for both parties, such as Joyas TV on Nova or the European Poker Championship on laSexta. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 67 | Media for Equity: Atresmedia’s strategic investment in start-ups has positioned us as a key player in Spain’s venture capital landscape. Strategic aims Lines of business Milestones O 10.: Entry to additional markets O 11.: Reinforced position on the online market Atresmedia holds stakes in mobile apps with international MEDIA FOR EQUITY: AYUDANDO potentialDE AL CRECIMIENTO like Glovo, LAS STARTUPS Fintonic, Job Today and Fever. In 2017, Investment those companies combined attracted in start-ups finance worth more than 80 million euros. Our investees have business ties with Atresmedia through their advertising campaigns. Music rights: the strategy of our music publishing business is to maximise catalogue size so that we can offer the best service to our own business divisions and third parties. Atresmúsica is already the leading Spanish company by radio presence, behind only the three multinational music publishing giants. Strategic aims Lines of business Milestones Creates music content for the Group’s programming schedules. In 2017, we also widened the Irradia catalogue, which now exceeds 3,000 titles and is used in Music publishing the United States, Japan and Europe. In addition, we acquired three international catalogues: Audiomachine, Kaptain and All Music. O 10.: Entry to additional markets The Group’s record label focused on producing film soundtracks for Atresmedia Cine. The label’s synergies with Universal Atresmúsica Music translated into lending continuity to the Atresmúsica programme and the launch of the album Zapeando el verano in partnership with Globomedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 68 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.3.2.6. Cinema Atresmedia Cine is the Group’s film production division whereby Atresmedia complies with the requirement under the Audiovisual Act whereby television operators must invest part of their revenue in the Spanish film industry. Like the rest of television operators, the Atresmedia Group is opposed to the mandatory nature of the so-called “investment charge”. However, we have turned this obligation into an opportunity. Atresmedia Cine’s vision is to achieve the same standard of quality that the Group demands from all its divisions and thus build a strong brand image in the film world and leverage its international visibility. Since it started business, Atresmedia Cine has released more than 120 titles, and our performance at the box office and at award ceremonies from year to year proves that we are a strong player in the film industry. HOW DOES THE FILM DIVISION CREATE VALUE FOR THE ATRESMEDIA GROUP? HOW DOES IT ACHIEVE IT? Besides enabling us to comply with the obligations under the Extends the brand image Audiovisual Act, Atresmedia Cine’s output places the Group in a strong to other industries position in the film industry. The success of the films in which Atresmedia is involved translates into Places Atresmedia on the visibility at international film festivals and award ceremonies, where international stage the Group’s film division has gained a foothold as a leading production firm. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 69 | Atresmedia’s film production activity places us in a leadership position: while in 2017 we were involved in only 6% of Spanish film releases that year, those titles accounted for 29.3% of box office takings by Spanish films. In addition to supporting Spanish film, through Atresmedia Cine the Group leverages synergies with Planeta by adapting bestselling novels for the silver screen. In 2017 we adapted the first novel in the Baztán trilogy by Fernando González Molina, El guardián invisible, with Marta Etura in the main role. As with the rest of the Group’s content production, Atresmedia seeks to create high-quality and responsible feature films that are inclusive of all audiences and a diversity of genres. Furthermore, Atresmedia supports the talent of both firmly established directors – such as Alex de la Iglesia, Fernando González Molina and Álvaro Díaz Lorenzo – and up-and-coming names. Examples include Andrés Koppel and Oriol Paulo, who after their hit film El cuerpo saw renewed success with their second feature, Contratiempo, starring Mario Casas, Bárbara Lennie, Ana Wagener and José Coronado, which in its first week of release was among the top 10 grossing films in China. International dimension Atresmedia Cine, the Group’s film division, has considerable international visibility through its presence at film festivals and award ceremonies, and overseas box office takings for films produced by the Group. In 2017, Spanish films that performed strongly internationally included El cuerpo, Contratiempo, El desconocido and Villaviciosa de al lado. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 70 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Box office performance In 2017 Atresmedia Cine released nine feature films which grossed close to 30 million euros at the box office and drew over 4.9 million filmgoers. Five of its films ranked among the top 10 grossing Spanish films in 2017 (Señor, dame paciencia, Toc, Contratiempo, El guardián invisible, El bar) and a further two among the top 15 (Abracadabra and Villaviciosa de al lado, which was already a hit in 2016). Box office rankings, Revenue as a % all Title Revenue Spanish film Spanish film, 2017 5 Señor, dame paciencia 6,623,779.56 6.50% 6 Toc 6,047,651.91 5.90% 7 Contratiempo 3,649,693.58 3.60% 8 El guardian invisible 3,604,811.53 3.50% 10 El bar 2,875,385.04 2.80% 14 Villaviciosa de al lado 1,808,307.10 1.80% 15 Abracadabra 1,687,436.16 1.60% 16 Oro 1,311,632.27 1.30% 17 La niebla y la doncella 1,198,358.25 1.20% 18 Plan de fuga 1,113,233.76 1.10% 73 Ozzy 20,610.03 0.00% 86 Que Dios nos perdone 12,314.66 0.00% 105 La reina de España 6,638.44 0.00% 116 El hombre de las mil caras 4,534.10 0.00% 177 Zipi y Zape y la Isla del Capitán 849.96 0.00% 277 Los últimos días 52.00 0.00% 281 Cuerpo de elite 41.50 0.00% 282 Perdiendo el norte 41.20 0.00% TOTAL 29,965,371.05 29.30% Films released in 2017 28,111,982.06 27.50% Awards Álex de la Iglesia’s thriller El Bar, starring Mario Casas, Blanca Suárez and Carmen Machi, was released in several countries and screened at the Berlinale film festival (out of competition). At the Málaga film festival Atresmedia Cine presented three of its productions. Two titles competing for awards, the thriller Plan de Fuga , directed by Iñaki Dorronsoro, which won the biznaga for best soundtrack, and the thriller La niebla y la doncella. The comedy Señor, dame paciencia was screened as the festival’s closing film. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 71 | In the summer we released Abracadabra, directed by Pablo Berger and starring Maribel Verdú, José Mota and Antonio de la Torre. The film was critically acclaimed and nominated this year for the Premios Feroz, Medallas CEC and Premios Goya awards, including the “Best picture” category. Based on a short story by Arturo Pérez Reverte, Atresmedia Cine’s last production of 2017 was Oro, directed by Agustín Díaz Yanes and starring José Coronado, Bárbara Lennie and Raúl Arévalo. This historical adventure film was nominated for six Goya awards. Strategic aims Festival Film El Bar Berlinale La Reina de España El Bar O 8.: Integration of featureFestival de Málaga Cine Señor, dame paciencia length content within a single brand Plan de fuga O 10.: Investments tied to core businesses Festival de Sevilla Oro Festival de San Sebastián Inmersión Festival de Torno Inmersión Madrid Premiere Week Oro Forthcoming productions Atresmedia Cine is in the process of producing the ambitious animation feature films Dragon Keeper, in partnership with China, and Klaus, directed by Sergio Pablos, which has been acquired by Netflix. In 2018 we shall also release the fantasy thriller Down a Dark Hall, starring Uma Thurman, the Western The Sisters Brothers, with Jake Gyllenhaal, and the drama Inmersión, directed by Wim Wenders, with Alicia Vikander and James McAvoy, which was screened at the San Sebastián film festival. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 72 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.3.3. Major stakeholders (GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) Atresmedia has identified the following stakeholders with whom it interacts in the course of its business: advertisers, audiences, shareholders, employees, suppliers (distributors, production firms and service providers), regulators and wider society. To know its stakeholders’ demands, Atresmedia has set up an email account for receiving feedback and comments on its content, advertising and technical incidents, requests for information, and suggestions for collaboration on a variety of fronts. This account received 297 mails in 2017. Other communication tools include the shareholder, investor and advertiser offices, and a public helpline that has taken more than three 34,000 calls. 70 43 discussion million groups followers 560 participants 220 corporate profiles One of Atresmedia’s priority external stakeholders is its audiences. In line with its unwavering commitment to meeting the demands of viewers regarding the content of its channels, in 2017 Atresmedia conducted 70 focus groups, gathering the opinions and assessments of around 560 people. This dialogue initiative is rounded off with proactive social media management. Atresmedia has 220 corporate profiles available to 43 million users, with which it has ongoing dialogue. We supplemented these actions with the launch of Atreseries Opina, which is Atresmedia’s commitment to listen to the community and engage with the public, and thus keep in direct touch with our television audiences. This activity enabled us to attract 70 proposals a month over our specially designed website: Atreseries.com/opina ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 73 | The Group believes it is essential to keep up an open and unrestricted dialogue with employees. We have accordingly put in place the following employee communication channels: an orientation manual for new entrants, the MASD3 online magazine, and a corporate intranet project. Finally, to produce this report Atresmedia has taken stock of its stakeholders’ perceptions and expectations by running a direct survey over the course of the first weeks of 2018. The Company has updated its materiality matrix and identified priorities for Atresmedia and its stakeholders. In addition to eliciting its stakeholders’ opinions and concerns, Atresmedia tries to familiarise them with how the media industry works by providing guided tours of our premises so that visitors can see how the Group operates. Over the course of 2017 close to 2,300 people across 96 visits by schools, universities, advertisers, associations and foundations had a first-hand glimpse of the Group’s day-to-day work at Atresmedia’s premises and facilities. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 74 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? 5.3.4. Corporate responsibility (GRI 102-44) Atresmedia published its first Corporate Responsibility Policy in 2010. The policy was updated in 2015, based on the recommendations in the CNMV’s new Good Governance Code, and approved by the Board of Directors, becoming the General Corporate Responsibility Policy. Its content and objectives are available on the Group’s corporate website (www.atresmediacorporacion. com). The Corporate Responsibility Policy is overseen by the Audit and Control Committee. This policy is supplemented by the responsible advertising, human resources, social commitment and environmental policies applicable to nonfinancial areas affected by, or that could be affected by, the Group’s operations. The policy sets out the Group’s commitments and the guiding principles for delivering on them in the right way. Our commitments and principles complement the Group’s strategic priorities, and guide the actions we take to achieve them: Commitment Principles of action C 1. To produce and broadcast responsible news Quality, commitment, accessibility, accuracy, viewpoint and entertainment content diversity; and protection of and advocacy for human rights that is accessible for all society Honest and transparent business management, service quality, C 2. To promote high quality, advertising self-regulation, respect for human rights, child honest and ethical advertising protection, and commitment to wider society C 3. To support our Assuring our employees’ welfare and career development, employees as the company’s non-discrimination, support ethical conduct among the people main asset at our Company, and strict compliance with ILO requirements ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 75 | Commitment Principles of action Creation of Fundación Atresmedia, raising awareness in wider C 4. To help society progress society through Atresmedia’s media outlets, active partnership and develop with non-profits and support for corporate volunteering among our employees C 5. To minimise environmental impact Reducing the environmental impact of our operations and and raise awareness in raising awareness of environmental issues in wider society society about caring for the through our media outlets environment Comprehensive corporate governance system, corporate C 6. To strengthen corporate governance policy, Audit and Control Committee and governance Appointments and Remuneration Committee Fairness, transparency, impartiality and independence C 7. To transmit the in relations with our suppliers of goods and services, corporate policies and values sustainability in our procurement processes, and shared throughout the value chain commitment with our suppliers Channels for fluid and active dialogue with our stakeholders, C 8. To establish transparent transparency, reliability and balance in corporate reporting, relations with stakeholders and active involvement in Spanish and international corporate responsibility forums and organisations Atresmedia undertakes to apply these principles horizontally across all its activities. Therefore, Atresmedia conceives of its Group responsibility as a twofold commitment.. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT ATRESMEDIA Impeccable performance of its core Using its outreach to bring about positive business social change Atresmedia broadcasts responsible Atresmedia champions social progress by content and advertising, while minimising raising public awareness through actions its environmental impact, caring for the embodied in Compromiso Atresmedia and well-being of employees and ensuring the its foundation. For more information, see integrity of its system of governance. Contribution to society. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 76 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? Atresmedia’s Corporate Responsibility Committee is comprehensive in its concerns and consultative and advisory in its nature. Committee members include representatives drawn from Human Resources, Operations, Internal Audit, Corporate Governance, Advertising, Radio and Television Content, News and Current Affairs, and Fundación Atresmedia The main milestone in 2017 for integration of corporate responsibility with Atresmedia’s overall strategy was the adoption of the 2018-2020 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, which involves all Company areas horizontally. The aim of this second Corporate Responsibility Master Plan is to create internal and external value from a corporate responsibility perspective. After preliminary analysis of good practices, trends and key stakeholders’ demands and a second stage involving internal diagnosis of Atresmedia’s situation as to the wider community, good governance and the environment, we identified a range of lines of action and a catalogue of monitoring indicators that will enable us to tie corporate responsibility to the running of the business itself. The Board adopted the Master Plan at its meeting of 20 December 2017 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 77 | 5.3.5. Management quality One of Atresmedia’s priority goals is to achieve the highest standards of quality in every show and every advertisement it broadcasts, and in its management processes. To ensure this, Atresmedia has a Quality Management System targeting control and continuous improvement in the organisation’s key processes applied to the Group’s main businesses. The Internal Audit and Process Control Department coordinates this System, while the Quality Committee, comprising members representing the departments that are most closely involved, meets at regular intervals to review the System and oversee the implementation of action plans and improvements. Audience perception research showed again this year that Antena 3 is the highest-rated general-interest channel. It is perceived as the most diverse channel and the one most concerned to create quality content. The System is supported by a corporate app that identifies, classifies and categorises all incidents, whether or not they affect broadcasting. We also have in place a monthly communication and reporting system that informs the management of the Group and of the business units of the source of quality defects, the description and classification of each incident, and all steps taken to correct it. The system follows these steps: Making Identifying, improvements to controlling the process: lessons and monitoring learned incidents Continuous Assessing the analysis of the effectiveness underlying of corrective cause and party actions responsible Identifying corrective and improvement actions ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 78 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? The effectiveness of the system and the improvement plans launched since the Quality System was introduced have notably reduced the number of incidents arising in the course of content production, recording and broadcasting. Television incidents Digital incidents 300 100 250 80 200 60 150 40 100 20 50 0 0 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, incidents mainly related to on-screen lower-third text during live broadcasts. To minimise incidents we have introduced several plans to enhance technology and processes for content and advertising broadcasting on television. The main features of the improvements introduced as a result of the Quality System are: • Increased resources allocated to recording and monitoring television quality incidents • Implementation of the New Protocol for Broadcasting Supervisor-Controller Communication This additional control mechanism within the broadcasting process is based on a new protocol of action and vigilance applicable to the Supervision and Control positions. • Introduction of Versio. This is a new level of security with a backup continuity system for continuity and broadcasting processes. In the online division, the main improvements in 2017 related to encoders for live radio listening, addition of new providers of programmed advertising who reinforce security for advertising content broadcasting, and enhanced monitoring and control of advertising broadcasting on the web and other devices. Thanks to these improvements, among others, incidents across all platforms decreased by 61% with respect to last year. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 79 | 5.4. Ethics management Atresmedia has in place a robust ethics management scheme to ensure that our news, current affairs, entertainment and advertising content reflects the exercise of responsible, diverse and independent reporting. The scheme is based on three main tools: the codes of ethics of Antena 3 Noticias and laSexta Noticias; the Corporate Responsibility Policy; and the Atresmedia Code of Conduct. The codes of ethics set out the principles and standards that shape the rules of conduct for news and current affairs programming on the Group’s television channels. The Antena 3 news and current affairs units are subject to the requirement that they offer reliable, quality reporting that is compliant with the following principles: 1 No conduct or information may violate the principles enshrined in the Spanish Constitution or breach any law or regulation. 2 The language we use must respect and reflect Spain’s linguistic diversity. 3 Respecting the dignity of people in all the information we provide. 4 Upholding the right to a private and family life. 5 Upholding the rights of people whose circumstances place them in a position of weakness or make them vulnerable to discrimination. 6 Ensuring strict compliance with the watersheds in place to protect children. 7 Respecting all people, regardless of race, religion, moral conviction, social origin, sexuality or any other matter relating to their beliefs. 8 Voicing the concerns of national and international organisations and groups that fight to protect underprivileged people and combat inequality and injustice. 9 Avoiding any conflict of interest between the professionals involved in news programmes. Clearing and explicitly separating information and news telling from advertising. Also 10 drawing a clear and unequivocal distinction between news telling and information that involves any kind of interpretation or critical discussion of current events. 11 Complying and upholding the legal principle of the presumption of innocence. 12 Taking extreme care when the news or information involves children and respecting all the principles and criteria governing the right to privacy and the protection of children. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 80 | 5. WHAT DO WE DO? The Code of Ethics of laSexta Noticias ensures accurate and diverse reporting that is committed to the following principles: 1 Respecting the Spanish Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations 2 Voicing the concerns of national and international organisations and groups that fight to protect underprivileged people and combat inequality and injustice Avoiding rude or coarse expressions, which may only be used when they add useful 3 information or help understand the news. If included, they may only be uttered by the subjects themselves and not by the news presenters or editors 4 Warning audiences before violent images are shown, which may only be displayed when they add relevant information 5 Verifying all information broadcast by laSexta Noticias so as to tell both sides of the story 6 Presuming all people to be innocent until proven otherwise by a court of law. For court cases, the information will indicate the situation of the defendant 7 Respecting people’s private life 8 Mentioning any media or press source from which exclusive information has been obtained ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. WHAT DO WE DO? | 81 | In its section on accuracy and viewpoint diversity, the Corporate Responsibility Policy sets out a commitment to reporting that enables members of the public to form their own opinion freely and on a properly informed basis. Furthermore, the section on protection of and advocacy for human rights ensures support for freedom of speech, diversity of viewpoints and non-discriminatory content. To ensure that these values are present in all Atresmedia’s content, the Group has two editorial committees charged with overseeing the independence and viewpoint diversity of its professionals, and the rigour, objectivity and truthfulness in the performance of their work in creating and selecting content for the Group’s channels. The editorial committees meet weekly and monthly. Weekly Monthly committee committee Scrutinises the content Reaches decisions on the shown on all channels, principles and approaches paying special attention followed by all Atresmedia to the independence of channels, relying on on the professionals involved the comments raised by and ensuring that all the weekly committee. viewpoints and ideas are heard. Atresmedia also has a Code of Conduct that sets out general guidelines of action to be followed by Atresmedia employees and partners and any person providing services at Atresmedia, in connection with basic principles of conduct, relations among employees, internal control and fraud prevention, and commitment to the market, the Company and the community. As a media group, Atresmedia receives government assistance, but this does not compromise the principles of independence and rigour inherent in the Group’s activity. Government assistance in 2017 amounted to 10.57 million euros. Atresmedia does not receive aid from non-government sources. Government assistance 2015 2016 2017 6.4 million 7.8 million 10.57 million ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 83 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISIONMAKING PROCESSES Atresmedia’s system of governance is based on its Corporate Governance Policy, the main aim of which is to support and protect the common interests of the organisation and its stakeholders, as reflected in the principles set out in that policy. WHAT ARE THE PRINCIPLES GUIDING ATRESMEDIA’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY? COMPLIANCE ACTIONS IN PROGRESS Create a corporate governance system that Adoption and application of the Corporate complies with statutory requirements, with Governance Policy. industry norms, and with our own standards. Annual action plan attached to the assessment Follow good governance recommendations and report to introduce good governance embed them in the system, wherever practicable improvements affecting the membership and and appropriate for company interests. functioning of management organs. Ensure that shareholders are treated fairly on Adoption and implementation of the Investor the basis of strict compliance with regulations Communication Policy Introduction of tools for against market abuse. compliance with regulations against market abuse, e.g., rules on the use and treatment of insider information. Shareholder office (telephone helpline and email Help shareholders exercise their rights (rights to and postal mailboxes). information, effective engagement and voting, Disaggregated information in the General etc). Meeting section of the corporate website. Implementation of online forums and voting Encourage communication with and the Regular meetings with audience members, active involvement of stakeholders with the meetings with shareholders, investor roadshows, company with a view to creating shared value ongoing direct dialogue with advertisers, and a (shareholders, investors, advertisers, employees, powerful communication plan. etc). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 84 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES WHAT ARE THE PRINCIPLES GUIDING ATRESMEDIA’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY? COMPLIANCE ACTIONS IN PROGRESS Ensure that the right procedures are in place to select directors so that there is reasonable Adoption and application of the Director balance and diversity on the Board for the Selection Policy. performance of its mission. Assure the quality and effectiveness of the Annual assessment of the Board, committees functioning and performance of the Board, the and officers, and, every three years, with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the assistance of an external consultant. Board Committees. Annual review of the extent of application of Put in place mechanisms to control and ensure the Corporate Governance Policy, reporting compliance with the procedures established on compliance with standards and the Good for oversight and monitoring of the corporate Governance Code for listed companies in the governance model. Annual Corporate Governance Report. Audit and Control Committee’s activity report. Maximum transparency to ensure timely and Publication of an annual report providing accurate disclosure of all issues relating to the broad-ranging coverage of financial, governance company, including its financial position, its and strategic issues, suitably in advance of ownership, governance of the business, and the General Meeting (Good Governance Code corporate responsibility. Recommendation 6). Involvement in forums and associations for the Member of Forética and Fundación SERES and improvement of corporate governance. an adherent of the UN Global Compact. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 85 | The system comprises the governance and management organs, subject to statutory provisions that ensure that those organs function properly, are suitably controlled, and interact appropriately with stakeholders. The elements relate to one another as set out in the following diagram: System of Corporate Governance Principles of the Corporate Governance Policy Governing and administrative bodies Rules, regulations and law Annual General Meeting Articles of Association Board of Directors Regulations of the governing bodies Code of Conduct Executive Committee Corporate policies Appointments and Remuneration Committee Protocols of the compliance and control model Audit and Control Committee Other internal protocols Regulatory Compliance Committee ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 86 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES 6.1. General Meeting 6.1.1. Powers, procedure, performance The General Meeting is the highest decision-making organ of the company, and its activities are governed by its own General Meeting Regulations. The powers of the General Meeting are set out in article 19 of the Company’s Articles and in the General Meeting Regulations. The text of these rules are permanently available on the corporate website. The quorum reached at the general meeting held on 19 April 2017 was 79.804% of share capital. Shareholders accounting for 18.755% of share capital were present in person, while shareholders accounting for 61.049% were present by proxy. At the annual General Meeting of 2017 the shareholders adopted the financial statements, management report, and appropriation of earnings for 2016, approved of the Board’s performance, and passed resolutions in the following respects: • Declare a special dividend to be paid out of voluntary reserves. • Approve the policy on remuneration to directors of Atresmedia Corporación for 2018, 2019 and 2020. • Take a consultative vote on the annual report on directors’ remuneration for 2016. 6.1.2. Right to attend, delegation and voting The right to attend General Meetings is vested in holders of 400 shares or more. All shareholders entitled to attendance are likewise entitled to be present by proxy. Proxies may be granted by means of the form of words for delegation set out on the Attendance, Proxy and Voting Card or any other form of words allowed by law. Shareholders owning at least 400 shares may delegate their voting rights to a shareholder who likewise has voting rights by reason of his or her shareholding. Atresmedia allows remote voting at General Meetings electronically or by post. To ascertain the authenticity and proper identification of a shareholder exercising his or her rights of proxy representation or voting by means of the remote facilities provided by Atresmedia, the statutory rules on recognised electronic signature and advanced electronic signature apply. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 87 | 6.2. Board of Directors 6.2.1. Membership, powers, procedure and performance The Board of Directors is the organ in charge of managing and representing the Company. The Board conducts its activity in accordance with the rules of organisation and operation set out in the Company’s articles and the Board Regulations. At 31 December 20171, the Board comprised 13 directors, 4 of whom were women, of an average age of 58.4 years. Director classes and the shareholders they represent are set out below:: José Creuheras Maurizio Carlotti Silvio González Patricia Estany Chairman Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Officer Coordinating Director Executive – Proprietary Other non-executive Executive Independent Josep María Benet Mauricio Casals Aurora Catà Marco Drago Member Member Member Member Proprietary Proprietary Independent Proprietary María Entrecanales Elmar Heggen José Manuel Lara Mónica Ribé Member Member Member Member Independent Proprietary Proprietary Independent Nicolas de Tavernost Manuel de la Viuda Margarita González Member Secretary Vice-Secretary Proprietary Note 1 The membership of the governance organs set out below is that prevailing at 31 December 2017. On 28 February 2018, four changes occurred affecting the membership and internal positions of the Board committees. First, Patricia Estany resigned as a member – and hence as the Chair of the Appointments and Remuneration Committee by reason of a supervening conflict of interest. Secondly, Mónica Ribé was appointed to that committee. Thirdly, Aurora Catá resigned as Chair of the Audit and Control Committee when her term ran out. And, fourthly, Mónica Ribé was appointed as Chair of that committee. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 88 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES The Board has opted for a model of separation of powers between the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman, who is also an executive director, so an independent director, Patricia Estany Puig, was appointed as Lead Independent Director. Board diversity Atresmedia’s directors have the full range of skills and knowledge required by the Group’s activity. All boast solid careers in management and strategy, with most having experience in the media sector. Some directors have broad experience in finance and risks, backed up by experienced in insurance. Atresmedia has four non-Spanish directors, who are nationals of France, Germany and Italy. Directors Other nonExecutive Proprietary Independent executive Board of 2 15% 6 46% 4 31% 1 8% Directors Nº % of total Under 50 2 15.38% Between 50 and 60 4 30.77% Over 60 7 53.85% Average age 58.4 Nº % of total Men 9 69.24% Women 4 30.76% Nº % of total Spanish 9 69.24% Foreign 4 30.76% ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 89 | Some directors are members of at least one of the Board committees, as specified below: First Board committee Director Position appointed Re-elected End of term memberships José Creuheras Chairman 16/06/2003 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Executive Margenat Maurizio Carlotti Vice Chairman 16/06/2003 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Executive Silvio González Chief Executive 25/04/2007 24/04/2013 24/04/2019 Executive Moreno Officer Lead Executive Patricia Estany Puig Independent 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Appointments and Director Remuneration Josep María Benet Member 25/04/2012 25/04/2019 Ferrán Mauricio Casals Appointments and Member 25/03/2009 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Aldama Remuneration Audit and Control Aurora Catá Sala Member 25/03/2009 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Appointments and Remuneration Marco Drago Member 16/06/2003 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Executive Audit and Control María Entrecanales Member 25/03/2009 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Appointments and Franco Remuneration Elmar Heggen Member 21/12/2005 25/04/2012 25/04/2019 Audit and Control José Manuel Lara Member 25/02/2015 25/02/2019 Audit and Control García Mónica Ribé Salat Member 20/04/2016 20/04/2019 Audit and Control Executive Nicolas de Tavernost Member 29/10/2003 22/04/2015 22/04/2019 Appointments and Remuneration (1) Co-optation, ratified by the shareholders at the General Meeting of 22 April 2015. Duties and responsibilities within the Board are distributed as follows: The Chairman of the Board and of the wider company is responsible Chairman of the Board for calling and chairing Board meetings, deciding on the agenda and steering discussions. May stand in for the Chairman by proxy, or where the Chairman is Vice Chairman absent due to illness or other causes, or where the position is vacant. The Vice Chairman currently has no delegated powers or authority. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 90 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES The CEO is tasked with acting on the resolutions carried by the Board Chief Executive Officer of Directors and the Executive Committee. He is currently vested with all the powers and authorities that the law allows to be delegated. As the Chairman is an executive director, the Company has observed the law by nominating a lead independent director, with the other executive directors abstaining from that vote. He is authorised to Lead Independent request that a Board meeting be called or that new items be added Director to the agenda of a meeting that has already been called. He also coordinates and holds meetings with the non-executive directors and oversees the periodic appraisal of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Secretary and any vice secretaries the Company sees fit to appoint may optionally be Board members. At present, they do not hold a seat on the Board. Only Board member secretaries may vote Secretary and Vice at meetings. Their responsibilities are prescribed by law and set out Secretary in the Articles of Association and include the duty to keep minutes of Board meetings, ensure that its actions are lawful and support the Chairman in keeping all Board members duly informed so they can carry out their functions accordingly. In 2017 the Board met on 10 occasions. The key decisions were to: • approve the acquisition of Smartclip Latam S.L.; • propose to the shareholders, at the annual General Meeting, that a special dividend be declared, to be paid out of voluntary reserves; • approve the alteration of the director class of Maurizio Carlotti, who henceforth is to be treated as “other non-executive” instead of executive, and adopt the terms and conditions for the engagement of his professional services as Vice Chairman of the Company and as an adviser on strategy; • adopt the protocol on the involvement of the Board’s Executive Committee in especially important matters; • adopt the protocol on succession of the Chairman of the Board and of the Chief Executive Officer; • adopt the 2018-2020 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan. Director appointments and departures Atresmedia has in place a Director Selection Policy based on two main factors: the external laws, regulations and standards that apply to Atresmedia (Ley de Sociedades de Capital [Companies Act], Ley de Auditoría de Cuentas [Auditing Act] and the principles and recommendations of Spain’s good governance code for listed companies); and Atresmedia’s own internal rules and standards (Board Regulations and Company’s Articles). The Director Selection Policy is based on the insight that appointments to the Board should be based on the following decisive factors: shareholder structure of the company; diversity of knowledge and experience of directors, their ability to dedicate sufficient time to doing their job, and their specialisation in specific ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 91 | key fields (finance, law, audiovisual management, etc); absence of actual or potential conflicts of interest; and a personal commitment by each director to defend editorial independence and further the interests of the company. The policy also sets the medium-term goal to achieve a greater presence of women on the Board the 30% level was reached in 2016 and ensures the absence of obstacles to their appointment. As to the selection process, proprietary directors are nominated by major shareholders, who submit their nominations to the Chairman of the Board; executive directors are selected by a consensus of major shareholders; and independent directors are selected by the Appointments and Remuneration Committee. 6.2.2. Assessment and remuneration The Chairman of the Board is responsible for organising and coordinating with the chairpersons of the Committees the periodic assessment of the Board and of the Chief Executive Officer. The 2016 assessment was conducted with the assistance of an independent consultant in line with the practice to be implemented every three years in accordance with Recommendation 36 of the Good Governance Code. In 2016, the assessment was based on personal interviews conducted by the external consultants with most directors, at least including all executive directors and all independent directors. Internal assessment is conducted on the basis of the annual reports on the membership, procedures and activities of the Board and its committees and responses to individual assessment questionnaires sent to all directors. The outcome of the assessment is a specific report which is first considered by the Appointments and Remuneration Committee and then adopted by the full Board. This report sets out an action plan and proposed improvements for the year, and the company discloses any changes arising as a result in its Annual Corporate Governance Report. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 92 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES The Remuneration Policy in its current form was approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and will remain in effect from 2018 through to 2020. The principles and criteria underpinning the Company’s remuneration policy are as follows: • Stability, objectivity and transparency of the remuneration system. • Remuneration commensurate to earnings: the Company may lower the remuneration paid to directors or add additional remuneration pegged to the attainment of targets relevant to the Company’s interests and pursuits. • Scale of the Atresmedia Group. • Dedication, experience and expertise of Board members based on the sector of activity. Specific remuneration will be different for executive directors and for other Board members heavily involved in the Company. • Different levels of remuneration for directors who provide specific services to the Company, even if not strictly executive. • Variable remuneration for executive directors who dedicate all their time to the Company. This pay will be pegged to the attainment of financial results and to their remaining a director at the Atresmedia Group. • Long-term variable remuneration consisting of a share option plan for the Chairman and CEO: includes long-term financial objectives and is contingent on them remaining at the Atresmedia Group. This remuneration is subject to a target and upper limit of 8,930,900 euros. • Variable remuneration payable in cash is limited to a maximum percentage of the beneficiary’s fixed salary and no unforeseen deviations are permitted. The heads of remuneration vary on the basis of each director’s duties and responsibilities. All directors and all members of the Executive Committee receive a fixed remuneration component and per diem allowances for attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees. At a General Meeting in 2016 the shareholders passed a resolution that set a ceiling on remuneration to the Board and specified the heads of remuneration it includes. Under the resolution, the total annual remuneration to which directors are entitled by virtue of their office and in respect of committee memberships is capped at 3 million euros. The Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration, which is available on the CNMV website and Atresmedia’s corporate website, reflects the application of the Policy in the reference year and breaks down directors’ remuneration into specific items. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 93 | 6.3. Board committees Directors Other nonExecutive Proprietary Independent executive Executive Committee 2 33% 2 33% 1 17% 1 17% Audit and Control 0 0% 2 40% 3 60% 0 0% Committee Appointments and Remuneration 0 0% 2 40% 3 60% 0 0% Committee The decisions adopted in 2017 by the Board and its committees are set out in the reports on their membership, procedures and activities, which are published on the corporate website in the General Meeting section. 6.3.1. Executive Committee The Committee’s main role is to do the preparatory work for Board meetings. The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, and one of the members is the Lead Independent Director. In 2017, the Executive Committee met on 11 occasions. All meetings were on the ordinary schedule, which is in line with the ordinary schedule of Board meetings, except for an additional Committee meeting held in January to consider the main points of the running of the Group’s business and review the provisional estimates for the 2016 year-end. 6.3.2. Audit and Control Committee The duties of the Audit and Control Committee include assisting the Board in supervising the financial reporting process, the company’s internal control, the work and independence of the external auditor, and the monitoring of the corporate governance and corporate responsibility principles and policies. Most Committee members are independent directors, including the Chair, and none of the members is an executive director. The Audit and Control Committee met six times in 2017, with attendance by the external auditor at three of the meetings. The external auditor also held a meeting with the full Board. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 94 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES The Audit and Control Committee is reported to by the Compliance Committee, the procedures, membership and duties of which are set out in the Compliance Regulations. The Committee is a collegial body vested in the power to construe and apply the Group’s Code of Conduct and to manage the Crime Prevention Model. The Committee is composed of executives from various management areas and chaired by the Chief Compliance Officer, a position held by an external independent professional. A Compliance Officer for Crime Prevention has also been appointed, with a seat on the Compliance Committee. He or she reports regularly to the Audit and Control Committee, especially with respect to crime-related risks, and the controls in place, as well as the operation of the Whistleblowing Channel. The Compliance Committee approves crime prevention training plans. In 2016 and 2017, training was given to 83.3% of Group employees, executives and middle management. The Compliance Officer for Crime Prevention updates information on the model regularly in communications sent to all employees (the most recent in January 2018). 6.3.3. Appointments and Remuneration Committee Tasks assigned to the Appointments and Remuneration Committee include defining and supervising application of the remuneration policy for directors and senior executives, and selecting and appointing directors (especially independent directors) in accordance with the specific corporate policy. The composition of the collegial management bodies must have a direct relationship with the composition of share capital, although the Committee may still pursue its objective of achieving a balanced and diverse membership. The Committee held four meetings in 2017. A majority of Committee members are independent directors. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 95 | 6.4. Risk management 6.4.1. Risk management and control system Atresmedia’s Risk Management and Control System, which is under the ultimate oversight of the Board, is a tool that assists Management in its decision-making processes. The Audit and Control Committee oversees the operation of the model and provides the Board with the information required for it to take decisions in this respect. By identifying and assessing risks and implementing controls and action plans for each situation, the system minimises the impact that might arise if a risk materialises and thus creates value throughout the Group. The scope of the system is Group-wide: risk analysis and control touches on all the Group’s activities and involves all our organisational units. Since 2015, Atresmedia uses the SAP tool known as GRC (Governance, Risk and Compliance) to systematise, classify and document the monitoring of all risks faced by the Group, as well as the associated controls. The main aim of the Risk Management and Control System is to identify risks, perform frequent assessments and define and apply specific control procedures to mitigate such risks. The specific aims are to: • Ensure consistency and uniformity when specifying, identifying and measuring risks in all the Group’s businesses. • Ensure that controls are applied in accordance with a testing schedule, measure their effectiveness and document the outcome. • Continuous improvement of the system by evaluating controls and identifying new potential risks on a scheduled basis. The controls required for the new risks are then specified and implemented. • Define and communicate policies, protocols and procedures to Group business units, offering users guidelines issued by the Group’s control and governing bodies. • Comply with laws, regulations and standards applicable to the Group’s activities. The Compliance System is a subset of the Risk Management and Control System. The Compliance System supports compliance with all laws and regulations, both specifically applicable to the sectors in which Atresmedia operates and generally applicable to listed companies. For further information, see System of compliance. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 96 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES Risks map Flags all risks and applicable law and regulations in each case Controls Procedures Controls Procedures Regulatory Competition Economic Advertising climate market Technological User trends Risks Macro affecting risks the business Activities of the Atresmedia Group and divisions Associates each risk with the relevant controls and lets the Company Process map gauge its impact at all times The system covers all risks (external and inherent to the business; financial and non-financial – operational, IT, legal, social, environmental, political and reputational) and the regulations applicable to each. It also establishes the controls and procedures that prevent the materialisation of these risks. The entire prevention and response mechanism is reflected in Atresmedia’s risk map. In addition to the risk map, the Group has a process map, which maps risks and controls to a range of internal, business and corporate processes. Management therefore has a tool that can detect risks that may arise at any time and have a greater impact on the Group’s processes and divisions. Ultimate responsibility for the GRC Model rests with the Board of Directors. However, the Board is reported to by the Audit and Control Committee, which oversees the operation of the Model. The Audit and Control Committee in turn is briefed by the Regulatory Compliance Committee and by the Internal Audit and Process Control areas. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 97 | As the system is Group-wide in scope, the rest of Group units are also involved in its operation, as shown in the following diagram. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Approves the Risk Management Policy AUDIT AND CONTROL Oversees the proper functioning of the model Reporting Guidance COMMITTEE Reports to the Board REGULATORY COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Reports to the Audit and Control Committee INTERNAL AUDIT AND PROCESS CONTROL SAP GRC Regulatory Compliance Compliance Finance Legal Affairs Internal Audit Compliance Officer for Units Department Department Crime Heads of Chairs the Implements Compliance Reports to the Regulatory control and ICFR and monitors controls committee Compliance oversight the Crime Committee* Prevention Model Regulatory Compliance Committee Internal Regulations Code of Whistleblowing on the Securities Monitoring conduct channel Market *Pedro Ramón y Cajal is the current chairman of the Regulatory Compliance Committee. He is both independent and non-executive and has been granted the broadest decision-making authority. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 98 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES The process of assessing risks and designing response plans go through the following stages: Determining the level of risk tolerance Risk tolerance is determined case by case on the basis of two criteria: the processes that could potentially be affected by the risk and level of results likely to be impacted Assessing the level of risk exposure Depends on whether the risk is residual or inherent. Inherent risks are those that exist in the absence of actions to control Risk assessment their probability of occurrence and Based on their impact (in view impact, while residual risks are those that of the negative impact the risk remain even after the controls have been would have were it to materialise) accounted for. and probability (probability of occurrence is estimated independently of the controls). Once the assessment has been completed, in the light of the results the system sets in motion an additional and exhaustive monitoring process for any risks that finally materialise or are more likely to do so. The response to risks that meet either of these two requirements is graduated on the basis of the stage at which they are identified: avoid, accept, reduce or share. Based on Atresmedia’s chosen approach to a risk, its extent of materialisation and the scenario that occurrence of the risk would affect, we implement appropriate action plans. Risks can arise in the following domains: regulation, competition, advertising market, technological, business, trends among communities and users, and general economic climate. The control tools for each risk on the risk map referred to above are: • Policies, Procedures and Protocols, adequately notified through the corporate communication channels to the affected areas and people. • IT Control Tools, such as: – GRC (Governance, Risks and Compliance) system – Procurement management system – Contractual engagement proposal management and authorisation system – Programme budget management and authorisation system – Quality system – IT application for compliance with the internal rules relating to securities markets ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 99 | • Whistleblowing channel: Enables all employees to notify, in an easy and confidential manner, those procedures that constitute inappropriate conduct or behaviour under the Code of Conduct or any other applicable legislation, and especially those that do not comply with the Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) System. • Control procedures relating to the Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) system: Atresmedia, in its undertaking to provide reliable, integral, true and uniform information to investments and to the market, has implemented an Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) System that guarantees the accuracy of the financial information issued. • Compliance Committee and Chief Compliance Officer The body charged with the management, surveillance, coordination and integration of corporate policies and actions aimed at complying with all applicable legislation and regulations (both external and internal protocols and procedures), as well as supervision of compliance with the Code of Conduct. Internal conduct regulation in securities market matters. • Internal Code of Conduct on Matters Relating to the Securities Markets • Compliance Officer for Crime Prevention 6.4.2. Main risks materialising in 2017 Identified risk Event Atresmedia response Through its own and third party research Atresmedia is highly The loss of correlation between familiar with the advertising the performance of the advertising market and adapts its marketing market and the performance of Advertising market policy on the basis of actual and the wider economy throughout forecast developments. Europe has posed difficulties as to Moreover, Atresmedia has framing our marketing policy. acquired Smartclip so as to grow in the online advertising market. Atresmedia has made deals and alliances with pay-TV operators Considerable increase in the offer and OT T platforms to widen of pay-TV and OTT operators in the distribution of its content. Increased Spain. Increased expenditure on competition Declining consumption of linear TV Atresplayer across the board, but with a lower Brand reinforcement for offering impact in Atresmedia channels. content over the widest possible range of platforms. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 100 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES Identified risk Event Atresmedia response The existence of our Crime Prevention Model, the Whistleblowing Channel, the Code of Conduct, the GRC System and Atresmedia has been affected the Crime Prevention Protocol by court orders issued against a has successfully prevented any Criminal number of authors. Atresmedia criminal liability for Atresmedia proceedings relating has not been charged with arising from this case. In addition, to SGAE any criminal liability; it has the Group has undertaken a merely been ordered to disclose comprehensive review of the documents. business area concerned, leading to the design and implementation of new specific controls that reflect the experience acquired in the past few months. 6.4.3. Cybersecurity and data protection Being aware of the IT-related threats attendant on technological progress, Atresmedia has an IT Systems and Security unit – a department of I3Televisión – which provides comprehensive IT security services to all Group companies. In this field, Atresmedia focuses on two factors: Cybersecurity Atresmedia has set in motion a comprehensive cybersecurity project to provide technology, services and/or tools that ensure the availability and continuity of its information assets 365 days a year. Cybersecurity is defined as the set of measures that ensure the availability of the elements that compose cyberspace. Cyberspace is conceived of as comprising a set of IT-related elements that provide essential services for the activities of a corporation. We focus on the elements that relate to critical infrastructure. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 101 | Principles of Good Cyber Security at Atresmedia 1 Improving surveillance of networks and systems. 2 Having centralised management tools and registries. Monitoring and correlating events (network traffic, remote users, administrator passwords). 3 Designing and complying with the Corporate Security Policy. 4 Ensuring secure configurations of all corporate network components. 5 Using trustworthy and certified products, equipment and services, as well as accredited networks and systems for sensitive or classified information. 6 Providing an agile and flexible means of exchanging information on threats and cyber incidents. 7 Ensuring the management’s commitment to cyber security by having the team accept the risks and support the policies. 8 Training and raising awareness of cyber security across all levels of the corporation. 9 Complying with the law and applicable standards and pursuing best practices. 10 Being resilient: ensuring that systems remain online even when under attack. Atresmedia follows a Reference Model that ensures that the purposes of Cybersecurity services are achieved. The model has four main functions that reflect the natural stages of the risk emergence process: • Governance: managing cybersecurity through risk management, policy design, awareness-raising, etc. • Protection: protecting information, managing access and identities, protecting IT applications and infrastructure (network security, systems security, etc). • Vigilance: managing threats and running security analyses. • Resilience: managing incidents. Based on this model, Atresmedia has built its Cybersecurity Strategy, which follows four principles: • Efficient management: the aim is to maximise available resources and protect assets in a proportionate way. • Vigilance: the goal is to anticipate threats and adapt to new digital models. • Gives Value: the system is usable for employees, reliable for shareholders and fit-for-purpose for customers. • Resilience: the system provides prompt and flexible responses that are proportionate to the threat. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 102 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES Data protection To complete its Cybersecurity Strategy, the Atresmedia Group has put in place an IT Security Model to comply with the Ley Orgánica de Protección de Datos, Spain’s Data Protection Act. The specification, construction and purpose of the model mean that it is relational, structured, parametrisable, scalable and capable of providing comprehensive solutions. It has its own organisational structure and is overseen by an IT security committee. In 2016, Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the General Data Protection Regulation, entered into force. It shall become applicable and replace the rules now prevailing on 25 May 2018. The Member States of the European Union and its institutions, companies and organisations must make their systems compliant before that deadline. Atresmedia is adapting its current IT Security Model so as to comply with the new regulatory requirements demanded by the RGPD. 6.5. Compliance system One of the control tools within Atresmedia’s GRC risk and control management system is the Compliance Model. The model must: • ensure compliance with all laws and regulations, whether specific to the sectors in which Atresmedia operates or generally applicable to listed companies and all businesses (employment, tax, environment, etc); • ensure compliance with the preventive requirements introduced by the recent reform of the Spanish Criminal Code as to the criminal liability of corporations; • set out procedures and approaches to prevent any offence contrary to the Criminal Code. • if a criminal offence were in the event committed, ensure that criminal liability does not attach to the corporation, or that such liability be attenuated by reason of appropriate control measures having been adopted. Atresmedia’s compliance function is the set of rules, standards, procedures, IT tools and other technical and human resources the common purpose of which is that the Atresmedia Group’s activities at all times comply with the law and remain consistent with the ethical principles that the Group itself has put in place to guide its business as a media group and as an enterprise. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 103 | The Compliance System has the following dimensions: • Laws and regulations applicable to Atresmedia, both specifically to the sectors in which it operates and generally to all companies. • Compliance risks: the GRC system identifies and assesses compliance risks in connection with all laws and regulations applicable to Atresmedia. • Compliance risk controls: a range of specific controls are in place to mitigate identified compliance risks, in addition to general controls. Specific controls are regularly assessed by the designated officer responsible for each control. The elements of the Atresmedia Compliance Model are classified into three categories: Element type Element Function Officer in charge Collegial body with overall responsibility for managing the Compliance Model and for construing and applying the Code of Conduct. In partnership with the Regulatory Internal Audit and Process Compliance Control Department, the Audit and Control Committee Committee Committee implements and (RCC) enforces internal control 1. Organisational and functional measures that detect, prevent and avoid criminal offences and breaches of civil, commercial, administrative or tax law. Entirely independent from the Chief Compliance authority of the management Chairs the Committee Officer structure of the Atresmedia Group The officer assuming direct Acts on his or her own and specific responsibility for initiative and independently, Compliance activities relating to criminal reporting exclusively to the Officer for Crime liability, and thus directly Compliance Committee Prevention responsible for effective and and the Audit and Control complete application of the Committee Model Audit and Review of effective Control compliance with the Group’s Board of Directors Committee policies ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 104 | 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES Element type Element Function Officer in charge The Code of Conduct is a set of Atresmedia’s own rules, which must be known to and applied by all Group employees and partners. The aim of the Code is to Code of Conduct establish the values that Audit and Control Committee are to guide conduct at the Atresmedia Group, while fostering a culture and pattern of behaviour that are shared, accepted and respected by all employees. A set of rules internal to Disciplinary Atresmedia that defines and 2. Regulatory system of the classifies breaches of the Regulatory Compliance Compliance Compliance Model and sets Comitee Model and crime out the respective sanctions prevention and the procedures for imposing them A set of rules internal to Protocol of Atresmedia that sets out the action in face procedure to be followed of breach of Regulatory Compliance when an actual or potential the Compliance Comitee breach is detected of the Model or crime duties and obligations under prevention model the Compliance Model Internal sets of rules within the GRC system that constitute Policies and additional control mechanisms Regulatory Compliance protocols to ensure compliance and Committee thus help prevent risks from materialising ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6. GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES | 105 | Element type Element Function Officer in charge IT application that integrates the Atresmedia risk map with its respective controls, Governance, designated officers and Risks and regulations Its scope goes Audit Comitee Compliance beyond the Compliance Model (GRC) System and crime prevention model because it also covers ICFR, among other matters. A corporate tool made available to all Group employees so that they can report breaches and 3. Tools / Systems Whistleblowing risks in the following fields: Regulatory Compliance channel criminal liability, Compliance Committee Model, ICFR weaknesses, discrimination, workplace or sexual harassment, and queries about the Model This online website handles acceptance of terms and conditions by persons subject to the Internal Code of Conduct on Matters Relating to Securities Markets; the Regulatory Compliance Insider website list of insiders having access Committee to insider information; registration of the required details on insiders and their related parties; and disclosure of transactions concluded by insiders with Company shares. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 107 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.1. To shareholders 7.1.1. Share performance Because media groups tend to rely heavily on advertising revenue, their stock market performance has traditionally been pegged to economic growth, as this influences the investment decisions of advertisers. In 2017, a year in which growth projections have been systemically upgraded, we witnessed an unusual phenomenon: while household consumption increased, certain sectors actually lowered their advertising expenditure by nearly 10%. Although Spanish GDP growth was up 3.1% and the total advertising market gained 2.3% in 2017, the television market failed to make it past 1% growth. This difference is because certain industries, typically very active in the advertising markets, pared back their spending during the year. A prime example here is the mass consumption market, which accounts for nearly 30% of the total advertising market. Atresmedia’s share price gained 14% in early 2017, well above the 4% growth in advertising investment that would explain the correlation. Come April, however, investment dipped sharply by some 16%. This had a significant impact on the Company’s market performance in the second quarter, leading to a 14% correction in its share price. Since then, the advertising market has continued to fall, bringing with it the price of the Atresmedia’s share, which ended the year down 16.3%. The Company’s main competitor, Mediaset España, turned in a similar performance, with its share price sliding 16.1% to close out the year at 9.359 euros per share, a far cry from the gains reported by Spain’s blue-chip Ibex 35 stock index, which added 7.4% in the year. It was much the same story for other listed media companies operating in Europe (with the exception of French television broadcasters), bringing the average drop in share prices across the sector to 5.9%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 108 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION The Company’s main competitor, Mediaset España, turned in a similar performance, with its share price sliding 16.1% in 2017, a far cry from the gains reported by Spain’s blue-chip IBEX 35 stock index, which added 7.4% in the year. TV sector shares evolution in 2017: -5.9% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% (10%) (20%) (30%) (40%) 30 Dec 30 Jan 28 Feb 31 Mar 30 Apr 31 May 30 Jun 31 Jul 31 Augt 30 Sep 31 Oct 30 Nov Atresmedia MS España Mediaset M6 TF1 ITV Pro7 RTL -16.3% -16.1% -21.4% 21.9% 30.0% -19.8% -21.6% -3.8% The 25 analysts that follow Atresmedia’s share price all downgraded their target price projections to 10.33 euros at 31 December, still some way off the 8.7 euros finally reported at year-end. Atresmedia’s average target price drifted up and down throughout 2017 as the business outlook steadily deteriorated, climbing from 11.88 euros in January to 12.30 euros as market conditions improved and then dipping to 10.33 euros at 31 December. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 109 | Key figures 2016 2017 Share capital at year-end (thousands of euros) 169,299.60 169,299.60 Number of shares at year-end 225,732,800 225,732,800 Capitalisation at year-end (millions of euros) 2,345.36 1,963.88 Share price at 31/12 (euros/share) 10.39 8.70 High (euros/share) 11.72 11.95 Low (euros/share) 7.73 8.17 Weighted average price (euros/share) 9.75 9.59 Average trading volume (no. shares) 599,335 378,494 Average trading volume (thousands of euros) 5,843.52 3,629.76 Price-earnings ratio 18.16 13.83 Payout (%) 82.5% 82.5% Dividend per share 0.47 0.52 Earnings per share 0.57 0.63 (1) The payout is calculated using the ordinary dividend (€ 0.22 paid in 2017 + € 0.30 payable in 2018). An extra dividend of € 0.45 / share was also paid out in 2017. 7.1.2. Shareholder return Since Atresmedia was admitted to trading, the Company’s dividend policy has remained extremely stable, with the Company returning at least 80% of its reported net profit to shareholders. In 2017, shareholders received three dividends: 21/06 13/12 21/12 Extra dividend charged Dividend charged to Extra dividend charged to 2016 profit 2017 profit to reserves € 0.25 / share € 0.22 / share € 0.45 / share The total shareholder return during the year came to € 0.92 per share. While the share price fell during the year, the dividend yield (dividend per share/ share price) stood at 10%, or 9.20% of the average share price in the year. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 110 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.1.3. Financial results € 1,052 M € 202.14 M € 142.11 M Gross operating Revenue Profit income (+3% vs. 2016) (+10% vs. 2016) (+0.1% vs. 2016) 983.97 68.11 Advertising Other revenue (+2.2% vs. 2016) (+16.36% vs. 2016) 2015 2016 2017 Revenue (in millions of euros) 970.2 1,021.1 1,052.1 Gross operating income (in millions of euros) 165.7 202.0 202.14 Net profit (in millions of euros) 99.2 129.1 142.1 Economic value generated (in millions of euros) – 1,003.15 1,021.53 Economic value distributed (in millions of euros) 698.1 738.7 872.7 Revenue at Atresmedia totalled 1,052.1 million euros in 2017, up 3.0% on the 1,021.1 million euros reported in 2016. Gross operating income was 202.1 million euros, roughly on par with 2016, while consolidated profit came to 142.1 million euros, up 13.0 million euros year on year (+10%), all down to stable advertising revenue and growth in non-advertising revenue (+72.1% year on year). 2016 2017 Change Television revenue 909.5 917.9 0.9% Radio revenue 82.2 83.5 1.7% Other revenue 29.4 50.6 72.1% EBITDA Television 169.4 171.7 1.3% EBITDA Radio 19.7 17.1 -13.3% EBITDA Other activities 12.9 13.4 3.9% EBITDA margin 19.80% 19.20% According to Infoadex, investment in advertising through traditional media channels from January through to December 2017 was up 2.3% year on year. Television gained 1.0%, while radio and Internet added 1.7% and 10.0%, respectively. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 111 | Goodwill is an intangible asset that shows the extra value of a business based on its future performance and outlook. Atresmedia’s goodwill climbed from 150 million euros in 2016 to 163.2 million euros in 2017 following the acquisition of Smartclip and its subsidiary companies in 2017. Economic value distributed by Atresmedia in 2017 came to 872.68 million euros (738.7 million euros in 2016), as shown below: Economic value distributed Payments to governments 56,708 (6%) Staff costsl 133,282 (15%) Programme consumption and other supplies 475,618 (55%) Dividend payments 206,946 (24%) Donations 127 (0%) Atresmedia invested a total of 62.1 million euros in 2017. The Group’s net financial debt amounted to 239.6 million euros in 2017, versus 178.6 million euros at December 2016, while its net debt/EBITDA ratio was 1.2x. 2017 2016 Net financial debt (€ thousand) 239.6 178.6 Net debt/EBITDA 1.2x 0.9x The main changes in Atresmedia’s cash flow statement between 2016 and 2017 were as follows. Millions of euros 2017 2016 Profit/(loss) before tax 176.6 174.7 Net cash flows from operating activities 209.8 127.4 Investments -62.1 -50.6 Disposals 0.1 3.2 Net cash flows from investing activities -62.0 -47.4 Net cash flows from financing activities -130.3 -79.5 Net increase/(decrease) in cash 17.4 0.5 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 112 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.1.4. Transparency Not content with simply honouring its minimum legal obligations, Atresmedia went one step further in 2015 by devising an analyst and investor communication policy in response to recommendation number 4 of the Code of Good Governance of Listed Companies released by the Spanish CNMV (securities market regulator) in February of that year. The recommendation calls on companies to draw up an internal policy that affords all shareholders equal treatment while helping to prevent market abuse. It also asks that the policy be posted on the company’s website. General principles of the Communication Policy with Shareholders and Investors Continuity and integrity of the information, including any issue which is specially 1 significant for the shareholders, investors, financial intermediaries and the markets in general. 2 Equal treatment to all shareholders 3 Fostering dialogue with shareholders and investors 4 Getting the Board of Directors and Communication department involved with shareholders and investors 5 Transparency vis-à-vis the financial markets Compliance with the applicable legal rules, especially those concerning market abuse, 6 significant events or insider information, in accordance with the Stock Market regulations in force 7.1.5. Investor and shareholder relations The communication policy sets out the following communication channels, which are available to both analysts and investors: • CNMV • Corporate website (www.atresmediacorporacion.com) • Shareholder Office (oficinadelaccionista@atresmedia.com) • Investor Relations department (ir@atresmedia.com) In 2017, the Investor Relations department took part in 32 conferences and roadshows in London, Frankfurt, Geneva, Milan, New York, Boston, Montreal, Barcelona, Cascais, Bilbao and Paris. . On top of these travelling events, it remained in direct and permanent contact with analysts and investors by arranging meetings, breakfasts and telephone chats. All in all, the department was in contact with the financial community on over 800 occasions during the year. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 113 | To raise awareness of the Group’s business model and unlock the value of its business, Atresmedia regularly stages events for analysts and investors. At these events, the head of one or other of the Company’s divisions or departments discusses the main business variables and responds to questions and doubts raised by those in attendance. The most popular subjects of discussion with the financial community include: Although monthly market data does not qualify as official data, Atresmedia still checks the data for signs of changing trends and patterns within the media sector. Official data are published Performance of the quarterly and are provided by two main external sources: advertising market for both Infoadex and Arce. television and other media In early 2017, the market is offered advertising growth (month to month, and “guidance” for the period. However, visibility remains extremely outlook for 2018) poor, at no more than two or three weeks. As the year progresses, quarterly data will gradually shed more light on the situation and growth guidance can be modified accordingly. The automotive, health and beverages sectors were consistently the biggest investors in advertising during 2017, as shown by the quarterly figures. Telecom companies, while buying slightly Quarterly performance of less advertising time in the first quarter, remained committed to investment in advertising by their campaigns during the following three quarters of the year. advertiser sector Meanwhile, the hygiene and beauty sector reversed the trend seen in the first three quarters (falling levels of investment) to close out the year with 1% growth. Consumption of audiovisual content on platforms other than traditional television has had a significant impact on linear television consumption. Nonetheless, market figures reveal that while live television is loosing minutes, non-linear television has Impact that new been rallying. technologies and new ways If television consumption drops, the format will lose audience of watching television are coverage. However, at Atresmedia the drop in coverage due to having on traditional TV lower television consumption has been offset by an increase in figures and relationship to advertising occupancy and in prices. On balance, investment investment in advertising in TV advertising has not been adversely affected in either absolute or relative terms. Television remains the most effective format and offers the best coverage when advertising products and brand names. While it is certainly true that the market penetration of pay Penetration of pay TV television has climbed from 23.1% to 34% in the last four years, and OTT. The Company's the share of the audience of pay channels has failed to surpass positioning in the digital 8%, whereas traditional television accounts for 92%, showing that world linear television coverage is still far higher than the coverage of OTT platforms. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 114 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.2. To our employees The Atresmedia Group knows full well that people management is what truly sets a company apart from its peers over time. This is achieved by reconciling and harmonising the Company’s own interests with those of its employees. Atresmedia has a Human Resources Policy in place that sets out the values, principles and commitments guiding and shaping the Group’s strategy when managing its human resources. The following objectives and actions show the success of these commitments: OBJECTIVES OF THE HUMAN ACTIONS SHOWING THE SUCCESS RESOURCES STRATEGY OF THE STRATEGY Guaranteeing quality employment 79.22% of contracts are permanent. Of Atresmedia’s total workforce, 49.55% are men and 50.45% Championing equality, diversity women –1,035 and 1,054, respectively–, while 43 individuals and reconciliation have some kind of disability. Training and enabling the professional development of its In 2017, a total of 641,473 euros was invested in training. workforce Making the Group’s know-how Consolidating the Atresmedia Formación model. available to future employees A total of 211 employees took part in the Group’s corporate Fostering corporate volunteering volunteering initiatives in 2017. Looking out for the health and A total of 1,338 hours of training in OHS were delivered safety of employees in 2017. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 115 | The following values underpin the human resources strategy at Atresmedia: PeopleWorking Team work CommunicaSense of oriented environment tion belonging that cultivates initiative The Randstad Employer Brand Research 2017 report has named Atresmedia the most appealing company to work at within the media group sector for the fifth straight year, revealing the soundness and success of its strategy. The same report also names the Company as the seventh most appealing company in Spain among all companies and ranks it number 1 within the stimulating work category. 7.2.1. The human team at Atresmedia In 2017, Atresmedia had a total headcount of 2,089 employees, with an average age of 42.32. The workforce is distributed among the different companies belonging to the Atresmedia Group, as shown below. Workforce distribution by gender 2017 and change vs. 2016 557 600 561 500 446 430 352 400 344 309 300 302 121 125 200 155 126 77 57 100 10 18 11 4 59 2 10 18 12 2 3 0 0 ia ing ias n V ria s V ia ne to er AU lip ed tis tic ció I3T xT ed Ci Fo ox tc m r da na re im Flo xS ar re s ve No n Ca nip lt re m At Ad Fu U Mu ni p S U Men 2017 Women 2017 2016 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 116 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION Distribution by job category and gender 1,395 1,333 251 249 295 290 148 150 21 127 66 84 731 664 625 708 168 83 165 84 115 180 168 122 Administrative Technicians Management Other Men 2017 Women 2017 Men 2016 Women 2016 Average employee age by Group company 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 ia ing ias ión V ria s V ia ne to er U lip ed tis tic ac I3T na xT ed Ci Fo ox SA ar tc s m ve r No nd Ca re t im Flo ex re Fu nip Mu l nip r S m At Ad U U 20 to 29 30 to 45 46 to 60 Over 60 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 117 | Average length of service at the Group was 12.53 years (12.2 years in 2016). Broken down by Group company, length of service was as follows: Average length of service Atresmedia Advertising Noticias Fundación Canarias Uniprex TV Multimedia Flooxer Uniprex SAU Smartclip I3TV Cine Foto Years 13.93 10.97 13.98 4.63 13.12 10.88 2.12 7.22 11.61 4.63 1.24 16.53 3.76 As a show of its commitment to diversity, Atresmedia employed 43 people with different kinds of disability in 2017 (42 in 2016) and also signed a collaboration agreement with Fundación Down Madrid, enabling people with Down Syndrome to find work at Atresmedia. The distribution of disabled individuals across the Group’s different companies was as follows: Disabled people Atresmedia Advertising Noticias Fundación Uniprex TV Multimedia Uniprex SAU Smartclip TOTAL I3TV No. of 4 4 2 1 1 3 3 25 0 43 people As part of the commitment enshrined in its Human Resources policy of providing quality employment, Atresmedia has signed permanent contracts of employment with 1,655 employees. In 2017, a total of 260 new hires took place across the different Group companies, as shown below. New hires Atresmedia Advertising Noticias Fundación Canarias Uniprex TV Multimedia Flooxer Uniprex SAU Smartclip TOTAL Cine No. of 38 39 44 1 4 57 6 1 2 50 18 260 people ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 118 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION In 2017, the voluntary employee turnover rate was 5.5%, slightly higher than in 2016. Voluntary turnover 5.3 5.5 2.7 2015 2016 2017 Of these new hires, 140 were women, who accounted for 53.85% of the total. In 2016, 48.2% of new hires went to female candidates. By type of contract, 79.22% of employees now have a permanent contract of employment, slightly down on the figure reported in previous years: 76.5% in 2016 and 78% in 2015. Distribution by Group company in 2017 was as follows: 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 ia ing as n V ias V ia ne to er AU lip ed tis ici ció I3T ar xT ed Ci Fo ox rtc sm r t a n re m Flo xS a re ve No nd Ca i p l t i re Sm At Ad Fu Un Mu nip U Permanent contracts Other ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 119 | 7.2.2. Employment relationships that benefit everyone (GRI 102-41) Atresmedia upholds the right of its workers to be represented, as shown by the 1,817 workers who are adhered to a collective bargaining agreement, as shown below. This figure means that 86.98% of workers are adhered to a collective agreement, somewhat higher than in 2016 (86.6%) and 2015 (85.5%). The distribution of employees party to a collective agreement by Group company in 2017 was as follows: Employees adhered to collective agreements Atresmedia Advertising Noticias Fundación Canarias Uniprex TV Multimedia Flooxer Uniprex SAU Smartclip TOTAL I3TV Cine Foto No. of 353 296 279 9 50 17 120 116 11 2 4 490 70 1,817 people One of the main milestones in 2017 was the signing of the Atresmedia Corporation Collective Bargaining Agreement, which not only governs remuneration but also matters relating to work-life balance, shorter, more compact working days in summer and other aspects such as: • Extending the flexible start time system: 09:00 to 10:30. • Reactivating the teleworking committee and bringing it outside the scope of the collective agreement. • Pilot testing at a number of management divisions in 2017. • Extending the arrangement to four days of paid leave following the death or serious illness of first-degree family members (with compassion also shown in the case of siblings) and to six days if the affected employee must travel. • •Workers with dependent children who have been found by the courts to be the victim of gender-based violence will be entitled to a reduction in their working hours of up to one hour a day over eighteen months, without this affecting their salary. 7.2.3. Training and professional development Training is part and parcel of the strategy pursued by Human Resources at Atresmedia. The two core objectives of the Company’s training strategy are firstly to develop and hone the talent of each person at the Group, and secondly to update and refresh knowledge and expertise so that Atresmedia employees are fully capable of carrying out their daily work at Atresmedia while keeping up with a changing sector and the challenges in store. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 120 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 2015 2016 2017 Training hours per employee 26.2 22.1 41.9 Employees trained 1,175 1,974 1,076 Investment in training 406,095 727,308 641,473 Hours of training/managers 60 47 60 Hours of training/technical staff 23 19 38 Hours of training/back office staff 18 17 33 Hours of training/other 17 16 37 Internships 340 410 468 In 2017, Atresmedia invested a total of 641,473 euros in training its workforce, giving an average of 596 euros for each of the 1,076 employees trained during the year. Group employees received an average of 41.9 hours of training, varying slightly by job category. Managers received an average of 60 hours, technical staff 38 hours, back office staff 33 hours and other categories 37 hours. In 2017, the number of training hours per employee climbed sharply due to the increase in the number of course delivered, with each trained employee receiving two or more training courses in the year. Investment in training (euros) 727,308 641,473 406,095 2015 2016 2017 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 121 | Training needs in 2017 were met through a total of 471 courses, 31 of which were new additions to the existing range of courses. These courses involved a total of 44,593 training hours (43,593 hours in 2016), distributed among the following knowledge areas: Training hours by subject 12,899 12,225 7,678 17,964 11,625 11,712 7,229 4,913 6,641 6,474 3,686 3,320 2,582 2,151 1,348 3,118 1,852 2,263 630 530 383 556 624 933 56 0 224 n r tio ills es ies ies fe ty ies lity he ica Sk uag log log sa olic abi Ot un ng hn o hn o nd lp ain m La c c a ria st m Te te lth to su Co w a Ed i d Ne He an R CS 2015 2016 2017 Average course satisfaction among employees exceeded 8.5/10 On top of its traditional training scheme, Atresmedia has organised a Masters in Audiovisual Business Administration in partnership with the EAE Business School, so as to give its employees the necessary knowledge of the environment in which they work. The second edition of this Masters programme ended in 2017, having trained a total of 100 Group employees. Meanwhile, Atresmedia trains its management team by focusing on management skills such as leadership, creative intelligence, intrapreneurial and innovative attitude, and digital skills. These face-to-face courses encourage executives from the different companies to interact, brainstorm and share their suggestions with Human Resources. A total of 166 executives took part in this training programme in 2017. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 122 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION Atresmedia Formación: developing existing talent while training future generations In addition to training its current workforce, Atresmedia is fully committed to the future of the sector and to training future generations of employees. Atresmedia Formación embodies the Company’s commitment to becoming the leader and benchmark within Spain when it comes to training in audiovisual subject matter and communication. The initiative, created in 2016, provides a whole suite of specialist training experiences tailored to the actual needs of audiovisual communication companies. Atresmedia Formación is intended for companies operating in the sector, as well as universities, foundations and any person looking to work in the audiovisuals sector. With over 400 courses, the training initiative is eminently practical, focusing on the most sought after skills within the sector, such as communication, digital marketing and new audiovisual technologies. To ensure a successful training experience, the trainers are all prominent professionals from the sector in their chosen subject. The catalogue of Atresmedia Formación extends to vocational training. Here, two new courses were launched in 2017: Production and Realisation together with the Vocational Training Institute of Grupo Planeta, and the postgraduate diploma in partnership with EAE Business School and Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. Moreover, Atresmedia Formación has partnership agreements in effect with Fundación Cajasol (Seville), Fundación Araguaney (Santiago de Compostela), Universidad Pontifica de Salamanca, Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid, INAEM in Aragón, Boomerang, Secuoya, AMC, the regional government of Castilla La Mancha and Semana. It is also near to concluding an agreement with SANOFI and the Galician Health Service. Project Th’nk: support for exciting new ideas Th’nk is an internal innovation group created by Atresmedia’s own employees and backed by the management. It is intended as a work space for those Atresmedia professionals we might call intrapreneurs, giving them inspiration and allowing them to communicate freely. The project turned five on 5 October and has the support of 80% of Group employees, who see it as an innovative ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 123 | and positive venture. In 2017, Th’nk developed its three lines of action through a range of different activities: Th’nk: intrapreneurship at Atresmedia Th’nk Inspira Th’nk Innova Th’nk Crea Motivational conferences Brainstorming contest to Driver of ideas generated and training delivered by turn employee creativity through Th’nk, which makes experts into innovation them a reality 300 participants 15 ideas short-listed 3 winning ideas The year marked the end of the Th’nk Innova competition, in which upwards of 400 employees contributed over 800 ideas. Judging the entries on their originality, scope, realisation, return and diversity, a panel comprising Atresmedia employees proceeded to short-list 15 innovative ideas and went on to name three winners. • Opportunities category: “Neox Discover”. Multimedia platform in which budding musicians play their own songs. • Efficiency category: “Nos movemos con el sol” (“Moving with the sun”) The idea behind this project is to replace Atresmedia’s existing vehicle fleet with electric cars. • People category: “Oportunidades al talento” (“Give talent a chance”) Under this innovative project, Atresmedia and its media partners can swap professionals with the aim of developing talent and learning other processes and business models. Th’nk Crea has promised to conduct a pilot test for all three winning entries. Atresmedia successfully implemented the “Oportunidades al talento” initiative in 2017 through a partnership agreement with RTL Group. The two projects in the category of Opportunities and Efficiency will be rolled out in 2018, along with the short-listed projects, which will be added to an ideas bank for possible implementation down the line. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 124 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.2.4. Committed to young talent Judging by the results of the Most Attractive Employers 2017 study, Atresmedia is the number one choice for university students when it comes to finding work in the Spanish media sector. Although the job market has picked up in recent months, Atresmedia remains firmly committed to employing young talent and providing job opportunities for students. A key initiative here is its hugely successful Internship Programme, which in 2017 offered placements to 468 students undergoing vocational training, or university or postgraduate studies. A total of 33 of these students were eventually offered jobs at the Company. A total of 33 talented young individuals were hired on completing their internship at Atresmedia. In 2017, Atresmedia continued its ongoing partnership with the Madrid Press Association (Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid, or APM for short) in two realms: the Internship Plan, and its support for the First Job Programme, which allows a degree holder registered with the APM to complete a one-year work placement at a Group company, such as Antena 3 Noticias or Onda Cero. Through training projects such as Proyecto Mañana and Atresmedia Formación, the Group has been raising levels of media literacy among the population by bringing media activity and knowledge closer to society. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 125 | Atresmedia has also been pursuing its Proyecto Mañana (Project Tomorrow) initiative in a bid to find young talent and make its programmes more innovative. The project places university students in contact with companies and is ultimately intended to champion research and investigation projects that seek to develop the creativity and talent of students in audiovisual communication. The working groups present their projects to Atresmedia’s management team, targeting all formats and platforms: television, radio and the Internet. They can earn a cash prize and also an internship at one of the Group’s divisions intended for students. In 2017, the prize went to a team of students pursuing a degree in Audiovisual Communication at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, who presented two projects consisting of a television contest and a docu-reality. 7.2.5. Internal communication Atresmedia knows full well that to reconcile the goals of the company and its employees it needs to ensure constant two-way dialogue with its employees. To achieve fluid and constructive dialogue with employees, Atresmedia has set up the following channels of communication: the onboarding manual, which is handed to all employees on joining the Group, the MASD3 digital magazine and the Corporate Intranet. MASD3 is Atresmedia’s monthly digital magazine. It is sent out to all Group employees in a bid to improve levels of engagement, inform them of the main milestones reached by the Company and showcase the results achieved by all departments and divisions. Over 20 professionals from different areas and fields of expertise contribute to MD3. MASD3 reported upwards of 3,000 single users in 2017 (3,103), with over 110,000 pages viewed (116,236) in the year. In April, the magazine celebrated its fifth anniversary with a special hard copy edition featuring the year’s biggest milestones. It also published its fiftieth edition in 2017. Atresmedia is currently developing its new Intranet, which is due to be launched in 2018. Representatives from all areas of the Group took part in co-creation events, which ultimately resulted in a brand new prototype for the tool. The aim is to make internal communication more agile and efficient, while making the platform a cornerstone of the Group’s new communication strategy. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 126 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.2.6. Employee benefits Atresmedia employees enjoy a number of additional benefits and in-kind remuneration to supplement their annual salary. For all For executives For Atresmedia For Atresmedia employees Flexible Radio Radio Life insurance remuneration plan Fund to help with Travel allowance (company car and school tuition when employees 100% of salary paid special training) fees and dental change work centre during medical leave Health insurance insurance Parking Canteen 7.2.7. Committed to equality, diversity and work-life balance Atresmedia signed an Equality Plan in 2014, which pursues the following objectives: • Ensuring equal treatment and equal opportunities • Improving the work-life balance of employees • Preventing harassment at the workplace • Support for pregnant workers and motherhood The equality measures envisaged in the Equality Plan were further enhanced in 2017 with the signing of a new collective bargaining agreement. For more information, see Employment relationships. The Equality Plan has its own committee, which meets regularly to monitor compliance and approve new actions to improve equality. Atresmedia’s commitment to equality is reflected in its workforce, which currently comprises 49.55% women and 50.45% men. The Group also has a special awareness of women who have been the victim of gender-based violence and attempts to employ them wherever possible by collaborating since 2015 with the Internship Programme of Fundación Integra. In 2017, Atresmedia offered three grants and unpaid work placements at the Company to support these women. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 127 | 7.2.8. Occupational health and safety Atresmedia’s Occupational Health and Safety Management System earned OHSAS 18001 assurance in 2017. The Group has two Health and Safety Committees; one at Atresmedia and the other at Uniprex. These committees have met four times and members are duly informed of all progress made (risk assessment, objectives and recruitments through temporary employment agencies). The following actions were undertaken in 2017 in furtherance of the Prevention Plan: • Assessment of occupational risks and ambient conditions at the various work centres. • Training and information on occupational risk prevention given to 739 individuals. • A total of 103 safety inspections of installations, studios and suppliers. • Investigations conducted of all 58 accidents (with and without medical leave) to have occurred during the year, as well as the seven incidents. The Department of Prevention and Medical Services is headed by Dr Bartolomé Beltrán, who in 2017 was awarded the Medal of Honour for his work in occupational health and safety. Meanwhile, the Atresmedia Group was handed the Escolástico Zaldívar Award by FRATERNIDAD MUPRESPA in the large companies category for its commitment to occupational risk prevention and for having shown that it has gone beyond its legal requirements and taken further steps to improve the health and safety of its workers. The division carried out the following actions in 2017: • Earning OHSAS 18001 assurance for its occupational health and safety management system. • Conducting a statutory audit of its occupational health and safety management system. • Staging the II Road Safety Week at Atresmedia. • Raising awareness of eye health through a specific company. • Training the Management Committee in the new Corporate Health and Safety Policy under the OHSAS 18001 standard. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 128 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION In 2017, there were a total of seven accidents involving medical leave. The employee absenteeism rate stood at 2.86 (ratio of medical leave due to occupational accident or temporary incapacity to total hours worked), while the ratio for non work-related illness was 2.72, the accident frequency ratio was 1.99 and the serious injury ratio was 0.06. 2015 2016 2017 No. of accidents involving medical leave 9 10 7 Employee absenteeism 2.53 2.42 2.86 Employee absenteeism for non work-related illness 2.46 2.36 2.72 Accident frequency rate 2.7 2.8 1.99 Serious accident frequency rate 0.06 0.05 0.06 7.3. To society Atresmedia is fully aware of the media’s impact on society. It therefore offers society its wealth of broadcasting expertise in a bid to change society for the better. This commitment is embodied in its General Corporate Responsibility Policy. The Group relies on its different channels and broadcasters to show interesting content that matters to society, while rolling out its own initiatives to bring about positive social changes and forging alliances with entities and NGOs so that together we can build a fairer and more equitable society. 7.3.1. Contribution to the SDGs The 17 Sustainable Development Goals approved by the United Nations in 2015 call on companies across the world to adopt measures to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity for all. Atresmedia is aware of the huge role companies have to play in accomplishing these crucial goals. It therefore uses its policies, initiatives and outreach to push towards the SDGs described below, in which the Group is confident it can have a particularly positive impact. On top of its commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, Atresmedia has been attached to the UN Global Compact Network Spain since 2008, as an expression of its commitment to the 10 principles enshrined in the framework, which include respect for human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 129 | SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • Raising exposure of pressing issues such as energy poverty on El Intermedio (laSexta) through interviews with those affected; on Mar de Plástico (Antena 3), which shows the situation facing immigrants on arriving in the town of Campoamargo; on Puente Viejo (Antena 3), with one episode addressing the community’s attempts to eradicate shanty towns; and on the programme ‘Eso que te ahorras’ (Antena 3), hosted by Pedro García Aguado, which offers useful tips and advice on how to manage your money. Volunteering • Corporate volunteering programmes in Uganda, focusing specially on children living at orphanages. Television content • laSexta Noticias offers a series of reports on the long-standing Operación Kilo campaign (food banks across all of Spain) in a bid to attract more volunteers. Radio content • Support for the food bank collection efforts (Algeciras). Volunteering • Corporate volunteering programmes at community soup kitchens and food collections. 1 2 3 1. International Volunteering in Uganda. 2. Volunteering in community soup kitchens and food collections. 3. Food and toys collection in Christmas. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 130 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • Reports on laSexta Noticias urging the authorities to install defibrillators in public places in order to save lives, as part of the Constantes y Vitales campaign. • ‘¿Qué comen nuestros hijos?’ (Antena 3), a programme hosted by chef Alberto Chicote that looks into the food our children eat in Spain. • Special investigations on Equipo de Investigación (laSexta), where the team explores the properties of dried fruits and nuts, raises awareness of the dangers of cocaine and the improper use of antibiotics, and investigates obesity and pseudotherapy). • laSexta Columna aired 2045: La muerte de la muerte, on research into serious diseases. • Agreement between El Hormiguero (Antena 3) and the Spanish Cystic Fibrosis Federation, reiterating the channel’s support for the Pablo Motos Annual Grant for research into the disease. • Fund-raising for Fundación Isabel Gemio (Onda Cero, Antena 3 and laSexta), focusing on rare diseases. Radio content • Onda Cero Cádiz invites the Spanish Blood Donors Association to the show every month. • One Friday a month, Ceuta en la Onda airs its Gente Corriente show, with the help and support of users of the Ceuta Mental Health Association. Corporate responsibility initiatives • Ponle Freno: initiative to reduce road accidents. • Objetivo Bienestar and Objetivo Bienestar Junior: initiative to promote healthy living habits. • Constantes y Vitales: initiative to promote medical research and raise awareness of health issues. Internal actions • Course on cardiopulmonary resuscitation and use of defibrillators given to nearly 200 Group employees. • II Road Safety Week, which aims to raise employee awareness of how medicine can affect their ability to drive. Partnerships • Agreement between laSexta and the Spanish Foundation for Science and Technology (Fundación Española para la Ciencia y la Tecnología, or FECYT) to showcase the research projects of the Precipita website, which was created to fund research and science outreach projects. Volunteering • Corporate volunteering actions to befriend and support the elderly. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation course for employees. Volunteering with elderly people. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 131 | SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • Campaign across all of Atresmedia’s television and radio channels to give recognition and visibility to teachers and educators. • Special episode of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta) addressing the phenomenon of the university bubble. • Stressing the importance of education through various plot lines on Puente Viejo and Amar es para siempre. Radio content • Special programmes to mark Book Day (Asturias). • Jerez en la Onda has partnerships in effect with various local cultural associations (El Arroyo, Amigos del Archivo, Ateneo Cultural andaluz, etc.). Fundación Atresmedia • Education is one of the strategic cornerstones of Fundación Atresmedia. Atresmedia Formación • Initiative to train future generations of the audiovisual media sector. Volunteering • Corporate volunteering action to support the Grandes Profes! event organised by Fundación Atresmedia. Grandes Profes! event 2017. Television content • Special episode of El Objetivo, hosted by Ana Pastor (laSexta), discussing equality between men and women. • Contra el silencio, an Antena 3 programme to raise awareness of gender-based violence. The show featured journalist Mónica Carrillo, who then hosted a debate following the show. The show was also broadcast by Nova. • Special coverage on Antena 3 Noticias of the “Me Too” movement to report on sexual assault in Hollywood. • Raising awareness of the fight against gender-based violence and the gender pay gap through various interviews on Espejo Público (Antena 3) and El Intermedio (laSexta). • laSexta Noticias joined the Una mujer (One woman) initiative, ensuring that all titles bore the motto Una mujer on 8 March. • Showing the struggle for gender equality in the 1960s in plot lines of Amar es para siempre • laSexta was the first channel in Spain to broadcast World Pride Madrid by arranging for a bus to follow the march. • Special episode on laSexta Columna titled ‘Homófobos: lo vuestro sí tiene cura’ (Homophobes: your affliction is curable), dedicated to the LGTBI community. • Special content on Flooxer: Muñecas and Marica tú, on issues that matter to the LGTBI community. Radio content • Onda Cero Alcalá supported Fundación Vicente Ferrer on occasion of the International Day of the Girl Child. Social corporate responsibility initiatives • Tolerancia Cero (Zero Tolerance) when it comes to male violence against women. The initiative also earned official recognition from the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality and from the Observatory against Domestic and Gender-based Violence. Internal actions • Second edition of the grants programme organised by Fundación Integra to help women who have been the victim of gender-based violence find work at Atresmedia. • Atresmedia is member of the network of companies for a society free from gender-based violence (initiative of the Ministry of Health, Equality and Social Affairs). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 132 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • La ruleta de la suerte (Antena 3) broadcast a special fundraising episode to improve water quality in Peru. Television content • Special episode by laSexta Columna titled ‘Sol: el impuesto que más calienta’, (The Sun: the tax that burns the hottest), which revealed the penalties for using solar energy in Spain. Corporate responsibility initiatives • Hazte Eco: environmental awareness initiative of the Neox channel, which broadcasts a fortnightly current affairs show on the world of renewable energies. Television content • Special episodes of El Objetivo (laSexta), on the technological revolution and its impact on employment; of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta), titled ‘Las Kellys: Las que limpian los hoteles’, drawing attention to the appalling working conditions in the hotel trade; and of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta), ‘Caza al Pasajero’ , on licenses for private vehicles to carry fare-paying passengers. • Exposure of various topical employment-related issues in Spain through interviews on Espejo Público (Antena 3). Corporate responsibility initiatives • Crea Cultura: initiative to uphold and protect intellectual property, recognise the work of creators and inventors and promote culture and talent. • creaCultura movement, intended as a tribute to those who create culture. The initiative consisted of various shows across the different channels of Atresmedia, plus an internal initiative for employees. Volunteering • Corporate volunteering action to help women with intellectual disabilities carry out their work. Awards and accolades • Atresmedia was named most desirable company to work at within the communication sector, according to the Randstad Employer Brand Research 2017 report, and the seventh most attractive of all Spanish companies. The Most Attractive Employers 2017 survey revealed that Atresmedia is the number one choice for university students when it comes to finding work in the media sector. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 133 | SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • Special episodes of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta) titled ‘Contrarreloj’, exploring the electronics trade in Spain, and ‘Made in Spain’, on the numerous industries now moving back to Spain from Asia. • Meanwhile, El Hormiguero (Antena 3) continues to focus on science and a whole section of the show is now given over to the subject. Radio content • In Más de uno, Juan Ramón Lucas interviewed Luis Pérez-Breva, director of MIT’s Applied Innovation programme, who stressed the importance of innovation in changing the world. Television content • Special episodes of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta), addressing the rental market bubble in Spain and ‘Pisos X’ , on rising levels of prostitution in residential neighbourhoods. • Flooxer broadcasts ON FOLOGüERS, an animated mini-series produced by Fundación ONCE in a bid to heighten awareness and bring some normality to the day-to-day lives of people with disabilities. Atresmedia has been supporting this initiative across all of its social networks. Radio content • Solidarity and support for children and teenagers at risk of social exclusion in partnership with the MIES Association (Albacete). • Support for the International Day of Disabled Persons in Cuenca on air with various associations from the city. Fundación Atresmedia • Organises the PRO Project; the first audiovisual school for people with disabilities. Partnerships • Collaboration agreement with Fundación Down Madrid, to train and improve the job prospects of people with intellectual disabilities. Volunteering • Corporate volunteering in the shape of toy collecting, helping to put on the charity dinner for destitute individuals and educational activities for children at risk of exclusion. Toys collection. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 134 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • Special episode of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta) titled ‘Turistificación’, showing how the rise in tourism is affecting cities, workers and the environment; a subject also addressed on a special episode titled Territorio guiri by Antena 3 Noticias. Radio content • Every Thursday, Valencia en la Onda invites a government representative from the city of Valencia, who responds to the concerns raised by inhabitants and hears their suggestions on how to improve the city. La llamada de los oyentes on Onda Cero Sevilla is also a radio space for collaborating with the local population and listening to their concerns. Partnerships • Atresmedia is the media partner of Sustainable Brands, which brings the business world and sustainability closer together. In 2017, it unveiled the Co-creating Cities initiative, which was covered on Antena 3, laSexta and Onda Cero. Television content • Special episode on the laSexta Columna titled ‘Rebelión en el consumo: Lo que las apps esconden’, alerting consumers to the threats posed by online consumer channels. Television content • ‘Vigilantes del planeta’ (laSexta), a documentary on the impact of climate change and possible solutions. • El Intermedio (laSexta) sent Gonzo to Vanuatu alongside Greenpeace to show the consequences of climate change. • Special episode of Salvados (laSexta) titled ‘Deshaciendo Doñana’. • Tu tiempo (Antena 3 Noticias) aired the micro-slot ‘Es tiempo de prevenir el fuego’, offering invaluable information on how to prevent forest fires. Radio content • Más de uno staged various interviews on the subject of climate change with prominent figures such as Marten Scheffer, winner of the BBVA award for Ecology and Conservation Biology; Elvira Jiménez, head of Greenpeace’s oceans campaign; Miguel Rodilla, biologist at the Polytechnic University of Valencia; and Roberto Brasero, who presented his book ‘La influencia silenciosa’. • The Córdoba en la onda station collaborates with Guillermo Contreras from the Aire Limpio de Córdoba platform. Corporate responsibility initiatives • Hazte Eco: environmental awareness initiative of the Neox channel, which airs a fortnightly current affairs show on environmental protection. • Hazte Eco was added in 2017 to the IV RESPONSIBLE PLANET event. Internal actions • For its Hazte Eco Christmas special, Atresmedia changed the traditional Christmas tree for one made from plastic bottles recycled by its employees. Partnerships • Collaboration agreements with WWF, Greenpeace and Ecoembes. Volunteering • Corporate volunteering action to work at an organic vegetable garden alongside people with intellectual disabilities. Hazte Eco initiative in Christmas. Family volunteering in an orchard. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 135 | SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Television content • Special episode of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta) titled ‘La era del Plástico’, exploring our use of plastic. Television content • Special episode of Equipo de Investigación (laSexta) on the palm oil industry and its environmental impact. Radio content • Weekly slot with animal rescue centre and store Manada Feliz on Onda Cero Castellón to help prevent cruelty to animals. Television content • Special episode of La ruleta de la suerte (Antena 3) to raise funds for refugees. • laSexta Noticias joined ¡Venid ya!, a campaign in which over 50 organisations are lobbying the government to deliver on its promise to take in more than 17,000 refugees. • laSexta Noticias showed ‘Gaza: 10 años encerrados’, on the situation facing Palestinian citizens, and ‘El otro muro’, on the border situation between Guatemala and Mexico. • Exposure of the plight of refugees through various interviews on El Intermedio (laSexta). • Campaign titled ‘El personal sanitario vive Tiempos de Guerra’ to help the Red Cross raise awareness of the increasing number of attacks being perpetrated against patients and healthcare personnel and facilities in war zones. Radio content • In Más de uno, Carlos Alsina interviewed Agus Morales, author of the book ‘No somos refugiados’ (We are not refugees). • Onda Cero Cantabria airs a weekly show every Monday on the subject of immigration. Awards and accolades • El Objetivo, hosted by Ana Pastor, was the first team of Spanish journalists to be recognised in 2017 as a signatory of the principles endorsed by the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN), which insists that a set of requirements be met when checking and verifying public announcements by politicians or personalities. • On 8 May, Susanna Griso received the First Amendment Press Freedom Award in New York. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 136 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION SDG Atresmedia actions helping to accomplish the goal Involvement in forums Atresmedia is an active member and collaborator of the main sustainability forums and platforms, including: • Forética: in 2017, Atresmedia hosted and acted as media partner –for the third straight year– of the VII International Corporate Volunteering Week (‘Give&Gain’), organised by Forética. • Global Compact: in October, November and December of 2017, Atresmedia voluntarily broadcast across all its television channels, radio stations and online platforms the communication campaign of the UN Global Compact and Volunteering and Strategy with the hashtag #COMPANIES4SDGS. The aim was to raise public awareness of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations while calling on companies and citizens alike to make them a reality by 2030. • Fundación SERES: Atresmedia helped draw up a report titled ‘A vision of corporate social responsibility from the Board’. • Responsible Media Forum: Atresmedia helped draw up a report called ‘The future of responsible media’. Partnerships • Emergency Committee: Atresmedia joined this committee in 2017, which brings together six international NGOs to jointly tackle the public response to humanitarian crises. • International Cooperation: Atresmedia, together with NGO Cooperación Internacional, organised and broadcast the eleventh edition of Company Solidarity Day. • Fundación Atresmedia raises awareness into education alongside Samsung and Santillana. • Fundación Atresmedia heightens awareness of different disabilities in partnership with Fundación Randstad. • Atresmedia fights against gender-based violence along with Fundación Mutua Madrileña. • Atresmedia champions road safety and promotes medical investigation alongside Fundación AXA. Radio content • Onda Cero Bizkaia hands out annual prizes to worthy projects and valuable support from the community. Presentation of the International Volunteering week. Volunteers in the Company Solidarity Day. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 137 | 7.3.2. Awareness initiatives Atresmedia has been working for more than a decade on initiatives with a deep social impact from two fronts: raising social awareness thanks to its outreach as a media broadcaster; and action articulated through its six own projects, each of which aspires to solve a social problem or issue: road safety with Ponle Freno (2008); the environment with Hazte Eco (2010) (for more information, see Environmental awareness); a healthy life with Objetivo Bienestar (March 2014); defending cultural invention and intellectual property with Crea Cultura (September 2014); support for scientific research and preventive medicine and healthcare with Constantes y Vitales (October 2014); and fighting against gender-based violence alongside Tolerancia Cero (November 2015). Following the launch of Ponle Freno, every step we take is a reflection of Atresmedia’s commitment to society and the community: the aim is for every initiative of ours to bring about some kind of transformation, meaning real change that has a direct and positive impact on society. Atresmedia strongly believes that the media has the power to transform society for the better. This conviction was institutionalised in 2014, when the Group created Compromiso Atresmedia (Atresmedia Commitment), an umbrella platform under which the Group carries out all its corporate responsibility projects and showcases them through television, radio and its digital platforms. To ensure the Group practises what it preaches, all these initiatives are also reflected internally through actions to promote road safety, healthy habits and environmental awareness among Group employees. In 2017, Atresmedia’s television channels dedicated a total of 1,599 broadcasts to promoting and raising awareness of its Atresmedia Commitment brand. Together these showings attracted 34,053,000 viewers, covering 80% of the Spanish population. Antena 3 272 laSexta 421 Neox 171 SPOTS Nova 223 Mega 248 Atreseries 264 Total 1,599 Cumulative audience (thousands) 34,053 Coverage (%) 80 GRPs 836 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 138 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION Goal Focal points • Recommending safe driving practices and habits. Ponle Helping to save lives on the road • Promoting road safety education. Freno • Actively collaborating with all social agents involved in road safety. Raising the population’s awareness of the importance of leading a healthy life and spreading the idea that caring for one’s physical and emotional well-being Objetivo is key to enjoying good health and • Healthy diet -Remaining physical Bienestar an emotional balance. There is a also active -Maintaining a healthy mind. preventive health version for young children under the claim “Ideas para crecer sanos” (“Ideas for growing up healthy”). • Showing the value of researchers Under the claim “Trabajamos hoy por la • Helping to stop talent from leaving salud del futuro” (“Working today to be Constantes the country healthier tomorrow”), Atresmedia aims y vitales • Offering useful tips and advice on to support quality medical research and how society can help prevent illness preventive healthcare. and disease • Awareness initiatives Raising awareness of the value and Crea • Getting everyone involved in the worth of cultural creation and inventors Cultura world of culture to debate and and respect for intellectual property. discuss the matter openly • Social rejection of abusers • Alerting society to the dangers of everyday male chauvinism, which often goes ignored Tolerancia Raising awareness and encouraging • Educating children to help prevent Cero people to report gender-based violence. gender-based violence later in life • Stressing the importance among young people of enjoying healthy relationships based on trust No son un Raising awareness of the humanitarian crisis arising from attacks on patients, health objetivo workers and healthcare facilities in war zones. The situation is now critical as these (Spanish attacks have been on the increase in recent years. Red Cross) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 139 | 7.3.2.1. Ponle Freno in 2017 More information at http://compromiso. atresmedia.com/ponlefreno/ Antena 3 1,144 laSexta 890 Neox 568 SPOTS Nova 940 Mega 1,078 Atreseries 1,140 Total 5,760 Hours 39.40 Cumulative audience (thousands) 39,729 Coverage (%) 93.4% GRPs 3,694 Adverts broadcast 3,454 No. of news items posted online 448 No. of mentions on social network 3,650 pages No. of news items and mentions in 76 news and other programmes Web page views 1,240,664 In 2017, Ponle Freno continued with its traditional yearly events and initiatives, which included its awards and the PONLE FRENO race track. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 140 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION This year the IX Ponle Freno Awards went to nearly one hundred projects and ideas in the following categories: • Ponle Freno Citizen Award: Manuel Antiller (awarded posthumously). School bus driver who saved children’s lives while he suffered a heart attack. • AXA Award for Innovation and Development in Road Safety: automatic tyreinflation device developed by the University of La Rioja. • Ponle Freno Junior Award. Programme to provide safe and sustainable mobility called “Puente Genil EDUCA”, by the Town Council of Puente Genil (Córdoba). • Ponle Freno Award for Best Road Safety Action. Projects to raise awareness among young drivers: Trendy Driver and Crash Attack for Michelin. • Ponle Freno Award for Best Employee Road Safety Action: Transnational Road Safety Plan by GAS NATURAL FENOSA. Ponle Freno’s public charity runs have been running for nine years in Madrid and for four years in Vitoria. This year they were staged for the first time in Pontevedra, Palma de Mallorca and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. In 2017, the PONLE FRENO race track raised a total of 178,032.37 euros, all of which was used to support the victims of road accidents. Ponle Freno also took part in the I Forum to Promote Road Safety Education at the Spanish Congress of Deputies. The forum is organised and overseen by the Parliamentary Road Safety Committee. Meanwhile, a number of campaigns were rolled out to raise awareness of the effects of medicine on our ability to drive (Al volante ningún efecto es secundario); to make drivers more respectful of cyclists (Metro y Medio), to warn against the use of mobile phones while driving (¿Lo coges?); calling for the compulsory use of vehicle restraint systems for children; to improve safety during holiday periods when road traffic is at its peak; and to warn of the effects of alcohol and drugs when at the wheel. Atresmedia’s commitment to road safety also extends to employees. In 2017, the Group held its second Road Safety Education Week with the aim of training employees and raising their awareness of the issue. Other key actions in 2017 Conduce Seguro (Drive Safe) as a new slot on the Centímetros Cúbicos motoring show. Ponle Freno-AXA Road Safety Education Centre: launch of the II Report on Driving Habits in Spain. Launch of the Ponle Freno Mutting app. Special public awareness video on how to react when an ambulance needs to pass. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 141 | 7.3.2.2. Objetivo Bienestar in 2017 More information at http://compromiso.atresmedia.com/ objetivo-bienestar/ Antena 3 1,083 Nova 445 SPOTS Mega 585 Atreseries 607 Total 2,720 Hours 16.50 Cumulative audience (thousands) 36,780 Coverage (%) 87.3 GRPs 2,374 No. of mentions on social network 3,650 pages No. of news items posted online 265 Now in its fifth year, Objetivo Bienestar held its Coles Activos (Active Schools) awards in 2017, with prizes going to those schools that encourage their pupils to grow up healthy. The winners were: • First Prize: CEIP Cisneros, Santander (Cantabria) • Second Prize: Colegio Enrique Soler, Melilla • Third Prize: CEIP Claudio Sánchez Albornoz, Almansa (Albacete) and CEIP Benito Pérez Galdós, Miguelturra (Ciudad Real) Also in its fifth edition in 2017 was the Organised Walk in the Madrid Amusement Park, a family-oriented sporting event that is not only fun but healthy. As in previous years, the event enjoyed a big turnout, with thousands of people taking part. Meanwhile, Atresmedia Commitment was busy encouraging its employees to eat healthily by adding a special Objetivo Bienestar daily menu to the Company’s canteen service. Other key actions in 2017 Type 2 diabetes awareness campaign. Beneficios del Plátano (Benefits of Bananas) campaign. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 142 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.3.2.3. Constantes y Vitales in 2017 More information at http://compromiso. atresmedia.com/constantes-vitales/ For the third straight year, Constantes y Vitales, a joint initiative of laSexta and Fundación AXA, handed out its Constantes y Vitales Awards in 2017, which went to: • Award for the best preventive healthcare promotional campaign: La RochePosay / L’Orèal España for their ‘Skinchecker’ prevention and awareness campaign. • Award for the year’s best biomedical research project: Dr Marisol Soengas, of the National Centre for Oncological Research (Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Oncológicas, or CNIO) in Madrid, for her project titled “Whole-body imaging of lymphovascular niches identifies pre-metastatic roles of midkine”. • Award for Young Talent in Biomedical Research: Dr Arkaitz Carracedo Pérez, principal investigator at CIC bioGUNE Center for Cooperative Research in Biosciences in Bizkaia, for his research into the biology of cancer, and Dr. David Sancho Madrid, of Fundación Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, for his research in the field of immunology. This category awarded 100,000 euros ex aequo. • Scientific Career Award: Dr. Gabriela Morreale de Castro, scientist and chemist, for her numerous contributions in the field of endocrinology. In 2017, the initiative continued to lobby authorities to install defibrillators in public places and convinced Asturias, Madrid and Valencia to become cardiacprotected regions. It also signed a collaboration agreement with the Spanish Cardiology Society (Sociedad Española de Cardiología) and with the Spanish Red Cross (Cruz Roja) in a bid to make more regions cardiac-protected. Meanwhile, under the motto “Cosas que te dejan sin aliento” (“Things that leave you breathless”), Constantes y Vitales launched a campaign to raise awareness of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 143 | On occasion of World Cancer Day, Constantes y Vitales staged the ‘Presente y Futuro de la Investigación del Cáncer’ event (‘Present and Future of Cancer Research’), alongside Fundación Axa and Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Oncológicas (CNIO). The event featured a keynote address by Nobel Laureate in Medicine, Harald zur Hausen, under the title ‘Outlook for the prevention of cancer and chronic diseases’. laSexta 450 SPOTS Neox 263 Total 713 Hours 4.4 Cumulative audience (thousands) 28,660 Coverage (%) 67.4 GRPs 439 Adverts broadcast 400 No. of news items posted online 661 No. of mentions on social network 3,650 pages No. of news items and mentions in 53 laSexta news and other programmes No. of visits to the website 824,565 Other key actions in 2017 Hip fracture prevention campaign. Partnership agreement with Fundación Española para la Ciencia y la Tecnología to promote research projects via Precipita’s website (www.precipita.es). Campaign to prevent head and neck cancer. Increasing female representation in the field of science: nominating three women to the Expert Committee. Support for research on laSexta: the news and educational programmes shown by laSexta have showcased the work of Spanish scientists through special news coverage and raised awareness of numerous research and preventive medicine initiatives. Constantes y Vitales was named “Best Action in Communication” by Consejo Español de CRP (Spanish Council for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation). It was also voted “Social Healthcare Personality of the Year” at the Neuromadrid Awards and received a Gold Badge from Sociedad Española de Neumología y Cirugía Torácica (Spanish Society of Pneumology and Thoracic Surgery). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 144 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.3.2.4. Crea Cultura in 2017 More information at http://compromiso.atresmedia.com/creacultura/ In 2017, Crea Cultura continued to promote the Está en tu mano (It’s in your hands) campaign to raise awareness of the value and worth of cultural creation and respect for intellectual property. In January, it signed a partnership agreement with FNAC to promote cultural outreach through various actions and initiatives, including a series of seven music and film gatherings held at FNAC to talk about the music featuring in films in which Atresmedia has been involved. Meanwhile, the following three Crea Cultura Forums were held in 2017: • The ‘ghostbusters’ of digital piracy. Hunting down pirates who prey on the rightful creators and owners of films, music and books • Piracy at the cinema: how to protect a cultural industry at threat • Will blockchain save creators? Learn everything about what this fourth industrial revolution will mean for culture and the media To mark the occasion of Intellectual Property Day, a number of special bumpers were aired to pay tribute to inventors and an internal awareness action was carried out among Atresmedia employees. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 145 | Antena 3 59 laSexta 111 Neox 18 SPOTS Nova 53 Mega 53 Atreseries 60 Total 354 Hours 2 Cumulative audience (thousands) 23,528 Coverage (%) 55.3 GRPs 207 Web page views 28,500 No. of mentions on social network 743 pages No. of blog visits 30,450 No. of articles published 28 No. of tweets posted 1,170 No. of Twitter mentions 743 No. of Twitter Rts 2,340 Onda Cero 12 No. of times Antena 3 Noticias 18 covered laSexta 11 Other key actions in 2017 Graffiti competition to paint one of the walls of Atresmedia’s headquarters. Sponsor of the Foro Edita forum of the Editors Guild. Campaign on the responsible use of new technologies in cultural consumption. Involvement in the I Inter-University Debate Tournament for the region of Madrid. Support for the Ministry of Education’s No piratees tu futuro (Don’t pirate your future) campaign. Promoting the Leemos (Let’s read) child reading campaign by Fundación Telefónica and Fundación José Manuel Lara. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 146 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.3.2.5. Tolerancia Cero in 2017 More information at: http://compromiso. atresmedia.com/tolerancia-cero/ In 2017, Antena 3 Noticias and Fundación Mutua Madrileña joined forced on occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women to give new impetus to the Tolerancia Cero (Zero Tolerance) campaign. So far the initiative has focused on raising public awareness of four key concerns relating to domestic violence: social rejection of the abuser, everyday male chauvinism, educating children on how to maintain healthy relationships and launching the ‘Ya NO’ videoclip. Antena 3 245 Nova 198 SPOTS Mega 222 Atreseries 229 Total 894 Hours 5,1 Cumulative audience (thousands) 32,369 Coverage (%) 76.1 Actual GRPs 772 Adverts broadcast 420 No. of microsite news items 200 No. of mentions on social network 400 pages No. of reports and/or coverage on 70 news programmes % of the population acknowledging 86% the value of the initiative No. of bloggers who follow one or 10 other company milestone No. of well-known faces supporting 40 the cause Other key actions in 2017 Campaign to ensure social rejection of abusers. Campaign against common everyday expressions of male chauvinism. Child education to help prevent violent conduct down the line. Ya NO videoclip. The funds raised from videoclip downloads were given to Fundación Ana Bella, which provides support to female victims of gender-based violence. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 147 | 7.3.2.6. No son un objetivo (They are not a target) Antena 3 39 Nova 32 SPOTS Mega 32 Atreseries 39 Total 142 Hours 0.9 Cumulative audience (thousands) 18.957 Coverage (%) 44,6 GRPs 122 Atresmedia and the Spanish Red Cross joined forced in 2017 to raise awareness of the humanitarian crisis arising from attacks on patients, health workers and healthcare facilities in war zones. The situation is now critical as these attacks have been on the increase in recent years. Thanks to Antena 3 series Tiempos de Guerra, the campaign enjoyed considerable exposure and had a major social impact. 7.3.3. Accessibility One of the Group’s priority objectives under its Corporate Responsibility Policy is to ensure that its news and educational programmes and entertainment shows are responsibly produced and broadcast and made accessible to all of society. Atresmedia Televisión therefore makes sure that all viewers, including the hearingand visually-impaired, are able to access and enjoy all of its television content. In 2017, Atresmedia increased its investment in content accessibility by 2.7% in comparison with 2016. The laws of Spain, and more specifically the General Audiovisual Communication Act, protect the rights of the visuallyand hearing-impaired. The Act imposes a number of minimum obligations: subtitling content and including an audio description for at least two hours of broadcasts per week. Compliance is monitored and enforced by the National Markets and Competition Commission (CNMC). In its latest report, it praised the efforts being made by Atresmedia, which has been outperforming its peers in Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 148 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION When it comes to accessibility, Atresmedia is working on two fronts: subtitling, audio descriptions and traditional sign language, and the use of new online platforms to allow easier access to content. Atresmedia made the following content accessible to all audiences in 2017, by type of adaptation: 2015 2016 2017 Hours 26,054.8 36,155.9 37,285.5 Subtitling for the deaf Atresmedia Group % to 24 hours 78.65 80.18 82 Number of hours of sign language 717.5 997.3 1,032.5 Number of hours of audio description 910.4 1,255.3 1,401.8 Milestones in 2017 The news teams of Antena 3 and laSexta send the cue sheets to the live subtitling team as far in advance as possible, thus shortening the delay in the subtitle text appearing on screen and ultimately improving the quality of live subtitling. Subtitling of live programmes has been extended in the case of El Hormiguero 3.0, laSexta Noche and El Chiringuito de Jugones. The quality of subtitling for all live news and current affairs shows has been improved in order to make all public service events accessible to all viewers. Atresmedia offered over 600 hours of subtitled on-demand content in 2017 (available on its online platforms). 7.3.4. Child protection Atresmedia has undertaken to protect children from two different angles as part of its Corporate Responsibility Policy: • Producing and broadcasting responsible news and entertainment content so as to protect the most vulnerable audiences, notably children. • Promoting honest and ethical advertising that protects viewers, especially children. Responsible news content and entertainment Atresmedia Televisión has children strongly in mind when choosing what to broadcast on television. It has been a signatory to the Code for the SelfRegulation of Child-Oriented Television Content, a voluntary standard for companies wishing to make a difference. Atresmedia also sits on the code’s Joint Monitoring Committee, which sees to it that the code is followed. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 149 | The Self-Regulation Committee and the Joint Monitoring Committee analyse all complaints received every four months. In 2017, a total of 80 complaints were received against all the operators adhered to the code. Of these, two were upheld as constituting unsuitable content, although none of those was ever broadcast by Atresmedia. To ensure these commitments are applied throughout the entire content creation process and meet the required standards of quality and responsibility, Atresmedia has set up a Content Committee, a corporate Code of Conduct and a Code of Ethics for its news services. Turning to digital platforms, work continued in 2017 on improving the visibility of age classifications for content available on Atresplayer. A pilot project was also launched on Flooxer to identify content classified as being suitable for 18 and over and to make such content available only once the viewer has entered an age of 18 or above. A total of 1,611 hours of children’s programmes were broadcast in 2017, as shown below: 2016 2017 Neox Kidz 1,635 1,490 Neox Other Neox 41 118 laSexta Cine 5 3 Atreseries The Clone Wars 11 0 Total hours 1,692 1,611 Child-friendly advertising content Atresmedia Publicidad aims to offer advertising that is suitable for all ages, focusing in particular on younger audiences. In its Responsible Advertising Policy, Atresmedia Publicidad promises to take special care when placing advertising products on content aimed at young audiences and it independently markets time slots whose programmes are intended for children. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 150 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION The legally prescribed special watershed for the most vulnerable audiences is rigorously observed across all channels and has even been extended in certain cases, such as on the Neox channel. The Group has extended the special watershed on Neox, a channel that shows Neox Kidz children’s programmes. Meanwhile, for specialist children’s channel Neox Kidz, advertisers have a multiplatform environment with specific content suitable for children aged 0 to 11, in which they can insert age-appropriate advertising messages. Special watershed for ATRES AFINIDAD channels (LaSexta, Neox): Monday to Friday: from 08:00 to 09:00 and from 17:00 to 20:00 Weekends and public holidays: 09:00 to 12:00 noon On NEOX, children’s time slots are protected and the so-called pauta única approach (where all channels cut to adverts at the same time) is not applied 7.3.5. Social interest contents Through its Corporate Responsibility Policy, Atresmedia contributes towards social development and progress by raising public awareness of pressing issues and concerns. Atresmedia attempts not only to show society as it is, but to help bring about positive social change through the content it broadcasts. The objectives Keeping audiences duly informed of news Helping to raise awareness of social and other matters that affect them improvement actions Atresmedia Televisión, Radio and Digital Atresmedia Publicidad Covering events Showing special and issues of programmes on Supporting social projects by offering public and social worthy causes to advertising time interest support NGOs The means ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 151 | Both domestic and international events were widely covered in 2017 across the Group’s various channels as the Group seeks to inform and educate the population, and special news content was also broadcast outside of the standard programming. This additional programming was largely intended to cover major events and occurrences that merited special media exposure, such as the Asunta Basterra case, Catalonia’s bid for independence, the PSOE’s federal congress, the June vote of no confidence in Rajoy’s government, and the terrorist attacks that unfolded in Catalonia in August. As well as covering current events, Atresmedia’s television channels and radio stations also raise awareness and bring society closer to more widespread social issues. The main topics covered in 2017 are discussed in the sections on Awareness initiatives and Contribution to the SDGs. Supporting worthy causes and bringing them closer to society is also an integral part of Atresmedia’s remit as a media broadcaster. This commitment is embodied in two main lines of action: broadcasting special programmes to promote worthy causes and actions and giving free advertising slots to NGOs. Atresmedia also donated a total of 127,048 euros to NGOs in 2017, mainly through two of its most popular shows, namely Tu cara me suena and La ruleta de la suerte. Meanwhile, donations in kind (free advertising slots to promote the campaigns of non-profit organisations) brought in a total of 12,821,875 euros, which is the opportunity cost of broadcasting pro-bono advertising as opposed to paid advertising. A total of 26 NGOs benefited from these donations in 2017. Our advertisers’ community commitment Atresmedia Publicidad involves its advertisers in the Company’s different corporate responsibility initiatives, so that both the advertiser and Atresmedia are able to align their social and strategic values when it comes to CR by collaborating on these initiatives. The resulting synergies between Atresmedia and its advertisers give the initiatives added impact and make them sustainable, long-running initiatives that help transform society. Highlight collaborations in 2017 included: Ponle Freno Fundación Axa: in May 2013, this partnership gave rise to the Ponle Freno-AXA Road Safety Education Centre. Since its inception, the centre has published numerous reports on road accidents and driving habits and has launched various public awareness campaigns. The centre pursues the same goals as those set out on the Ponle Freno manifesto: ‘2020 Zero Victims’. Anfabra: Anfabra (Spanish Soft Drinks Association) and Ponle Freno are doing their bit to combat drowsiness at the wheel, one of the biggest causes of accidents. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 152 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION Contantes y Vitales Fundación Axa: among other key initiatives, the association has conceived the ‘Constantes y Vitales’ Awards for Biomedical Research and Preventive Healthcare. The awards have now been held on two occasions and seek to strengthen, showcase, support and improve the valuable research being undertaken by Spanish scientists, while rewarding preventive healthcare actions. Atresmedia and Fundación AXA have renewed their partnership and will continue working together through to 2020, making it an eight-year venture on the following two fronts: Ponle Freno and Constantes y Vitales. Tolerancia Cero Fundación Mutua Madrileña: Tolerancia Cero is the brainchild of Antena 3 Noticias and Fundación Mutua Madrileña and has been named an outstanding project by the Spanish Observatory against Domestic and Gender-based Violence. The alliance with Atresmedia is a product of the work that Fundación Mutua Madrileña has been undertaking on this subject since 2013, when it set up a specific unit tasked with combating gender-based violence and encouraging society to reject and outcast abusers. Grandes Profes Samsung: Samsung is firmly committed to education and views technology as a valuable tool for teaching and learning. Santillana: the publisher is helping people develop their potential through education, specifically education delivered by teachers. Objetivo Bienestar Arprocan: Arprocan and Objetivo Bienestar are encouraging the public to eat more fruit since recent evidence shows that fruit consumption is on the decline. Thanks to a joint campaign that provides useful advice and other actions, the public is being made aware of the myths, benefits and uses of one of the most widely recognised fruits in our country. 7.3.6. Corporate volunteering As part of its Human Resources strategy, Atresmedia has put an ambitious Corporate Volunteering Programme in place that envisions two main courses of action: • Active collaboration on programmes: through its Corporate Volunteering Programme, the Group offers workers the chance to take part in various initiatives. • Participation at forums and events: the programme aims to promote and encourage volunteering through the Company’s communication channels (television, radio and digital platforms), and by taking part in major forums such as Red Voluntare. In 2017, 211 Atresmedia workers took part in one or other activity under the corporate volunteering programme, providing 2,325 hours of support between them. Total investment in volunteering in 2017 amounted to 17,427 euros. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 153 | Number of participants Hours of volunteering 209 2,533 2,325 211 99 2,102 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Investment in volunteering (euros) Volunteering actions 17,427 15,864 16 13,612 15 14 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 The Company lent its support to the following causes: Environment 8% Decent work 8% Education Reducing poverty 17% 50% Health and well-being 17% As part of its drive to promote volunteering, Atresmedia joined forces with Spanish NGO Cooperación Internacional in staging the XI Corporate Solidarity Day in October 2017. The event was aimed at promoting corporate volunteering and raising awareness among the corporate world of the real problems and ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 154 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION issues facing society. The event brought together over 1,000 volunteers from 47 companies across ten Spanish cities. For the third straight year, Atresmedia has been the media partner of the VI edition of the international volunteering event known as “Give and Gain Day” organised by Forética, which featured upwards of 1,200 volunteers. Atresmedia also lent its support to the #Companies4sdgs initiative, driven by the Global Compact and Volunteering and Strategy, with the aim of getting employees, companies and society involved in the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Group has aligned its corporate volunteering strategy with the SDGs and has shown the campaign across all its channels, reaching some 60% of the population in 2017. Volunteering programmes at Atresmedia focused on the following areas in 2017: Volunteers Activity NGO Hours SDG Impact More than 1,500 teachers from all the autonomous communities 4-8 Support organising the ¡Grandes Fundación of Spain attended the ¡Grandes 13 78 16 Profes! event Atresmedia Profes! 2017 event. It became a 17 national trending topic while the event lasted. Santa María 1-2 Supporting the daily running of Josefa de Feeds over 700 destitute and low42 126 -3a soup kitchen Vallecas Soup income people a day 10 Kitchen Maintaining an organic 842 kilos of vegetables collected vegetable garden alongside Fundación Juan 10 and 290 m2of soil maintained, as 45 180 people with intellectual XXIII 11 well as classes on healthy habits, disabilities 13 inclusion of disabled people Befriending and supporting the Fundación 3Making 12 senior citizens at a care elderly, who are invited to visit Amigos de los 10 25 10 home feel less lonely the headquarters of Atresmedia Mayores Befriending and supporting the Fundación 3Making 10 senior citizens at a care elderly by organising a cultural Amigos de los 10 40 10 home feel less lonely trip Mayores ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 155 | Volunteers Activity NGO Hours SDG Impact Some 100 employees donated 20 Charity collection to give used Comparte y 19 13 boxes of toys to underprivileged toys a second life Recicla initiative 10 children Supporting the work of various 1-3 Daily care for 22 orphaned orphanages in Uganda and Babies Uganda 4 1,440 10 children from two orphanages helping the children 17 Organising leisure activities 4Caring for 12 children at risk of and educational workshops for Fundación Balia 1 15 10 exclusion children at risk of exclusion Supporting intellectually Fundación Alas 8Supporting 21 users in their disabled women at a food 5 20 Moratalaz 10 inclusive employment handling workshop Madrid Food Bank (Banco de 1-2 516 kg of food and 102 kg of toys Charity collection of food and Alimentos) and 6 16 -3collected to help combat poverty toys for Christmas the Spanish Red 10 (possible beneficiaries = 260,000) Cross (Cruz Roja) Supporting the Grand Food Banco de Sorting over 10,000 kilos 2-3 Collection of Banco de Alimentos de 30 120 of donated food (possible 10 Alimentos Madrid beneficiaries = 200,000) ‘Te invito a Cenar’ Providing service at a Christmas (Let me invite 2Serving a special dinner for 1,070 charity dinner for destitute 36 252 you to dinner) 10 destitute individuals people initiative ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 156 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.3.7. Fundación Atresmedia Fundación Atresmedia was conceived in 2005 with the aim of channelling the social aid and support of the Atresmedia Group into two causes: protecting children and helping disabled people lead more normal lives by placing the Group’s resources and capabilities at their disposal. Our Our Our MISSION is VISION is VALUES Looking after children Being the Spanish Transparency and young people in foundation with the Positive spirit situations of special greatest capacity for social mobilisation and Commitment need and creating public interest about their issues, making real changes in Empathy needs and interests, the issues that affect Efficiency relying for that on the children and young skills and resources of the people. Atresmedia Group Funding model The Atresmedia Group granted the foundation a total of 500,000 euros in 2017. Together with donations (132,956.69 euros) and other income (673,082.20 euros), this brought the foundation’s total budget to 1,306,038.89 euros for the year. The foundation does not receive any state subsidy or aid. It donated a total of 48,055 euros in 2017. Fundación Atresmedia received the following awards and accolades in 2017: • AENOA Award for Advancing Education • ConSalud.es Award for “Foundation of the Year” • Award from Fundación Corresponsables under the “Non-profit entities” category • First runner-up prize at the Súper Cuidadores Awards • Honourable Mention at the Best in Class (BIC) Awards ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 157 | Fundación Atresmedia, as an independent Group entity, has its own strategy based on three strategic courses of action. Humanising children’s hospitals Achievements Challenges Goal Actions in 2017 Challenges 2017 2017 2018 Helping to humanise • Canal FAN3, the first • Increasing the • Various • Launching children’s hospitals television channel number of actions to offer a tool for by: specially designed for hospitals at information and measuring • Informing children hospitalised children, which actions entertainment humanisation of the procedures is now shown in 147 and initiatives at 180 hospitals at children’s they undergo hospitals are carried out to • Holding hospitals. • Offering • 12 visits paid by famous over 175 centres Hospitalised • Open the entertainment to people to children’s from across all of Children’s Day celebration child patients hospitals, over 20 radio Spain along with 19 of the • Raising awareness workshops at hospitals, • Celebrating other entities Hospitalized among all the actions to encourage Hospitalised • Creating a Children to agents involved reading, drawing Children’s Day special taskforce other entities in paediatric contest, etc. by bringing and working interested in healthcare • Celebrating National together over 15 on a tool to supporting Hospitalised Children’s entities that work measure levels Day alongside 19 with children at of humanisation organisations hospitals at hospitals • Joint organiser of • Creating a the National Hospital taskforce to Optimista Awards measure levels of humanisation at children’s hospitals Normalising disability Achievements Challenges Goal Actions in 2017 Challenges 2017 2017 2018 Helping to normalise • Modifying the PRO • Awarding grants • Awarding nine • Staging disability within the Project, the first to disabled grants for disability audiovisual sector audiovisual academy students who are different courses awareness and in society in for the disabled, which pursuing studies (master’s, events at all general by granted nine grants to in 3D animation expert course the film and • Improving the help disabled individuals and related or vocational television training of pursue master’s subjects. training). festivals. disabled people. degrees, expert courses • Raising awareness • Holding • Widening the • Job placements and vocational training of disability awareness awareness within the in subjects relating to among the main events at Film campaings of audiovisual sector. 3D animation. agents and and Television disability • Raising awareness • Awareness campaign players involved Festivals, among the media in partnership with in the audiovisual production and society in Fundación Ranstad, sector. companies, etc. general. featuring a number of • Raising awareness • Launching disabled people who of disability across an awareness hold management society in general campaign in positions at different through a TV and December companies. radio campaign alongside • Awareness Days in that aims to Fundación cinema and TV festivals. normalise the Randstad. subject by making it less of an issue. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 158 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION Improving education Challenges Achievements Challenges Goal Actions in 2017 2017 2017 2018 • Helping to • ‘¡Grandes Profes!’ • Celebrating the • Celebrate the even • Making World improve levels event to inspire and to ‘¡Grandes Profes!’ Grandes Profes Teachers’ Day a of education honour our teachers. event 2017, with more than central feature by: recognising • ‘Grandes profes, and reach 1,500 1,700 teachers. of the Group’s the figure of Grandes iniciativas’ assistants. • 290 candidatures editorial the teacher, Awards to give • Improve the received for the content. boosting recognition to participation Grandes Iniciativas • Ellaboration Vocational innovative actions in in the ‘Grandes Awards. and Training and education. Profes, Grandes • Launching a presentation of bringing • ‘Discover Vocational Iniciativas’ event. monthly newsletter a report about education closer Training’ project to • New website and adding a new professional to society. increase exposure of sections on section on the situation in vocational training in ‘Discover website. Spain. Spain and improve Vocational • Raising awareness its perception among Training’. of the importance society in general. • Bringing of education education closer through 7 to society. messages on the television and online channels. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 159 | 7.4. To our advertisers Atresmedia’s business model relies on revenue received from advertisers. To ensure that brands enjoy a successful commercial campaign on Atresmedia, the Group remains true to its guiding principles by offering innovative solutions while looking into how to maximise the impact and profitability of their appearances on air. It also insists on a set of shared social responsibility principles that both the Group and the brands must respect when showing adverts across the various channels and stations. In 2017, Atresmedia reported an advertising cost-to-income ratio of 1.56 across its various distribution channels. The advertising cost-to-income ratio means the ratio between share of investment (market share) and share of audience. 7.4.1. Responsible advertising Atresmedia Publicidad aims to offer advertising that is suitable for all ages, focusing in particular on younger audiences, and that is also transparent, profitable and effective. This objective is embodied in the Company’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Code of Conduct. Managing quality To ensure that all commercial content aired by advertisers meets the quality and responsibility standards set by Atresmedia, the Group continues to improve its quality assurance process so as to achieve zero likelihood of error. Atresmedia Publicidad requests copy advice for the spots and, if the copy shows any sign of infringing Atresmedia’s responsible advertising principles, the advertiser concerned is made aware so it can then make the relevant changes and obtain a new copy that satisfies Atresmedia’s broadcasting requirements. In 2017, the Advertising and Continuity departments continued to refine the implementation of a final filter to ensure compliance with rules and standards. The system draws attention to the conditions raised by the copy advice and does not allow a campaign to be broadcast if negative copy advice is given. Copy advice was revised on a total of 1,257 occasions in 2017, while the number of legal consultations came to 132. Legal consultations occur when Atresmedia needs to discuss questions or doubts with the Legal Affairs department of Autocontrol in relation to the regulation or self-regulation of a piece of advertising content, or how it should be interpreted. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 160 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 2015 2016 2017 Copy advice reviewed 876 1.028 1.257 Legal consultations raised 150 124 132 While Atresmedia Publicidad goes to extreme lengths to prevent any type of incidents from arising in its television advertising, two cases were brought against it in 2017, involving five violations and 613,464 euros in fines for improper television advertising. No fines were received in relation to any other platform. 2015 2016 2017 Cases 5 3 2 Violations 14 6 5 Fines 565,976 421,900 613,464 One of the actions under way to foster responsible advertising is the move to extend the special watershed on Neox, a channel that shows Neox Kidz children’s programmes. Meanwhile, for specialist children’s channel Neox Kidz, advertisers have a multi-platform environment with specific content suitable for children aged 0 to 11, in which they can insert age-appropriate advertising messages. Atresmedia is fully compliant with the special watersheds in place across all the main channels. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 161 | 7.4.2. Return on investment Revenue from television advertising was up 1% year on year in 2017 to make it five straight years of growth. This positive trend is down to the efforts to maintain the price Atresmedia implemented a few years back; a strategy the other main operators appear to be following. The return on investment for advertisers was unquestionably one of the drivers pushing the Atresmedia Group forward in 2017 and is largely explained by the synergies among the different media formats marketed by the Group. During the year, 52.2% of the total investment in television advertising came from brands that rely on all three of the Group’s platforms when advertising their products. This “multimedia” advertisers segment also accounts for 46.5% of the Group’s Internet advertising revenue, and 47.5% of its revenue from radio advertising. For TV, multimedia advertisers represent 52.6% of the total. 52.6% 46.5% 47.5% of investment in of investment in online of investment in radio television formats ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 162 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.4.3. Innovation in advertising Innovation is one of the hallmarks of the Atresmedia Group and its driving force when keeping ahead of a television and advertising market in constant flux. Atresmedia Advertising continues to explore new and more efficient advertising tools and formats, while harnessing synergies with the Group’s other divisions, which also rely heavily on innovation to optimise distribution channels so they can offer advertisers the best multimedia product. AtresData Launched in 2016, the AtresData tool provides a 360º view of television viewers by offering valuable information on television audiences, consumption and product purchases, together with consumer behaviours and life styles. AtresData allows advertisers to plan their campaigns in view of commercial targets and buying behaviours, thus doubling the ROI (return on investment) of traditional TV campaigns and earning 26% more new buyers than what they would achieve using demographic targets. Since the first quarter of 2017, advertisers can use Cluster Atresmedia to align their advertising campaigns with their brand strategy. The tool centres the campaign on one of the five resulting “clusters” of consumers, which are grouped on the basis of their buying habits and attitude towards consumption and advertising. Motion control Atresmedia continued to innovate its telepromotions and sponsorships in 2017 by adding motion control technology. This innovative robotic system combines movement with augmented reality and gets around logistical problems such as getting large products onto television sets, or not having any physical elements with which to decorate the set. It even allows users to add aesthetic effects to displays and other resources. Skin full video Atresmedia has launched Skin Full Vídeo, a new highly visible and dynamic advertising format that instantly grabs the viewer’s attention. A full-screen video without sound is placed in the background of a web page. Thanks to its clever positioning and size, it tempts users to expand it and activate the audio track. This new format has reported excellent results among the advertisers of Atresmedia’s various sites. Contextual advertising Atresmedia has launched a range of contextual advertising services to increase the impact of its advertising slots. Using this format, all spots within an advertising block are related in some way to specific days or events. The association or linkage between the products being advertised and these days or events is strengthened further by broadcasting subject-specific bumpers leading into and closing out the advert break. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 163 | 7.4.4. Effectiveness and impact Atresmedia Publicidad is committed to its advertisers and helps ensure that their campaigns on Atresmedia have more of an impact than they would at other media groups. To achieve this goal, Atresmedia Publicidad invests in advertising research, resulting in its Principles of Effective Advertising. Commandments of Effective Advertising 1 Increased sales is always a product of increased brand penetration and new buyers. 2 Television advertising generates positive ROI for brands. 3 By targeting advertisers that are genuinely interested in its products, Atresmedia is able to secure new buyers and improve the performance and success of their campaigns. 4 Television is the most effective channel and offers the best return when it comes to brand awareness. 5 Regular investment in television in the long run not only increases brand awareness and advertising recall, but also purchase intention among consumers. 6 Creativity is a key factor in improving the recall of advertising campaigns, because it increases the likelihood that viewers will remember the ad after seeing it just once. 7 Special advertising is another key factor. 8 Prime positioning during ad breaks and simulcast exclusive ads also help to increase advertising effectiveness and impact. 9 The use of neuroscience techniques more than doubles the recall of campaigns. 10 Ensuring a proper distribution of contacts allows advertisers to double brand awareness. The Killer Deck report showed that television now reaches some 70% of a country’s population in a day, 90% in a week and virtually the entire population in a month. Given the amount of time we all spend watching TV, this format has become the most powerful of all advertising tools. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 164 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION Research results in 2017 Toluna Atresmedia Publicidad joined forces with Toluna in 2017, a leading technology company in the world of online market research and studies into the effectiveness of pre-roll video versus in-text video. Relying on online interviews, the study concluded that the pre-roll format is up to six times more effective than in-text video when it comes to brand recall. Collaboration with Tres14 Research Atresmedia has unveiled its Observatory of the Econometric Model for Effective Frequency on TV (MEFE Observatory). The observatory explores the numerous variables involved in an advertising campaign and analyses their impact on advertising penetration. It releases its findings once a year. For the fourth straight year, Atresmedia has drawn up its ROI-Map (ROI on multimedia campaigns) study to measure the effectiveness and return of various advertising formats in generating brand awareness. The study also shows how different format mixes can impact return on investment and recall, and suggests a perfect balance of formats to maximise brand awareness. Launched in 2017, the ROI-Map simulates the results of investing in a mix of different formats –based on the client’s specific needs– and reveals the ideal mix for improving their brand recall. More information at: http://roimap.atresmediapublicidad.com/. Atresmedia has developed the METRAC model to analyse visits to car dealerships, confirming that nearly three out of every ten people who visit a dealership to ask for more information on a particular model do so after having seen spots on television. The model shows that advertising has a direct impact on visits to dealerships and, therefore, on brand sales. 7.5. To our suppliers Atresmedia draws a distinction between suppliers of content and suppliers of other goods and services needed for its business. All of them, however, must comply with the same principles enshrined in Atresmedia’s Corporate Responsibility Policy by signing a clause that imposes certain obligations on the subject of environmental protection, human rights and content accessibility and diversity. All companies belonging to the Atresmedia Group employ the same procurement model. Atresmedia insists that all suppliers sign a corporate responsibility clause, ensuring that not only the Group but also all the business it generates indirectly respects its values, its commitments under the Corporate Responsibility Policy, and also the principles of equality, non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 165 | 7.5.1. Production companies Atresmedia Televisión hand picks and controls all the content it produces and broadcasts, thus ensuring that all of its products reflect the Group’s values and meet the expected standards of quality. The Content Committee sees to it that these values are observed across the entire content creation process and the Production Department reflects these commitments in the contracts signed with the producers that supply the content. In its dealings with producers, Atresmedia enforces strict compliance with applicable law on occupational risk prevention, sector-specific agreements and any other law or regulation that may apply, including the protection of human rights. In 2017, a total of 93 programmes were produced by a total of 24 production companies. Ten series were produced during the year, each by a different production company. Atresmedia also attempts to get its production companies involved in projects that have a social impact. In 2017, Atresmedia encouraged its production companies to make people with Down syndrome part of their workforce. This prompted production firm Secuoya to sign a collaboration agreement with Fundación Down Madrid to hire three people with Down syndrome. Meanwhile, employees of production company Boomerang took part in the “Vive su realidad” awareness event organised by Fundación Atresmedia to improve the job prospects of disabled people. Several of Atresmedia’s production partners also took part in the Atresmedia Formación. (Atresmedia Formación) project. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 166 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 7.5.2. Distributors Atresmedia acquires broadcasting rights for those products that are not produced exclusively for Atresmedia Televisión, including feature length films, TV movies, documentaries and entertainment shows produced by third parties. Atresmedia’s External Production Department manages and oversees relations with the distributors of this third-party audiovisual content. Due to the ongoing concentration of the international content distribution market, the number of distributors was down 8% in 2017, while proposals to award contracts were up by the same percentage, largely due to the consolidation of new channels Atreseries and Mega. The domestic market accounts for 43% of distribution companies and 54% of the 215 proposals to award contracts. The process of acquiring broadcasting rights is a cross-company affair involving the finance department, legal affairs, programming and internal audit. Applications are processed through the internal approvals system, which ensures process transparency and makes the terms of the contract visible internally. Externally produced content is viewed on the Atresplayer platform, allowing it to reach a wider and more diverse audience. Atresmedia works alongside content distributors to ensure the protection of intellectual property rights, employing standard security and encryption measures for audiovisual content through AES algorithms and DRM systems such as Widevine, Playready and Fairplay. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 167 | 7.5.3. Other suppliers of goods and services Procurement of the goods and services needed for the Atresmedia Group to carry on its business is centralised at the Procurement Department, which is purpose-built to provide service to all Group companies. The department has a Purchasing Committee, comprising the CEO, the Chief Audit Executive, the CFO and the Chief Control Officer, to provide a second layer of control over acquisitions considered significant in qualitative or quantitative terms (any acquisition exceeding 50,000 euros). The existence of a company-wide procurement policy and department ensures: Transparent Segregated Cost savings and negotiation process functions optimisation Environmental Social responsibility awareness of the of the chosen chosen suppliers suppliers In 2017, the department arranged a total of 60.85 million euros in purchases from 1,302 different suppliers. Of these, 93% were Spanish companies and 7% foreign, although the expenditure breakdown was slightly different: 89% relating to domestic suppliers and 11% for foreign suppliers. Of total purchasing, 75% came from Madrid, 17% from Catalonia and 3% from Andalusia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 168 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION 2016 2017 Spending on purchasing 59.49 60.85 Number of suppliers 1,245 1,302 % of national suppliers 93 93 % of purchases from national suppliers 91 89 The average supplier payment period in 2017 was 56 days. 7.6. To the environment Although its activities have only a limited environmental impact, Atresmedia has an Environmental Policy in place embodying its commitment to environmental protection. Atresmedia takes steps to ensure that its own activities have as little an impact as possible on the environment, but beyond that it also believes that it can help protect the environment by making society more aware of the issue and informing the public of the important role each of us plays in this process. Atresmedia therefore brings its considerable broadcasting outreach to bear across all of its communication channels. 2015 2016 2017 Investment in the environment (€) 111,481 120,495 140,082 Consumption of plain paper (kg) 27,566 26,813 25,275 Consumption of toner (units) 652 1,147 1,063 Consumption of heating oil (GJ) 18,742 18,436 16,861 Electricity consumption (GJ) 105,395 106,641 108,069 Gas consumption (GJ) 524 424 353 Petrol consumption for transport (GJ) 466 509 895 Diesel consumption for transport (GJ) 1,813 1,718 1,467 Note: the conversion factors used to convert units to GJ are shown in table A7.1 of the GHG Inventory Report published by MAPAMA and IDAE (Spanish Institute for Energy Diversification and Savings). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 169 | Atresmedia’s investment in environmental protection in 2017 came to 140,082 euros, broken down as follows: • 74,719 euros to improve the air conditioning system, yielding annual savings of 367,465 kWh • 43,350 euros to improve the heating system, yielding annual savings of 49,720 kWh • 16,296 euros on a new kitchen • 5,717 euros to install solar filters and polyurethane foam Environmental investing will generate energy savings of some 417,185 kWh a year. 7.6.1. Efficient use of resources and waste management Atresmedia is aware of the huge importance of using resources responsibly so as to ensure the sustainability of the environment. It therefore strives to minimise consumption and is careful to pick responsible suppliers. Use of materials By installing printers in communal areas of the building and raising employee awareness of the need to cut down on paper use, the Atresmedia Group has managed to cut consumption of its two main inputs. -5.73% -7.32% Plain paper consumed Toner consumed 100% recycled All the paper consumed (office and sanitary) has earned FSC or PEFC assurance. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 170 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION The Company insists that all toner waste be recycled: to be given a new cartridge, the user must present the spent one. All computer and IT material is removed and treated by an authorised waste management company and the proceeds obtained from reusing components in 2017 were donated to the DEBRA-Piel de Mariposa association. Consumption of light bulbs and fluorescent lighting increased in 2017 because the lighting at various construction areas that require 500 lux reached the end of its useful life in the year. All discarded material is recycled. Energy consumption After investing in a new kitchen and upgrading its heating and air conditioning systems, the Group reported a significant reduction in gas and fossil fuel consumption in 2017. Meanwhile, renewable energy sources accounted for 63% of all electricity consumed by Atresmedia in 2017. -9.18% -10.04% Fossil fuel Natural gas consumption consumption • Fuel consumed by Atresmedia vehicles was up 75.8% (petrol), due to the acquisition of 19 mobile units for Onda Cero, which run on petrol. These new vehicles are there to replace 15 older vehicles, the removal of which has led to a 14.6% reduction in diesel consumption. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 171 | • The slight increase in electricity consumption (1.33%) was prompted by the increase in television and radio production (due to the busy political agenda in Spain and Europe, among other factors), and by the higher average temperature for the year, which pushed up equipment cooling costs. 7.6.2. Reducing emissions Atresmedia prioritises rail transport ahead of air transport for all medium-haul journeys. Its other initiatives have also made significant progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions as shown below: Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions -7.22% -27.62% +1.34% Emissions from More trips abroad in Upgrades to heating electricity have fallen order to cover the systems from 0.21Kg of CO2/ Champions League kWh to 0.15 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 direct CO2 emissions (tCO2eq) 1,562 1,552 1,440 Scope 2 indirect CO2 emissions (tCO2eq) 3,513 6,221 4,503 Scope 3 indirect CO2 emissions (tCO2eq) 715 1,361 1,380 Carbon intensity stood at 0.7 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per employee for scope 1; 2.2 for scope 2 and 0.7 for scope 3. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 172 | 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION As well as monitoring its greenhouse gas emissions and complying with current regulations on emissions audits, Atresmedia is a firm believer in voluntary reviews and inspections in order to flag emissions of other pollutant gases. Due to the nature of Atresmedia’s business activities, these other emissions are not considered significant. Gas Emissions in 2017 Limit NOx 207 ppm 1,200 ppm SOx 215 mg/m3N 3,400mg/m3N CO 279 ppm 5,780 ppm Note 1: figures on emissions (scope 1) have been calculated using the final energy conversion ratios published by IDAE (for diesel and motor petrol) and the emission ratios provided in table A7.1 (for natural gas and diesel oils) and table A8.2 (for motor petrol) of the GHG Inventory Report. Figures on direct emissions of CO2, NOx, SOx and CO relate to the work centre at San Sebastián de los Reyes. Figures on other pollutant gases have been obtained from samples taken by ATISAE. Note 2: To obtain the data on indirect emissions from electricity consumption (scope 2), the annual information provided by IBERDROLA was used, referring to the source of the electricity supplied and the electric consumption produced. The energy supplied is 63 % renewable and 37 % non-renewable. Note 3: In or der to obtain the da ta on indirect emissions from air travel (scope 3) the calculation method used was the website http://carbon-calculator.org.uk/. Atresmedia’s commitment to combating climate change is reflected in its involvement in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which sees the Company releasing an annual report on climate change. In 2017, ATRESMEDIA earned a score of “C” from the CDP. 7.6.3. Environmental awareness Hazte Eco is a campaign associated with the NEOX channel. Conceived in 2010, it seeks to raise awareness of environmental issues by championing values that help protect the environment. The initiative aims to brings the public closer to pressing environmental concerns and helps viewers appreciate that their individual efforts add up. Through Hazte Eco, Atresmedia is taking the fight to one of the biggest problems facing humanity: climate change. Hazte Eco campaign laSexta 89 Showings Neox 299 Total 388 Hours 2.7 Total audience 20,872 Coverage (%) 49.1% GRPs 215 No. of news items posted online 866 No. of mentions on social network pages 3,650 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7. OUR CONTRIBUTION | 173 | In 2017, Hazte Eco took part in Greenpeace’s Save the Climate campaign by broadcasting a spot that calls on society to take action. Hazte Eco was also involved in the IV edition of Planeta Responsable (Responsible Planet), a pre-eminent forum for companies and experts committed to improving the planet through innovation, sustainability and corporate responsibility (CR). It did so by taking part in talks and in promoting the event on the various news programmes of the Atresmedia Group. Over the summer period, Hazte Eco showed an awareness campaign on Neox, alerting the public to the real threat of forest fires in our country. To provide further weight to the campaign, Atresmedia joined the Cartas desde el Bosque (Letters from the Forest) initiative via the Internet, social networks and through programmes such as Zapeando (laSexta). A further highlight for the year included Atresmedia’s collaboration in broadcasting the fourth edition of Comparte y Recicla (Share and Recycle) on both Nexo Kidz and Onda Cero. The toy collection programme has Fundación Crecer Jugando at the helm and at its heart the right of children to play, along with respect for the environment and responsible consumption. In 2017, more than 130 tonnes of toys were collected, 40% of which were recycled. Comparte y Recicla campaign Neox 141 SPOTS Total 141 Hours 0.9 Cumulative audience 5,954 Coverage (%) 14.0% GRPs 32 Toys (tonnes) 130 The programmes shown by Atresmedia also help raise social awareness of the importance of caring for the environment, embracing Sustainable Development Goals 6, 7, 14 and 15. For more information, see Contribution to the SDGs. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT | 175 | 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT 8.1. Boundaries and preparation process (GRI 102-46, 102-48, 102-49) This is now Atresmedia’s eleventh Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report, providing key information on the Company’s results and performance on matters relating to sustainability from a financial, social and environmental standpoint. This Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report has been drawn up in accordance with prevailing reporting requirements and practices, following the new standards of the Global Reporting Initiative and also the recommendations provided under the international framework for preparing integrated reports developed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Coverage and scope: for the first time in 2017, the report follows the new standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) released in the year. It has also been verified by an independent external organisation. This report has been drawn up in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option. The Group also relied on the Media Sector Disclosures Supplement of the GRI Guidelines G4, which have remained in effect following the entry into force of the new GRI Standards. The report covers the period running from 1 January 2017 through to 31 December 2017 and covers the business activities of the different Atresmedia companies (Atresmedia Televisión, Atresmedia Radio, Atresmedia Publicidad, Atresmedia Digital, Atresmedia Diversificación, Atresmedia Cine, Fundación Atresmedia and Smartclip Latam SL since its acquisition in late May). The information contained in the report has been obtained from a materiality assessment of the Group and no material content has been deliberately omitted. Any departures from the scope and coverage of the information are duly noted under the corresponding section of the report. Likewise, any changes to the formulas used to calculate the data included in the report have been duly reported. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 176 | 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT Materiality: the materiality of the content of this report has been determined from the in-house and external consultation process described under “Description of the materiality assessment”. All relevant material aspects have been analysed to identify how they relate to the specific content and indicators included in the new GRI G4 Standards. Atresmedia has selected those disclosures that truly respond to the interests of stakeholders and its own strategy. 8.2. GRI content index In accordance with the GRI Standards, Atresmedia has received confirmation from GRI that its disclosures are in line with the criteria of the Materiality Disclosures Service. External Standard Content Page assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organization profile 102-1 Name of the organization 1  102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 20 to 23 and 43 to 71  102-3 Location of headquarters 2  102-4 Location of operations 2  102-5 Ownership and legal form 28  102-6 Markets served 43 to 71  102-7 Scale of the organization 18  102-8 Information on employees and other workers 114 to 118  102-9 Supply chain 164 to 168  ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT | 177 | External Standard Content Page assurance 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 175  102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 95 to 99  102-12 External initiatives 58  102-13 Membership of associations 84, 128 and 136  Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 to 17  Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27 and 79  Governance 102-18 Governance structure 85  Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 102-20 90  and social topics 102-25 Conflicts of interest 90  Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 102-29 95 to 100  social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 95 to 100  Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 72  102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 119  102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 72 to 73  102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36 and 72 to 73  102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 37  Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 28  102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 37 to 39 and 175  102-47 List of material topics 37  102-48 Restatements of information 175  102-49 Changes in reporting 175  102-50 Reporting period 175  102-51 Date of most recent report 175  102-52 Reporting cycle 175  102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2  102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 175  ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 178 | 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT External Standard Content Page assurance 102-55 GRI content index 176 to 180  102-56 External assurance 181 to 182  Economic GRI 103: Mangement approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 110  103-2 The management approach and its components 110  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110  GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 110 to 111  201-4 Financial assistance received from government 81  GRI 103: Mangement approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 128  103-2 The management approach and its components 128  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 128  GRI 203: Indirect economic impact2016 25, 137 to 147, 151, 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported  156 and 172 to 173 GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 167 to 168  Social GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 117 to 118  GRI 103: Mangement approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 119  103-2 The management approach and its components 119  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 119  GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 120 to 121  Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 119 to 123  assistance programs ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT | 179 | External Standard Content Page assurance GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 114  103-2 The management approach and its components 114  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 114  GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 88 and 114 to 117  GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 164  103-2 The management approach and its components 164  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 164  GRI 414: Supplier social assesment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 164 and 167  (1) GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 148  103-2 The management approach and its components 148  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 148  GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 417-2 149, 160  information and labeling Environmental 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 and 168  GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 25 and 168 to 169  (2) GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 168 and 170 to 171  GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 25 and 171  305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 25 and 171  305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 25 and 171  305-4 GHG emissions intensity 171  ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 180 | 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT External Standard Content Page assurance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 164  103-2 The management approach and its components 164  103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 164  GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 164 and 167  (1) criteria Specific Sector Disclosures Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation 79 to 81 and 159 to G4-PR-M3  values and results obtained 160 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content G4-PR-M4 72 and 147 to 150  dissemination issues and results obtained Number and nature of responses relating to content G4-PR-M5 dissemination and informed decision making and accessibility, 149 and 159 to 160  and processes for addressing these responses G4-PR-M6 Methods to interact with audiences and results 72 to 73  Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy G4-PR-M7 73 and 124 to 125  skills development and results obtained  “Tick” Verified content. The independent limited assurance report can be found on pages 181 to 182 of this Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report. (1) Atresmedia only discloses qualitative data. (2) Only the data related to consumption of white paper has been verified. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT | 181 | 8.3. Independent external review ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 | 182 | 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 8. ABOUT THIS REPORT | 183 | ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017
