UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017-18 1|Page ABOUT REPORTING ORGANIZATION: JUBILANT LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED Jubilant Life Sciences Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘Jubilant’) is an integrated global pharmaceutical and life sciences company engaged in Pharmaceuticals, Life Science Ingredients and Drug Discovery Solutions. The Pharmaceuticals segment, through its wholly owned subsidiary Jubilant Pharma Limited, is engaged in manufacture and supply of APIs, Solid Dosage Formulations, Radiopharmaceuticals, Allergy Therapy Products and Contract Manufacturing of Sterile and Non-sterile products through 6 USFDA approved manufacturing facilities in India, USA and Canada and a network of over 50 Radiopharmacies in the US. The Life Science Ingredients segment, is engaged in Specialty Intermediates, Nutritional Products and Life Science Chemicals through 5 manufacturing facilities in India. The Drug Discovery Solutions segment, provides proprietary in-house innovation & collaborative research and partnership for outlicensing through 2 world class research centres in India. Jubilant Life Sciences Limited has a team of around 7,600 multicultural people across the globe and is committed to deliver value to its customers across over 100 countries. Jubilant is a public limited company, listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited & BSE Limited in India with a revenue of Rs. 75,578.1 million in FY 2017-18. As on March 31, 2018, the Company had 44 subsidiary companies. The Company has expanded the outreach in North America region by new acquisition. Jubilant through its subsidiary signed an asset purchase agreement with Triad Isotopes Inc. and its parent, Isotope Holdings, Inc. This is the second largest radiopharmacy network in the US with more than 50 pharmacies across more than 20 states. Jubilant has been recognised with several prestigious awards which bear testimony to its commitment towards operational excellence, innovation, corporate governance and social responsibility. Some of the recent awards are: • Most Consistent IR (Investor Relations) Practice in the country Award by IR Society – Received by Jubilant in June 2017. The award was presented by the IR Society of India in association with KPMG, Bloomberg and BSE. • FICCI Award for Efficiency in Energy Usage in Chemical Sector – Received by Gajraula unit in September 2017 • Recognition by CSR Journal for commendable work in the area of Health (Women Empowerment & Child Welfare) under CSR received by Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd • “Utthama Suraksha Puraskara” award from National Safety Council (NSC) Karnataka – Received by Nanjangud unit in September 2017 • Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd (LSI Business) has been awarded Responsible Care (RC) logo by ICC (Indian Chemical Council) during FY 2017-18. Jubilant’s continued focus on sustainability aims at improving stakeholders’ value through improved eco efficient use of capital and natural resources. Our Promise of Caring, Sharing and Growing is the essence of our activities that are directed towards sustainable growth. Jubilant’s approach to sustainable development focuses on the triple bottom line of Economic, Environment and Social performance. We are committed and working on various areas of energy conservation and climate change mitigation. Jubilant Life Sciences Limited has been publishing its sustainability report since 2003 following GRI guidelines and its principles. For this 16th Sustainability Report, we followed the GRI 2|Page Standards for the first time. Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. This reflects our commitment towards sustainable development and continued efforts directed towards protecting the environment wherever we operate. Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv.shah@jubl.com 3|Page VISION VALUES PROMISE Jubilant symbolizes positivity, dynamism, triumph and joy, all of which guide and shape the Group’s collective experiences and efforts. 4|Page STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND COMMITMENT SIGNED WITH UNGC Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv.shah@jubl.com 5|Page UNGC AND JUBILANT The twin goals of signing the UN Global Compact are: (i) Internalizing its Ten Principles within the Company’s Strategies, Policies and Operations; and (ii) Undertaking projects to advance the broader development goals of the UN, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals (earlier Millennium Development Goals). While Chapter One offers a general overview of what the ten principles are and how Jubilant as a responsible corporate citizen with its best practices has tried to comply with them, Chapter Two deals with Jubilant’s efforts towards achievement of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 6|Page CHAPTER ONE UNGC The Ten Principles The Global Compact asks its signatories to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Principle Statement Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 7|Page IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The ten principles of the Global Compact are clustered around four areas including human rights (1-2), labour (3-6), environment (7-9), and anti-corruption (10). This section delineates examples of how Jubilant has imbibed each principle in its true spirit: UNGC UNGC PRINCIPLE JUBILANT’S ENDEAVOURS PRINCIPLE NO. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should • Jubilant respects and follows universal support and respect declaration of human rights and fundamental the protection of freedom. The Company also complies with all internationally human rights related regulatory requirements of proclaimed human the land of incorporation of its businesses across rights the world. • These fundamental principles of human rights are embedded in Jubilant’s Code of Conduct and all employees are required to respect and follow these principles strictly. • The Company has formulated policies and systems to ensure protection of Human Rights of all concerned and these are defined in its Code of Conduct. These policies cover issues of Child Labour, Forced & Compulsory Labour, Non Discrimination, and Bribery & Corruption. The Company has made the Code of Conduct available to all employees through intranet and conducted training to improve awareness and implementation on ground. From FY 2013-14, the Company is conducting online training using an e-learning module on Human Rights Concept, Global and Indian Regulations & Framework. Last year the Code of Conduct was revisited and training on revised content was provided by HR team across locations. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should • At Jubilant, implementation and monitoring of make sure that they the aforesaid Human Rights policies and Code of are not complicit in Conduct lies on the Human Resource (HR) Head human rights abuses at each manufacturing location, reporting to the Corporate HR Head. HR Head oversees implementation of the human rights policies and takes responsibility of resolving any violations arising. 8|Page • Jubilant has a Whistle-blower Policy and a dedicated Ombudsman office for addressing directors and full time employees’ grievances in neutral and unbiased manner. A charter of the Ombudsman has been prepared and made available on the intranet portal of the Company. This Charter allows stakeholders including employees to voice their concerns and guide the Company to resolve issues efficiently. • Under this policy, the directors and employees can report any information which they believe reflects serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or violation of Code of Conduct in relation to the Company’s functioning. The Company has a dedicated email address which can only be accessed by the Ombudsman Office, for anonymous reporting. • The online portal (www.cwiportal.com) is another way of reporting concerns and maintaining complete anonymity of the whistleblower. • No cases of human rights violation and corruption were reported to the Ombudsman’s Office during the reporting period. • The Company has operations at various locations across India and North America. The Company supports local culture and heritage for the respective regions. There have been no violations involving rights of indigenous people or those related to human rights in Jubilant during this reporting period. • The Company aims towards protection of human rights and its policies are extended to its suppliers and service providers. The Company encourages its suppliers and service providers to adhere to Jubilant code of conduct covering prohibition of Child Labour, Forced & Compulsory Labour, Discrimination and others. • There have been no incidence recorded through formal organizational grievance mechanism 9|Page pertaining to human rights during this reporting period. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should • The Company never prohibits its employees to uphold the freedom form an association in accordance with the local of association and the laws applicable. effective recognition of the right to • The Company engages in open and continuous collective bargaining dialogue with the employee associations at its manufacturing sites. There are no operations where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining are at significant risk. • Trade Unions exist at three locations and Works Committee has been formed by the employees at one location in India. All arrangements with respect to collective bargaining and Trade Unions are as per applicable laws of the land. The entire workforce at Jubilant is represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. Health and safety topics are also included in the local formal agreements of the manufacturing facilities of the Company with trade unions. • In Indian operations, 564 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with Trade Unions and Works Committee. At the Montreal Unit, 179 employees were covered by Trade Unions/ Collective Bargaining Agreements as on March 31, 2018. • There has been no incidence recorded through formal organizational grievance mechanism pertaining to labour practices during this reporting period. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should • The Company respects the dignity of labour and uphold the denounces all forms of forced and compulsory elimination of all labour. The Company, therefore, ensures that its forms of forced and terms of employment are transparent and compulsory labour voluntary. 10 | P a g e • The Company encourages its suppliers and service providers to adhere to a ‘no forced and compulsory labour’ code. • The employees are free to quit work at any time after serving the requisite notice period as stipulated in the terms of appointment. • Minimum notice period varies for the staff depending on their position in the organisation. The minimum notice period followed for termination of permanent worker is 30 days and the same is mentioned in his appointment letter. In case of significant operational change that could substantially affect employment, the notice period and / or Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS) are determined as per the local regulation and direction by local regulatory body. • No incident of forced or compulsory labour at the suppliers’ end came to the Company’s notice during this reporting year. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should • The Company prohibits child labour in its uphold the effective business activities. In order to ensure this, every abolition of child prospective employee is required to submit a labour proof of age including contract employees. • Under the Code of Conduct, it is not permissible to employ child labour. In order to ensure this, in certain jurisdictions, every applicant is required to submit a proof of age. • The Company is committed to work in a proactive manner to eradicate child labour by actively contributing to the improvement of children’s social situation. To promote this, the Company encourages its Suppliers also to work towards a ‘no child-labour’ Code.” • There are regular internal and external audits to ensure achievement of this objective. • There were no cases of child labour reported within the organisation or came to the Company’s notice involving its suppliers. 11 | P a g e PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should • The Company is committed to ensuring that the uphold the workplace is free from all forms of elimination of discrimination. The Company’s Code prohibits discrimination in harassment of any kind on the basis of age, respect of nationality, race, caste, creed, religion or gender employment and and has a zero tolerance against sexual occupation harassment. • No discrimination is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance. This is also mentioned in the Business Code of Conduct of the Company. • Jubilant is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EoE) as there is no consideration of gender or any other indicators of diversity. • Members of the highest governing body, being the Board of Directors, are also selected on merits. • Jubilant is a signatory to the CII Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action that reconfirms the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society. • The Company follows the Principle of Equal Remuneration for Women and Men. Hence, there is no disparity in the salary based on gender. It provides equal salary to men and women for the same set of work. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should • To manage environmental issues arising out of support a Company’s operations is always at the focus of precautionary daily business activity. The management has approach to adopted international management systems and environmental implemented best available technologies to challenges control environmental issues arising out of its daily activity. • Environment, Occupational Health & Safety (EHS) Policy, Responsible Care Policy and the Climate Change Mitigation Policy set overall the direction of the Company’s commitment towards achieving environment performance excellence. 12 | P a g e In addition, the Company has also adopted and communicated Green Supply Chain Policy to its suppliers, expecting them to be sensitive towards the environment. During the year, the Company has received from Indian Chemical Council (ICC), RC logo for LSI business. • The Company sets environmental targets to monitor its environmental performance. The performance against these targets are reported to the Sustainability & CSR Committee and presented in the Corporate Sustainability Report. Chief Sustainability Officer is responsible for the Company’s overall Sustainability and EHS performance. Dedicated EHS teams at the Corporate Office and manufacturing facilities effectively manage the environmental aspects of the organisation. Environmental performance is reviewed regularly through internal and external audits. New projects are assessed for identifying any potential hazards related to environment, health and safety. The CEOs and the Sustainability & CSR Committee review the EHS performance on a half yearly basis along with sustainability performance. Sustainability related aspects are included in the induction training for all new employees. Employees are also provided technical training to support their work. EHS related Key Result Areas (KRAs) are also set for Company CEOs ensuring focus on EHS issues. • In order to track timely closure of environmental issues ‘Jagriti’an in-house developed software has been deployed for tracking environmental related observations and analysis. This helps us to identify and implement preventive measures. • The Company proactively makes investment for environmental protection and management. During the year, the Company incurred capital expenditure of Rs. 822.5 million for environmental pollution control and management measures in Indian operations. The Company has an automated compliance management and reporting system for managing compliances as a part of the precautionary approach to prevent any non-compliance. This system is web-based and is hosted on the intranet 13 | P a g e portal of the Company and covers all Indian offices and manufacturing locations of the Company. The status of statutory compliances is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Senior Management and Board of Directors of the Company. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should • Jubilant Life Sciences Limited aims to operate undertake initiatives through a low carbon footprint and actively to promote greater supports in mitigating the risk of climate change. environmental The commitment from the top management is responsibility visible in the form of climate change mitigation policy which aims to mitigate the risk of climate change through participatory and collaborative efforts. The Company sees cleaner production as a new market opportunity. The Company also monitors changes in regulation which may result in financial implication with respect to energy and other resources relevant to the Company’s business. • In FY 2017-18, the Business Excellence team of the Company took up 102 energy saving projects which led to an estimated savings of 224 TJ energy and reduction of 21326 tCO2e of GHG emission. Our Business Excellence team undertook more than 250 new projects on resource efficiency improvements, and the team also implemented more than 100 energy saving projects resulting in 224 TJ of energy savings and 21326 tCO2e emission reduction. • The Company is also monitoring and reporting its Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emission regularly. It is one of the few companies in India disclosing GHG emissions and taking voluntary reduction initiatives by participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which holds the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. • Aligning to India’s commitment on reduction of GHG emission as communicated in its INDC (Intended Nationally Determined Contribution) during COP21 (21st Conference of the Parties), the Company has set its own targets for GHG emission reduction. 14 | P a g e PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should • Being in the chemical sector, managing of wastes encourage the requires intensive use of environmentally sound development and technology for its handling and disposal. Waste diffusion of minimization, waste recovery & reuse and environmentally scientific disposal of waste are the three friendly technologies approaches adopted by Jubilant for all type of wastes, whether hazardous or non-hazardous. However in Jubilant, the focus is always on waste minimization. At Jubilant, the nonhazardous wastes are either recycled or reused by the third parties. Fly ash, metal scrap, plastic scrap, paper and wooden material scraps are a few major contributors of non-hazardous waste. Further, the products are packaged in bulk quantity which considerably reduces the Company’s consumption of packaging materials. Certain products are transported in tankers thus eliminating the use of packaging material and some products are sent in drums and carboys, which are reused wherever feasible. • For hazardous waste generated at facilities, the Company follows the following methods for its proper disposal depending on the nature of waste and local regulation: • Recycle and reuse through authorised third party • Co-processing at cement kiln • Secured land fill • Incineration (both solid and liquid) • The Company focuses on improving process energy efficiency, find alternate sources of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing the percentage of renewable energy in its overall energy portfolio. • Solar, bio-gas, biodiesel and biomass are the direct renewable energy sources used by the Company at present. The Company implemented roof top PV solar power system at its corporate office (45 kWp) at Noida and at another office (60 kWp) at Greater Noida, India during FY 2015-16. Out of the total direct energy consumption during the year, 3.74% was sourced from renewable energy sources including solar energy. 15 | P a g e ANTI-CORRUPTION AND PREVENTION OF BRIBERY PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should • Jubilant became a member of the UN Global work against Compact (UNGC) in 2010 with the aim of corruption in all its internalizing the 10 Global Compact Principles forms, including in the areas of human rights, labour, environment extortion and bribery and anti-corruption within its strategies, policies and operations. • Jubilant has a Policy on Bribery and Corruption which is stated in the Business Code of Conduct. The policy prohibits any personal payment or bribes by employees of the Company. • In terms of the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management, Directors and Senior Management must promptly disclose (to the Board of Directors in case of Directors and to the CCMD in case of Senior Management) if their personal interest interferes with the interest of the Company. Further, in terms of Regulation 26 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, the Directors and Senior Management are also required to confirm to CCMD on an annual basis, that they have not entered into material financial or commercial transaction, which could have potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large. These affirmations are placed before the Board. • Apart from ensuring honest and ethical conduct, the Code of Conduct of the Company also covers issues related to integrity, confidentiality, insider trading, dealings with outsiders, gifts & donations and action on violation of the code. The Company has made the Business Code of Conduct available to all employees through the intranet. • The Company has implemented a ‘Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading’ in the securities of the Company for observance by its Directors and Designated Persons. The said Code, inter alia, prohibits trading of securities of the Company by Directors and Designated 16 | P a g e Persons while in possession of the unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company. • In order to prevent and detect frauds and errors, perpetual internal audit activity is carried out by external & internal auditors. Action points and recommendations made by them are discussed and presented to Sub-Audit Committee and Audit Committee. • There have been no incidence recorded through formal organizational grievance mechanism pertaining to corruption during this reporting period. 17 | P a g e 18 | P a g e 19 | P a g e 20 | P a g e 21 | P a g e 22 | P a g e 23 | P a g e Sustainable Development Goals CHAPTER TWO On 1 January 2016, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development officially came into force. Over the next fifteen years, with these new Goals that universally apply to all, countries will mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. The SDGs, also known as Global Goals, build on the success of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and aim to go further to end all forms of poverty. The new Goals are unique in that they call for action by all countries, poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and address a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection. Jubilant very well understand this vision of the UN and wish to join hands with other corporate houses and local government agencies to contribute its own pie and want to be a partner of the great change UN wants to bring in to address basic needs of a major part of global population who are still left behind. From last year, we are co-relating our sustainability initiatives including community programs with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by UN and find another meaningful and visible purpose of doing business, purpose of becoming a partner in contributing to achieve global common goals, the SDGs. These SDGs will act as an impetus for our existing business and reinstate the foundation of our inclusive business model integrating the sustainability principles. Jubilant is partnering with its surrounding communities and has been working with them for a long time to bring progressive social change through its community development programs. Majority of its community programs are already aligned with some of the SDGs like alleviation of poverty & hunger, encourage good health & improve quality of education and others. Jubilant embeds sustainability in its business strategy to deliver substantial stakeholder value through innovative social development models that focus on four key pillars Education, Health, Livelihood and Social Entrepreneurship. The Company firmly believes that this approach drives us to achieve inclusive development. We put people and communities at the heart of our CSR initiatives. It is an essential part of Jubilant’s framework for sustainable development. All our initiatives are in line with the United Nation’s SDGs. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF) is a “not for profit” organization established in 2007 by Jubilant Bhartia Group to implement its Corporate Social Responsibility programs. Primary education, basic healthcare service and livelihood generation programs focused on improving the 24 | P a g e employability of women and local youth are the areas where the Company is focused and taking up well-structured long term community development programs through JBF. JBF, along with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has set up Food and Agriculture Centre of Excellence (FACE) to contribute to the ongoing policy dialogue related to agriculture and food security concerns. The Centre, through its integrated approach of action-oriented programs and capacity building, will address the issues from the farm gate to the consumer end. Alignment of our sustainability initiatives including Community programs with the SDGs has been provided in this chapter. The Sustainable Development Goals are: No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Well-Being Quality Education Gender Equality Clean Water and Sanitation Affordable and Clean Energy Decent Work and Economic Growth 25 | P a g e Industry Innovation and Infrastructure Reduced inequalities Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption and Production Climate Action Life below Water Life on Land Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Partnerships for the Goals 26 | P a g e JUBILANT’S SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES ALIGNING WITH THE SDGs Given below is the summary of initiatives taken by Jubilant towards each SDG during the year 2017-18: Goal 1: No Poverty The first goal of SDGs mention that poverty is more than lack of income or resourcesit includes lack of basic services, such as education, hunger, social discrimination and exclusion, and lack of participation in decision making. Jubilant, in cognizance of the importance of skill development in enhancing the employability of potential workforce, conducts skill development programs. The Vocational Training Centers (VTC) at 3 locations Gajraula, Nira and Nanjangud provide training on array of skill oriented trades like tailoring, soft skills, embroidery, paper quilling and jewelry making, etc. These VTCs are aimed at helping the trainees to find ‘vocation for life’ on successful completion. Number of youths trained under this programme in the surrounding community of Nanjangud, Gajraula and Nira plant are mentioned below: Locations No. of people trained in FY 2017-18 Nira 50 Gajraula 110 Nanjangud 1,117 Further, under the scheme of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKY), JBF at Gajraula has supported a training of 206 candidates for tailoring in the year 2017-18. In addition to the regular training program, this year, Jubilant initiated in association with HP, WoW (World on Wheel)computer literacy project via mobile bus at Roorkee, Gajraula, Bharuch and via static bus at Nira, with an objective of supporting Digital literacy in the rural areas. Goal 2: Zero Hunger End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture is the objective of this goal (SDG2). And as we know, poor nutrition is one of the major cause of death of children under the age of five years. In response to this major social problem, the Company is implementing integrated malnutrition project in 32 villages at Gajraula location in U.P. The project aims towards improving the nutritional status of children under the age of five years at select areas. The project focuses on behaviour change communication and creating a supporting environment to fight malnutrition. This year growth monitoring of target children was done through mobile based biometric enabled IT platform by the select women health guard (Swasthya Praharis) identified by JBF. This is followed by the grading of the target children as per their weight. The children falling in the first two grades are advised on improvement of diet and nutrition. The children in Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) category are recommended for Nutrition Rehabilitation Center (NRC), a Government health facility where SAM children are admitted and managed. In the FY 2017-18 a total of 8,817 children from the age of 0-5 years were tracked for growth monitoring under the malnutrition project. 27 | P a g e Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being This SDG aims at ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. The Company is able to contribute to this objective of ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages through its various health programs delineated below: Swasthya Prahari: A total of 1,904 pregnant ladies and new mothers were being consulted by the Swasthya Praharis at Gajraula with an objective of planning and monitoring birth rate, monitoring and reducing Infant Mortality Ratio (IMR) and monitoring and increasing Institutional delivery to reduce Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR). They are also working on the integrated malnutrition project of JBF. Community Health Services: JBF Medical Centre at Gajraula location provides health services to the patients as Outpatient Department (OPD), Day Care, Lab Tests, Directly Observed Treatment, Short course (DOTS) for Tuberculosis, Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC), X-Ray, etc. At other locations the basic healthcare services are provided to the community through mobile health units. The details of number of patients benefitted through various health services of Jubilant are as below: Location Health Services Patients benefitted Gajraula JBF Medical Centre 15,132 Gajraula Mobile Dispensary Service 5,668 Swasthya Prahari (Mother Gajraula and Child) 1,904 Gajraula Malnutrition 8,817 Bharuch Mobile Dispensary Service 13,400 Samlaya Mobile Dispensary Service 1,722 Nanjangud Mobile Dispensary Service 5,378 28 | P a g e Goal 4: Quality Education This goal is all about inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. The Project ‘Muskaan’ implemented by Jubilant aims at strengthening the rural government primary education system through enhanced quality of education. The same is ensured through the stipulated extra co-curricular activities in the rural schools like mass sapling plantation, drawing competition, storytelling competition, crafts day, essay completion, street playing competition, etc. The project aims at filling in the quality gaps in the already existing education system. FY 2017-18 key activity details are mentioned in the table below: Name of the Activity No. of Schools No. of students Har Aangan Mein Ped 60 4,700 Craft Day 46 3,844 Drawing Competition 10 178 Essay & Hand Writing 22 2,541 Competition General Knowledge Quiz 48 4,711 Independence Day 10 1,003 Celebration MathEMaze 11 1,367 Republic Day 18 2,096 Sala Pravesh Utasav 14 521 Speach/Reading/Poem 43 4,370 Recitation Sport's Event 14 841 Story Telling By The Senior 56 5,162 Citizen Theme Based Drawing 51 5,113 Competition International Yoga Day 15 1,494 Children's Day 2018 1 154 World Environment Day On 9 740 June 5, 2017 Summer Camp 1 50 Swachha Bharath Abhiyaan 9 874 School Chalo Abhiyaan Rally 1 122 School Dress Distribution At 1 233 School Inter School Science 10 67 Celebration Literacy Day 4 275 Jubilant Pratibha Purashkar 28 487 Goal 5: Gender Equality Jubilant support gender equality and strive to empower women and girls both at work place and through community initiatives. Jubilant strongly adheres by its policy of non-discrimination and aims at providing every one with equal access to health care, quality education, career and 29 | P a g e vocational guidance, employment, remuneration, occupational health and safety and social security, etc. There are projects which reflects Jubilant’s commitment to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Projects like the stitching centre at Nanjangud (operated by all women self-help group) and Swasthya Prahari (operated by Women Health Guards actively involved in health projects at Gajraula) are efforts towards attaining gender equality. Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation This goal deliberates on availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Jubilant is also working for the same in some of its project locations. The Company understand that with time portable water is becoming one of the scare resource across the globe and India is vulnerable to this problem. Company understand that we need to judiciously use our water resources surrounding our manufacturing sites and make this critical resource mutually convenient for both community and business. During FY 2017-18, the Company has installed more than 100 hand pumps for the community around Gajraula location for improving convenience of portable water to them. Also rain water harvesting structures have been constructed at 4 schools in Gajraula to recharge the local aquifer. This year the Company has further improved its performance in recycle and reuse of treated effluent in the manufacturing sites. Company is also evaluating options for other sources of water like treated sewage and surface water to further reduce its dependency on ground water. There is 21% increase in total treated effluent recycle reuse volume during this reporting period leading to 1.3% reduction in total fresh water usage at our manufacturing sites against previous year. The Company has also implemented 5 new rain water harvesting facilities this year to recharge ground water. Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy To achieve the global goal (SDG) of ‘Affordable & Clean Energy’ for all, industries can play a major role through judicious selection and use of energy to meet their energy demand. Jubilant is focused on improving energy efficiency and finding alternate sources of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing the percentage of renewable energy in its overall energy portfolio. Solar, bio-gas, biodiesel and biomass are the direct renewable energy sources used by the Company at present. The Company, through its Business Excellence team, has been able to implement several energy saving projects which have directly contributed towards reduction of energy consumption. During the FY 2017-18 the Company has implemented more than 100 energy saving projects that have directly contributed towards reduction of around 224 TJ of energy consumption which is equivalent to 21326 MT of CO2. In addition to this, the Company has taken several resource savings initiatives also at its manufacturing facilities. This year the Company implemented roof top PV solar power system at Bharuch manufacturing site (10 kWp) and Roof top solar heater at Roorkee to cater guest house requirements. This year, out of total direct energy consumption, 3.74% was sourced from renewable energy sources. Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Jubilant recognises the role of decent work environment in creating inclusive economic growth. Jubilant not only generates employment through its economic activities but also is sincere in nurturing conducive work environment to realise maximum human resource potential of its employees. Jubilant encourages its employees, both permanent and contract, to maintain good relations and constructive bargaining practices with the management. Local human resource personnel take care of the employee relations and interact with the employees and contractors 30 | P a g e about various services, measures and initiatives to assist them in creating and maintaining a sound work environment. Trade Unions exist at three locations and Works Committee with bargaining capabilities has been formed by the employees at one location in India. All arrangements with respect to collective bargaining and trade unions are as per applicable laws of the land. The entire workforce at Jubilant is represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. Health & safety topics are also included in the local formal agreements of the manufacturing facilities of the Company with trade unions. The Company engages in open and continuous dialogue with the employee associations at its manufacturing facilities. In India 564 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions and worker committee. At the Montreal manufacturing facility of the Company, 179 employees were covered by trade unions/ collective bargaining agreements as of March 31, 2018. There are no operations where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining are at significant risk. Jubilant respects and follows universal declaration of human rights and fundamental freedom. The Company also complies with all human rights related regulatory requirements of the land of incorporation of its business across the world. These fundamental principles of human rights are embedded in Jubilant’s Code of Conduct and all employees are required to respect and follow the same strictly. The Company is committed to its Sustainability Mission and is signatory to the UNGC Principles with human rights commitments. The Company has formulated policies and systems to ensure protection of Human Rights of all concerned and these are defined in the Code of Conduct of Jubilant. These policies cover issues of Child Labour, Forced and Compulsory Labour, Non Discrimination, Bribery and Corruption. The Company has made the Code of Conduct available to all employees through intranet portal of the Company and conducts training to improve awareness and implementation on ground. For further details, please refer the ‘People’ section of our Sustainability Report for FY 2017-18 Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure The Company is operating through multiple locations and thereby contributes to the development of the respective local areas by providing employment, developing basic infrastructure, etc. The Company recruits employees based on their skills and merit. Local employees are preferred when they meet the specific role set by the Company. Employee salaries are always higher than the minimum wages mandated by the local regulations. The Company sources its material, machinery, spares, stores, etc. from across the globe without compromising on quality and value. Preference is given to the local suppliers if they satisfy the requisite specifications. In monetary terms, 18.56% of the material was sourced domestically whereas 81.44% was sourced from other countries for Indian operations in FY 2017-18. Innovation, speed-to-market and a robust product pipeline are critical factors in ensuring success for an integrated global pharmaceutical and life sciences company. R&D set up continuously works on cost reduction of existing products and development of new products. In our Pharmaceuticals segment, the R&D team focuses on generics research including APIs, Solid Dosage Formulations and Radiopharmaceuticals. R&D supports the activities of various businesses through new product and process development, process intensification, absorption of technologies and establishing technologies at a commercial scale. 31 | P a g e Jubilant DraxImage Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jubilant Pharma Limited, is working closely with the medical community on a treatment for patients with a rare disease called Neuroblastoma. Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that starts in certain forms of very early-stage nerve cells, most often found in an embryo or fetus (the term ‘neuro’ refers to nerves, while ‘blastoma’ refers to a cancer that affects immature or developing cells). This type of cancer occurs most often in infants and young children. It is rare in children older than 10 years (source: American Cancer Society). In response to the needs of patients, their families and the Neuroblastoma community in its entirety, Jubilant DraxImage has been consistently and reliably providing therapeutic 131I-mIBG to hundreds of patients, under an Investigational New Drug (IND) program approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) and for other select Investigational Clinical Trials since 2007. During the reporting year company has a total of 1,008 product filings across geographies, which includes 929 filings in Dosage (Orals) and 79 filings in sterile (Injectables & ophthalmics). Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities Jubilant prohibits any form of discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, caste, sex, religion or any other ground at workplace. Equal remuneration is provided to the male and female members of the workforce for the similar set of work. Jubilant is a signatory to the CII Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action that reconfirms the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society. Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities The SDGs have talked about making human settlements inclusive and sustainable. The Company through JBF is implementing the projects which are sustainable and inclusive. The Company believes in sustainable development, which we interpret as growing our business while meeting the legitimate concerns of our stakeholders. Jubilant takes a proactive role in empowering local communities to improve their quality of life so as to achieve the goal of inclusive growth. The Company’s CSR projects/programmes are designed in such a way where the community is involved from the planning to impact assessment level. The community shares human capital as well as various other resources in terms of land and cost of additional infrastructure development. Since the selected community programs are based near our manufacturing locations, our involvement in the community initiatives will be for a long tenure. However, we have a focused approach of developing the projects in self-sustainable model. Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Environment, Occupational Health & Safety (EHS) Policy, Responsible Care Policy and the Climate Change Mitigation Policy set the overall direction of the Company’s commitment towards achieving environment performance excellence. In addition, the Company has also adopted and communicated Green Supply Chain Policy to its suppliers, expecting them to be sensitive towards environment. The Company submits annual report against Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to Indian Chemical Council (ICC), which is a member of International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). This year the LSI plants and Corporate Office in India have been issued RC Logo by ICC. Gajraula and Corporate office have been already certified by DNV for successful implementation of RC 14001 based Responsible Care Management System following the 32 | P a g e American Chemistry Council (ACC) standards. Plan was also rolled out to implement this across all other LSI business plants in India. To remain cost competitive, Jubilant always practices efficient use of quality materials in its processes. The Company utilizes molasses as its key raw material which is biogenic in nature. Other major raw materials are alcohol and process chemicals. Molasses (by-products from sugar industries) and corn cob are renewable in nature and constitute over 41% of the total major raw material consumption. Process chemicals like solvents are recovered and recycled wherever possible. Goal 13: Climate Action Climate change and its impact is now very much evident and is a global phenomenon. Our company is no exception to this. Jubilant understand the damage potential this can bring to our business. Management is continuously gauging the changes in global, regional and national level policies and regulations on climate change and its mitigation. To be a partner to this global drive for climate action the Company is striving to reduce its carbon footprint in all possible means. Growing cost of energy and its linkage with climate change impact is a major business concern at Jubilant like any other industry. To tackle this issue, Jubilant has decided to focus on improving process energy efficiency, find alternate sources of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing the percentage of renewable energy in present energy mix. Bio-mass, biogas, bio-diesel and solar energy are the key renewable energy sources in the overall energy mix of the Company. It has invested significantly to generate energy from its distillery effluent in the form of Bio-gas, fired in the process furnaces. The Company is also monitoring and reporting its GHG emission regularly. Jubilant is one of the few companies in India disclosing GHG emissions and taking voluntary reduction initiatives by participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. During the reporting period, GHG emission intensity of our LSI business was calculated to 1.69 tCO2e/ MT of finished goods produced. While the same for APIs business was 58.83 tCO2e/ MT and for SDF business it was 9.55 tCO2e/million units of finished goods produced. Jubilant manufactures Pyridine using alcohol produced from agricultural feedstock (molasses) instead of using alcohol produced by conventional petro route. As per the Life Cycle based carbon footprint study conducted by Jubilant, it was evident that pyridine manufactured by us through ethanol (biogenic source) route has a much lesser carbon footprint than similar products which are manufactured through conventional petro route. Goal 14: Life Below Water Global demand for water will exceed supply by 40% by 2030. Business will be subjected to water shortages, water quality decline and water price volatility. Jubilant is aware about this growing conflict for water usage between industry and public at large across the globe. Jubilant is continuously optimizing water consumption through process modification and adoption of new technologies. The Company strives to recycle back usable water from the effluents after treatment in order to reduce fresh water consumption. Most of our Indian manufacturing facilities are zero liquid discharge. In addition to process modification, site management has also put in place the best available effluent treatment technologies for better recycling and reuse. Further, the Company 33 | P a g e has also implemented rainwater harvesting structures at several locations to support to water conservation. Goal 15: Life on Land No species listed in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and National Conservation List was found to exist in or near the manufacturing operations of the Company. All our manufacturing facilities are located outside biodiversity sensitive or notified protected areas. Therefore, there is no such case of habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff from Jubilant. Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions The Board of Directors (‘Board’) is the apex and highest governing body in Jubilant. The Board along with its Committees provides leadership and strategic guidance to the Company’s management while discharging its fiduciary responsibilities thereby ensuring that the management adheres to high standards of ethics, transparency and disclosures. The Board’s objective is to create sustainable value for all stakeholders, provide vision to the Company and oversee implementation of the Board’s decisions. Jubilant is led by a team of eminent individuals who inspire, lead and contribute to the growth of the Company. The Board of Directors has an judicial mix of executive, non-executive, independent and non-independent Directors. All members of the Board are well experienced and bring expertise in the fields of Life Sciences, Pharmaceuticals, Chemical Engineering, Banking, Accounts, Taxation, Administration, etc. to the table. The Independent Directors ensure independence and transparency in the Board’s decision-making process. The Independent Directors are not associated with the Company in any executive capacity. They do not have any material pecuniary relationship with the Company other than their remuneration. The Independent Directors, by furnishing a Certificate of Independence to the Board, affirm their independence on an annual basis. Co-Chairman and Managing Director (CCMD) is the highest Executive Officer of the Company. He belongs to the promoter group and along with the Chairman, has led the Company to its present growth and success. The Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of various businesses are responsible for smooth functioning of their respective businesses. This also includes development of business strategies keeping in view the interests of all the stakeholders. The business strategies and plans are reviewed during the Annual Strategy Meet by the Chairman, Co-Chairman and Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and CEOs. To focus effectively on the issues and ensure expedient resolution of diverse matters, the Board has constituted several Committees with clearly defined terms of reference and scope. Committee members are appointed by the Board with the consent of individual Directors. The Committees meet as often as required or as statutorily required. Minutes of the meetings of all Committees of the Board are placed at the subsequent Board meeting for noting. Major Committees are: 34 | P a g e • Audit Committee • Nomination, Remuneration and Compensation Committee • Stakeholders Relationship Committee • Sustainability & CSR Committee • Finance Committee • Capital Issue Committee • Fund Raising Committee The role, terms of reference and composition of these committees are available in detail in the Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report. There are several codes and policies framed by the Board in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Following are the key policies which provide broad guidelines for smooth and transparent functioning of the Board: • Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management • Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading • Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information • Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and Dealing with Related Party Transactions • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy • Policy for Determining Materiality of Events and Information • Policy on Board Diversity • Succession Plan for Board Members and Senior Management • Performance Evaluation Policy • Appointment and Remuneration Policy • Whistle Blower Policy • Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries • Dividend Distribution Policy • Policy for Preservation of Documents • Archival Policy At Jubilant, good governance is a tradition and a way of life and ‘Our Promise’ and ‘Our Vision’ set the overall direction on corporate governance of the Company. The Vision, Values and Promise statements of the Company are adopted by businesses and all other functions in the Company. There are several internally developed policies and codes adopted by the Company for good corporate governance. In addition to the above mentioned policies framed by the Board, there are several other policies adopted by the Company ensuring effective governance in regular operations. The information is also available on the Company’s website (http://www.jubl.com/sustainability/policy/sustainability-policy). 35 | P a g e Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals To harness the benefit of synergy generated in working together, Jubilant always emphasizes upon working in partnership with other institutions with similar goals. The Company is partnering with several local and global organisations, to make its CSR activities more impactful and beneficial for its communities. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF) joined hands with the Schwab Foundation in 2010 for Social Entrepreneurship to launch the Social Entrepreneur of the Year (SEOY) Award in India every year. The Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship and the Jubilant Bhartia Foundation are dedicated in promoting social innovation in India through recognizing social entrepreneurs who address the needs of under-served communities in both scalable and sustainable ways. SEOY Award provide unique regional and global platform to these social entrepreneurs of the country to promote social entrepreneurship as a key element to advancing societies and addressing social problems innovatively and effectively. It also fosters a close-knit community of social entrepreneurs for idea exchange and replication of best practices. This year Jubilant’s major partners under its various programs were: • World Economic Forum (WEF) • Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship • Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) • IL&FS Skills Development Corporation Limited • Panasonic • Start-up • Ogaan Cancer Foundation • Rotary Blood Bank • HP • Metaflex • Taraltech The Company also has membership of various associations and the list has been provided at page no 81 of Sustainability Report for FY 2017-18. The Company has been publishing Sustainability Report for the past 15 years following GRI Guidelines. The Sustainability Report for FY 2017-18 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: ‘Comprehensive’ option and externally assured by Ernst & Young, LLP. For further details on the alignment with SDGs, please refer the ‘SDG Mapping’ section at page no. 80 of the Sustainability Report for FY 2017-18. 36 | P a g e
