2017 CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL REPORT RESPONSIBILITY #Attractiveness 4 Editorial by Mauro Ricci #Loyalty 6 “Reaching your potential, #Employability living through technology” CONTENTS 7 #Attractiveness 11 #Loyalty: AKKA’ttitude 16 Newcomers and CSR 10 #Employability: employee experience 17 Digital transformation, Foreword a major challenge for AKKA As part of the European directive on non-financial reporting transforming the CSR report into a statement of non-financial performance, and in anticipation of its application, the Group states that it started to update its risk mapping at the 22 Reducing our footprint end of 2017. This will allow it, in the course of 2018, to restructure its CSR approach with policies, action plans and indicators relevant to these challenges. 23 Our societal commitment In this edition of the Corporate Social Responsibility report, the Group has chosen to highlight the three challenges associated with Human Resources that it considers to be priorities in terms of strategy: #Attractiveness, #Loyalty and 24 CSR, a long-term commitment #Employability. You will find a short presentation of each of these challenges with examples of illustrative actions developed by the Group (within the scope serving the Group's transformation of reporting). The Group’s environmental and societal commitments are also 25 Appendix A / Methodological Note addressed in two pages dedicated to this subject. All quantitative indicators are available in the appendix to this report. 27 Appendix B / Table of Indicators management, which is open to dialogue and respectful of Forging close links with territories through our agencies differences. This commitment has led to us being ranked, and centres of excellence in 20 countries, we are firmly for the third year running, as one of the “Top Employers rooted in our labour market and working at the core in France”, a title awarded to the best companies in the of a network of partners SMEs, research centres and world in terms of talent management and HR policy. universities – that we connect with each other in a drive And to promote the emergence of new ideas, we are for open innovation. This networking is conducive to the continuing to roll-out the “On Track” project which aims emergence of technological breakthroughs creating to place our consultants at the heart of entrepreneurial value locally. dynamics. We also launched our AKKADEMY in Geneva, Aware more than ever of the need to include Corporate which each month plays host to young engineering graSocial Responsibility as a cornerstone of our deveduates from all over Europe. The goal is to provide “digital lopment, we have committed for some years to a resnatives” with a springboard for forging an international ponsible initiative formalised by our accession to the career by combining theoretical training with practical Global Compact and strengthened year on year by experience working on a project with our teams. the introduction of specific actions which this report To better serve the needs of our customers, in 2017 we will illustrate. stepped up our digital transformation, notably through I hope you enjoy reading this report. the acquisition of the German company GIGATRONIK to continue the development of our offer. In line with the new societal challenges, this expertise must enable us to support our customers in their innovation projects for the purposes of a mobility that is more sustainable, Mauro Ricci connected, shared and environmentally-friendly. Chairman of the board and Group CEO E nvironmental awareness, faster technological EDITORIAL cycles, digital natives increasingly looking for meaning in relation to their workplace: our companies are having to deal with massive changes that are rocking the foundations of our organisations, our way of thinking about work, the customer relationship and innovation research. With this in mind, our Group must constantly adapt and rethink its methods to respond to a major challenge: stepping up its international development while promoWe also launched our AKKADEMY in Geneva, ting sustainable responsibility and preserving the entrepreneurial spirit that has always been its guiding light. which each month plays host to young engineering To meet this challenge and stay on track during this time of far-reaching changes, it is good to get back to graduates from all over Europe. basics. 30 years spent developing the great personal and entrepreneurial adventure that AKKA is has taught me The goal is to provide “digital natives” one thing: a company can only be sustainably successful if its development is marked by a virtuous balance with a springboard for forging an international career between all of its stakeholders employees, customers, shareholders, investors and partners. And that is what by combining theoretical training with practical we strive to do, at every level of the business. experience working on a project with our teams. Internally, we are committed to offering each of our employees a quality working environment with responsible 4 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 5 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REACHING YOUR POTENTIAL, LIVING THROUGH TECHNOLOGY #ATTRACTIVENESS FIRM COMMITMENTS TO BECOMING The introduction of Talentsoft, our HR management The AKKA Group faces a double challenge. On the one hand it must attract the A BENCHMARK EMPLOYER information system, has enabled us to strengthen best talent, which has been in short supply since business picked up. On the other, our investment in the skills of our employees. This solution will actually help us identify opportunities it must open up its recruitment to the digital sector, as well as the more traditional Human capital is the main source of wealth in the AKKA Group. In 2017, we pursued an ambitious for the training and development of our employees, skills in technical expertise and consultancy, to accompany the digital transformaHR policy aiming to turn AKKA into a leading thus improving their employability. They can also tion of its customers. Thanks to its unique positioning, combining a well-established technology consultancy company in terms of HR access in-house job opportunities more easily as part of our AKKA Move initiative. understanding of the industrial sectors and digital literacy, AKKA has the ability rankings. Aware of the importance of providing a working environment that is meaningful and to attract new recruits. The Group’s involvement in local higher education ecosysEver since the signing of the first Handicap stimulating, that focuses on initiative-taking and agreement in 2014, the disability policy has tems is one key area in which to increase visibility and be identified as an employer innovation, so as to attract a variety of profiles and been firmly embedded within the Group and its offering interesting prospects both in terms of career and international mobility. retain international talent, the Group rolled out recruitment teams in France, a pioneering country In 2017, more than 5,000 people were hired. numerous initiatives in response to these challenges in this matter. In 2017, 27 people with disabilities and also contributing to its social responsibility. To were hired. What’s more, a dedicated team illustrate this, I will give you three examples below Moreover, to boost its attractiveness in 2017, the Group sharpened its employer carries out awareness-raising activities with AKKA that have created shared value. brand, introduced internationally standardised recruitment tools and launched teams, especially during the European Disability Firstly, the launch of AKKAdemy in Geneva, Employment Week, in order to promote the the AKKAdemy. last November, was a key step in our drive for integration of our work colleagues within the teams. globalisation and our desire to transform our This 2017 CSR Report provides concrete evidence of recruitment practices to integrate young talent the firm commitments made by the Group. Enrolled from across the whole of Europe. We want to create a memorable experience for candidates through in an initiative for ongoing improvement, we will In 2017, more than continue this momentum in the years to come, this fully digital recruitment process and yearstrengthening our efforts on key areas such as long integration programme alternating learning 5,000 people diversity and workplace layout, as CSR requires a phases within our AKKAdemy with work experience long-term commitment. at our customers’ facilities. Furthermore, AKKAdemy will serve as a foundation for the “Leadership University”, a natural extension of our manager were hired. training programmes. Patrick Houry – CHRO 6 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 7 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY #ATTRACTIVENESS #ATTRACTIVENESS SCHOOL RELATIONS: AKKA Group supported A MUTUAL TOSS over 3,000 PARTNERSHIP students at the Central The AKKA Group’s schools policy aims Supélec campus to be close to both the schools’ management and to the students. The Group takes an early role in designing CHALLENGE AKKA, the training programmes so that they meet the needs of the market. It gets involved in the teaching of technology by sponsoring research chairs, holding courses on the innovations of tomorrow AN ANNUAL MEETING WITH and even on technical issues. It supports students, the real pipelines of skill and THE GRADUATES OF TOMORROW talent, in facilitating their employability (CV preparation, interview training, etc.), and sponsors student union projects. Evgenia Koutrouki, a 27-year-old Greek national, This may come in the form of financial joined the AKKAdemy following her Masters in or technological support to fulfil techcyber security and communications in Thessaloniki. nical or sporting achievements. For After one month’s initial training in Geneva, she example, in 2017 in France, the AKKA completed her first assignment at Matis in Paris Group supported TOSS, run by BDS at before being called up for the Amadeus project Supélec, a sports tournament which AKKADEMY, within the AKKA agency in Sophia Antipolis. >>> Evgenia shares her experience with us: brought together over 3,000 students at the Central Supélec campus over one weekend. INDIVIDUALISED “I found out about AKKAdemy when looking In Germany, MBtech is one of the main TRAINING OF YOUNG for Graduate programmes on LinkedIn. What attracted me was the opportunity to work for a sponsors of Youth Research, a competition which aims to encourage and supRECRUITS large company with opportunities for mobility. port talent in under 21-year-olds in the field of science, technology, engineering In my view, the key assets of this programme are and mathematics. An action that proAffirming its belief that the purpose of recruitment training in non-technical skills (like the ability to vides guidance to young people. goes beyond simply hiring new people, the AKKA give presentations to customers), taking part in Group established the AKKAdemy in Geneva, an an innovation project (including all stages from international graduate programme for new engiplanning through to appearing before a panel) neering graduates from universities and engineering and the development of social skills through schools in the European Union. AKKAdemy combines working in a group of graduates of different face-to-face courses and training on the ground: nationalities and cultures. Since 2001, Challenge AKKA, the Group’s annual, focal, social and sportafter a month of training, recruits take part in a oneing event, has allowed engineering school students to have formal and What’s more, AKKAdemy enabled me to start month AKKAthon before joining the Group’s teams informal discussions with the Group’s ambassadors and its management. working in my own area of expertise, cyber security.” worldwide. These agents of change bring their vision During a weekend’s skiing trip at Serre-Chevalier, the aim is to introduce as digital natives to the teams already in place, while the Group to the 150 participants: its expertise, its areas of business, its taking advantage of a springboard for an internabusiness activities and opportunities. It also provides an opportunity to tional career. The first class of 2017 had 30 people FIND OUT MORE get to grips with what these graduates are expecting and to identify their on board. The goal is to reach one hundred people www.theakkademy.com skills before they enter the labour market. In 2017, the AKKA Challenge in training per month in 2018. resulted in 30 people being directly recruited. 8 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 9 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY #ATTRACTIVENESS #LOYALTY: AKKA’TTITUDE DIVERSITY AND and works specifically in the design of special needs equipment. MEASURES In France, the Group has also entered a strong partnership with “Nos Quartiers ont du Talent” and TARGETING SPECIFIC Mozaïk HR. The aim is to introduce the business of technology consulting to young people from inner GROUPS cities that would not normally put themselves forward. Lastly, in 2018 AKKA France will discuss revising its company agreement on gender equality with La politique de recrutement du Groupe AKKA est trade unions. MBTech has already developed nuThe AKKA Group’s recruitment policy is based on the merous initiatives to promote women in business principle of equal opportunities: criteria for hiring (International Women’s Day...). are first and foremost skills and personal qualities, regardless of gender and the specific needs of the profiles recruited. To further develop equal opportunities, specific actions are carried out in favour of people with In the Czech disabilities. In France, a dedicated team promotes their integration regardless of disability, with specific Republic, AKKA is a actions for example during Disability Week. In the Czech Republic, AKKA is a partner in the Cesta za partner in the Cesta snem organisation, which organises sporting activities for both disabled and able-bodied employees, za snem organisation Over and above recruitment, one of the main challenges to be met by the AKKA In France, the Group Group is retaining its talent, and especially taking care of its human capital. This depends on having working conditions that are conducive to personal and profeshas also entered a sional development. In recent years, AKKA France has regrouped our many quality strong partnership worklife initiatives under a single brand. with “Nos Quartiers This brand is AKKA’ttitude! Rolled out in 2018, in all countries of operation, this initiative will build on the most promising interventions in order to duplicate them and ont du Talent” and adapt them locally. Mozaïk HR This positive way of reconciling well-being, health and technology at work illustrates the Group’s desire to create and maintain an environment that promotes team work, seen as a yardstick for success, but also for creativity and innovation. MBtech has already AKKA’ttitude is adopted the minute the newcomers arrive, benefiting from mentoring and an integration process over several steps. It is then translated into practice with developed numerous the implementation of numerous team events aimed at encouraging peers to meet, initiatives to promote but also at discovering the personalities and individuals that make up the Group and its agencies. The Group offers a working environment that promotes health and women in business safety in the workplace, and develops numerous actions for well-being and quality of life at work. 10 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY #LOYALTY: AKKA’TTITUDE #FIDÉLISATION : AKKA’TTITUDE ON-LINE CHALLENGE: INVOLVING 1,100 EMPLOYEES An inter-regional on-line challenge was TEAMlaunched in France. Volunteers were fitted with a digital wristband counting BUILDING their number of steps. The region that totalled the highest number of steps EVENTS won the prize for charity. This action proved highly popular with some 1,100 Over 7,000 Numerous actions promote the strengthemployees taking part, evidence of a true team spirit. Over 7,000 euros were euros were then ening of close ties between employees and their management, in a friendly, informal spirit that reflects the Group’s then donated to local humanitarian organisations. donated to local values: cooperation, discussion and OBTAINING mutual respect. For example, in France, Thanks to this first event, links have been humanitarian since 2015 we have held an annual Employee Day every third Thursday TOP EMPLOYERS established with associations such as Médecins sans Frontières in Western organisations. in June. Organised at the initiative of France. The success of this initiative has the local manager, it strengthens team CERTIFICATION led to the scheduling of a new on-line race in 2018, set to go beyond the borrelations and encourages exchanges. Sponsorship of sports events involving ders of France. employees, such as Run in, trail and other For the third year running, the AKKA races, is also very common. In Germany Group has picked up Top Employers and the Czech Republic, events such as AKKA certification in France and Germany Health Week or Company Celebration (automotive engineering activities). This are also an illustration of this, as well as certification, awarded after rigorous rethe B2Run for companies. view by the Top Employers teams and an audit carried out by an external firm, FRANCE recognises the Group’s ability to offer a quality working environment to teams, WINNER OF to develop talent and continuously improve HR practice. For the third TROPHÉES DU The Group sets itself apart particularly by the reception given to new employees year running, MIEUX VIVRE EN In France, since as part of its AKKAStart integration programme, but also by its ability to offer the AKKA Group ENTREPRISE 2015 we have employees a motivating working environment and support them in their cahas picked up On 22 November, the company was held an annual reer development, specific actions that ensure team commitment, and lastly by Top Employers awarded this Trophy for companies implementing a participatory strateEmployee Day its desire to develop close relationships between employees. certification gy for health and quality of life in the workplace, through initiatives that are every third in France and innovative, relevant, exemplary and promote well-being in the organisation. Thursday in FIND OUT MORE Germany The panel specifically appreciated the AKKA’ttitude initiative and organisation June. www.top-employers.com/en-GB/ of the on-line challenge. 12 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY #LOYALTY: AKKA’TTITUDE #LOYALTY: AKKA’TTITUDE In addition, a new generational agreement was negotiated in 2017, for a 3-year period. This aims to strengthen the integration process for employees, notably through the assignment of a mentor. Its objectives are: to hire 3% of employees REGULAR AND over 50 years old and 30% of employees under 26 years old; with a minimum 3 TRANSPARENT days of training over 3 years for employees over 50 years old. And, for those DIALOGUE over 57 years old wanting to work parttime, the financing of the employer’s full-time pension and supplementary reIn Germany, AKKA Komit-Ment 2017 AKKA’ttitude goes hand in hand with tirement contributions. Also noteworthy the spirit of transparency and honesis the signing of an agreement in France played host to over 100 managers ty, key attributes of Group relations. on work-life balance, which will be rolled Management therefore endeavours to out in 2018. with a view to presenting the embody AKKA’ttitude, for example, by going to meet employees to spell out Group’s prospects the strategy to all teams. In France, as in Germany, this involves open ongoing dialogue with staff representatives. VIDEO CHAT, LET'S TALK OR NEW AGENCY TOUR AGREEMENTS Keen to maintain a strong and constructive dialogue with all employees FOLLOWING regardless of their geographic location, the Group’s Executive Management SOCIAL DIALOGUE has organised several video chats, internal agreements and road shows. For example, the Video Chat organised in The various entities that make up AKKA November 2017, during which Paolo Del apply and comply with local laws in their ties. It provides a framework for keeping Noce, CEO France, and Patrick Houry, In addition, a host countries. Social dialogue and the organisation of working time for each disabled people in employment and for their integration, regardless of the type Chief Human Resources Officer, presented an overview of activities in France and new generational legal entity play a major part in each BU’s organisation and entrepreneurial of disability (motor, sensory, psychological, disabling illness...), and consolidates answered the many questions raised by staff. A total of 1,600 employees took agreement was culture. Following on from agreements undertaken in previous years, 2017 was the mobilisation of employees around a common and rewarding human project. part in these discussions. negotiated in 2017, a remarkable year in terms of negotiations. One of the major new structuring It makes provision for hiring 60 disabled people, including 30 permanent conIn Germany, AKKA Komit-Ment 2017 played host to over 100 managers with for a 3-year period agreements includes the signing of a new three-year Handicap Agreement for tracts and 30 under various types of contracts (apprenticeship, fixed-term a view to presenting the Group’s prospects, creating dialogue and building a the employment of people with disabilicontract, internship). united organisation. 14 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY NEWCOMERS AND CSR #EMPLOYABILITY: EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE As part of its initiative for dialogue with internal stakeholders, the Group recently organised a chat session* with new employees. This was an opportunity to gather their thoughts on AKKA’s CSR commitment, but also on how they view the significance of 25 key economic, social, societal and environmental issues for the Group. They are aged between 20 and 30 years old, are on permanent contracts The AKKA Group is known to address and mostly engineering graduates. Employed by the Group for less than 80% of the 10 challenges deemed five months, they are working as consultants or in support roles. For them, most significant A backdrop of digital transformation offers the AKKA Group unparalleled opporCSR is a fully integral part of the emtunities for development and innovation. The technological and industrial projects ployer brand. Although clearly not the assigned by its customers allow talented employees to excel. In order to succeed, determining factor in choosing a job, with all employees see previous page room for improvement. This result echoes one of the Group’s challenges is to develop its human capital by offering its emthe company’s commitment is reassuris also noted by the participants. management concerns and confirms the ing. However, analysis of each individual ployees “enhanced experiences”. AKKA knows that it needs to think unashamedly value of investments planned for 2018, challenge provides a picture with more They mention that areas of progress notably for developing premises. outside the box, be keen to discover new areas to dare to reinvent its practices, its light and shade. include the Group’s accelerated estabcustomer approach, its mode of operation. The Group’s training policy supports this lishment of innovative start-ups and its This chat session gave a clearer picture The AKKA Group is known to address diversity. On this last point, the Group’s of this stakeholder’s expectations, pardrive through mobilising projects for teams worldwide. 80% of the 10 challenges deemed most capacity for action is greatly reduced ticularly important for the Group given significant. The challenges “to provide according to newcomers. In fact, they future recruitment challenges. The AKKA Group has the advantage of having both strong industry expertise and excellent services”, “to guarantee perbelieve that engineering schools must being master of new technologies. Convinced of the value of its human capital and formance, controlled growth and profbe the starting point of many levers for itability” or “to combat corruption” are action. For them, the Group must supthe need to provide opportunities for development, it has implemented actions to the challenges most often addressed. port certain programmes, as it already encourage conditions for employee development and their motivation to embark Participants also acknowledged the does in Germany for example. performance of AKKA regarding the on projects, regardless of their role in the company. Access to enhanced, intergenattractiveness of the employer brand, Well-being in the workplace is the most erational and cross-disciplinary experiences, having to deal with different envitogether with the Group’s ability to ofimportant subject for participants. It ronments, the ability to experience new and still unexplored horizons all add up fer an exciting career through mobility. is also predominately what makes the * The methodological approach is Lastly, the Group’s willingness to explain Group attractive. On this point, AKKA is explained in the eponymous notes to an environment that encourages initiative-taking and employee participation. its strategy and exchange viewpoints seen as being firmly in control but with appended to this report. A virtuous circle that nurtures a winning spirit to invent the solutions of tomorrow. 16 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY #EMPLOYABILITY: EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE #EMPLOYABILITY: EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE PEOPLE DIGITAL-UP, REVIEW, COLLECTIVE The aim was to provide POWERFUL TOOL 4,030 people or 88% INTELLIGENCE everyone with the opportunity to of the eligible population have FOR LISTENING TO IN PRACTICE get involved in innovative subjects undergone a People review TALENT In late 2017, employees of AKKA France were invited to take part in a digital chalLINK & FLY, lenge. The aim was to provide everyone with the opportunity to get involved in All staff undergo annual appraisals. innovative subjects, with the benefit of These provide an ideal opportunity for exchanging views, getting a clearer unexpert insights and a booming collective movement. Digital-up took place over AN AKKA RESEARCH PROJECT derstanding of and finding out more two stages, in November and December. about employees. Secondly, 4,030 It took the form of an on-line platform for people or 88% of the eligible populabouncing ideas around, which helped tion have undergone a People review. stimulate employee creativity by offerThe identification of potential talent ing them points for reflection enhanced is reviewed by a committee in order by various content (articles, videos, weto develop customised training plans, binars...). Three topics were selected for adapted to their experiences and their this first edition: immersive technologies, career plans. analytical data, industrial connectivity and performance. The selection was made by liking the best projects, based on their innovative nature, their potential application in the short-term by customers, their feasibility and their presentation. There were many prizes to be won throughout all stages of participation, with a special prize for The AKKA Research centre combines new trends, technologies and apthe most creative project. plications from several industrial sectors (aerospace, automotive, rail...). It is distinctive in that it can rely on a broad portfolio of skills and the After the initial “Bouncing Ideas” stage, intercultural collaboration of its members. This combination is valuable AKKA AWARDS, the second stage took the form of a in developing projects internal to the Group or that are carried out in one-day hackathon, after a project test partnership with customers or external players. An example of innovaphase with customers. Groups of 12 then tion straight out of this laboratory is Link & Fly. This aircraft of the future INNOVATION REWARDED worked on the chosen projects with the aim of delivering a proof of concept is based on a new, relatively simple concept: the plane is separate from the cabin. Through its expert knowledge and cross-disciplinary approach (POC), a concrete specification or an The AKKA Awards have been held each submitted on the theme of innovation in to the aviation sector and its stakeholders, the Group simultaneously application, in order to subsequently year since 2014. Serving as a tool to reGermany, Belgium, China, Spain, France, meets the great many challenges affecting airports. In a context of develop the most relevant projects. tain talent, stimulate innovation and Italy, the Czech Republic and the United increasing passenger and aircraft numbers, Link & Fly promises to ease 50 projects develop team spirit, this competition is open to all employees, regardless of Kingdom. The jury prize was given to the German “Core AI” project on artificial 8 out of the 50 competing projects were selected and are in development. congestion at hubs and airports, and to improve passenger experience while increasing the profitability of airlines and owners through greater were submitted their role. To take part, applicants must submit on-line a project that they have intelligence, and the audience award to the French helicopter radiological To date, all are being followed up on a monthly basis and monitored by a memcabin modularity and a significant reduction in the cost of planes on the ground by increasing turnaround. on the theme of devised individually or as part of a team, in-house or for a customer. After initially mapping project, Helinuc, developed on behalf of the French Atomic Energy ber of the Executive Committee. innovation selecting projects for each country, the competition culminates in a grand interCommission (CEA). FIND OUT MORE national finale. In 2017, 50 projects were www.youtube.com/watch?v=oBK_I0hLqmE 18 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION, DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION, A MAJOR CHALLENGE FOR AKKA A MAJOR CHALLENGE FOR AKKA are adopting a strategic vision that no longer focuses on the sale of a vehicle, but on connectivity, autonomy, sharing vehicles and electrics. Not all industries have the same level of maturity when it comes to these matters, but what we are seeing is a breaking down of barriers between industries and the emergence of joint ventures. “Coopetition” within an industry, inter-company information exchange, “transversality” or adopting an approach which cuts across boundaries are new ways of working that are impacting organisations and business strategies. Interview with Pierre Guenoun, entered into partnerships within an ecosystem of open innovation with start-ups specialising in technological Digital Transformation Manager Digital transformation, building blocks, which we take on board and integrate HOW CAN AKKA TAKE ADVANTAGE into the solutions implemented at our customers. We WE HEAR A LOT ABOUT DIGITAL OF THESE TRANSFORMATIONS? have also developed a high value-added IT consulting TRANSFORMATION, COULD YOU DEFINE IT? Through its business-oriented history and developand digital hub. Finally, the Group is on the lookout is the practical Digital transformation is the practical application for external growth to enrich its know-how. In 2017, it of digital technologies. In its infancy a few years ment of IT, telecoms and digital activities, the AKKA Group naturally lies at the crossroads of converging acquired Gigatronik in Germany, a company specialapplication of digital ago, it entered into an exploratory stage, or even a ising in the Internet of Things, digital technology and development stage in some areas of business. forces that establish these new uses. While remaining focused on our engineering business, we are introin-vehicle infotainment. technologies ducing new technologies based on data (data collection, storage, processing and display), telecommuHOW DOES THIS TRANSLATE TO YOUR CUSTOMERS? nications between things (embedded systems, IoT), AND AT TEAM LEVEL, HOW DO YOU SUPPORT THIS cyber security, immersive technologies (augmented MOVEMENT? It has already had a great impact on our customers. reality, human machine interface...), etc. These are Firstly, it has transformed the customer relationship, all technological building blocks that make us very Digital transformation also involves transformation especially in the BtoC field. But the greatest impact relevant to our industrial customers requiring more in the management of human resources to strengthprovision of MOOC are developed to support the has been on engineering, our core business, where and more support in the use of digital solutions. en the Group’s attractiveness, develop and retain emergence of projects. The Digital up! event held it has altered the business models of some players. our talents by improving employee experience. We in late 2017 is a good example. We mobilised nearIt is no longer a product that is sold but a service, Internally, we have implemented concrete actions to are looking to rebalance the relationship between ly 300 people and selected 8 projects following a from maintenance right through to remodelling. The support this digital transformation, arousing much consultants and managers, by giving more weight hackathon. Transversality, cooperation between emcurrent transformation in the automotive sector is a enthusiasm and starting with the creation of the post to autonomy and entrepreneurship, particularly on ployees with different backgrounds and of different good example of this phenomenon: manufacturers of digital transformation manager. In France, we have customer sites. Local events, training seminars, the ages will drive our transformation forward. 20 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT OUR SOCIETAL COMMITMENT As a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2010, the AKKA With over 60 sites Group undertakes to worldwide and essentially apply its 10 principles. On dedicated to the a societal level, it aims in engineering business, particular to strengthen AKKA is striving to limit its local involvement, to the impact of its activities deploy ethical rules and a on the environment by code of conduct observed focusing on three major by all employees and axes: saving energy, partners to evolve with limiting travel and respect for human rights reducing waste. and employment law. Since 2012, AKKA has been involved in a certification process that is starting In France, a Prevention and Environment As geographical proximity to its ing and caretaking work and, since 2016, FOCUS ON ETHICS AND COMBATING customers and an understanding of their office and computer work too. To take its CORRUPTION to pay off. Eight group sites are ISO 14001 certified for the 2017 reporting team of 9 FTEs maintains issues is key to the success of projects, CSR initiative one step further, since 2017 In terms of ethics, each subsidiary apthe AKKA Group aims to maintain and France has been asking its suppliers to plies the Group’s Code of Conduct. This scope, a sign of their commitment to environmental performance, and five sites an environmental regulatory watch strengthen its local presence, keeping as formalise their social and environmental document, a veritable tool for moniclose as possible to their centres of develcommitment. toring the fight against corruption and in the Czech Republic are ISO 50001 certified until 2019, recognition of their and holds environmental activities.. opment. Present in 20 countries through unfair competition, refers to the key tework to promote more effective energy 21 Centres of Excellence and a network In addition to its responsibility as an nets of the relationship between AKKA management. of agencies in France and Germany, the employer, it supports local and national and its partners. In France, it has been Group generates a positive impact on organisations through sponsorship and distributed, since 2016, to all French sub“In general, each establishment is comlocal employment and the recruitment patronage. Active in medical fields, contractors and suppliers of industrial mitted to continuously improving its in many workplaces. In addition, 100% of skills from schools in these territories. sports and professional integration, it purchases. In Germany, it is an integral practices, to preventing pollution and of electrical and electronic waste is shares common values with them: courpart of the legal framework, managing to preserving the environment through recovered and recycled. Finally, to reKeen to develop its teams and to limit the age, respect and ambition. For example, the relationship between the parties. the implementation of concrete actions. duce paper consumption, the paperless risks relating to human rights and corin Germany, donations have been made The major elements of greenhouse gas office and electronic signature are enruption, the AKKA Group only essentially to Unicef since 2015. (GHG) emissions being buildings’ eleccouraged, and a badge printing system outsources for business and operational tricity consumption and business travel, has been deployed on 7 sites in France. services. In France, the focus is placed CSR PERFORMANCE the actions taken in recent years, such as specifically on collaboration with comFor 3 years the Group’s non-financial FIND OUT MORE using video conferencing tools to limit panies from the sheltered employment performance has been assessed by travel or the use of green IT, have conDownload our environmental policy sector [disabled employees], namely the independent body EcoVadis at tinued. Employees are also made aware Entreprises Adaptées (EA) [“adapted the request of several large customer Download ISO 14001 certificate ISO regularly of eco-attitude. companies” that enable disabled people accounts. AKKA’s CSR commitment is 50001 certificate *Drop-off recycling is a sorting solution into work] and Etablissements et Services recognised at an advanced level. The Finally, waste sorting is common pracvolving the employee by removing individDownload the previous CSR report to learn d’Aide par le Travail (ESAT) [a French assoGroup is included in the 12% of the most FIND OUT MORE tice on all Group sites. This year marked ual wastepaper baskets and providing cenmore about actions to reduce energy ciation developing job opportunities for committed suppliers in its category, recDownload the Global Compact letter of the introduction of drop-off recycling* tralised waste drop-off islands. consumption and GHG emissions. the disabled]. This concerns most gardenognised at “Silver” level. commitment 22 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A LONG-TERM COMMITMENT APPENDIX A / METHODOLOGICAL NOTE SERVING THE GROUP'S TRANSFORMATION This CSR report covering the 2017 calendar year was prepared pursuant to article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (known as the “Grenelle 2” law). In view of its international footprint, the Group takes into account the principles and recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative (see Table of Indicators). As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, the Group also presents here its Communication On Progress for the year 2017. Non-financial reporting scope The CSR report is prepared in accordance with financial reporting and quantitative data extracted from the internal information system. The data makes reference to the following scopes: Group: the scope referred to as “Group” covers the consolidated data of the AKKA SE Group. France: the scope referred to as “France” includes CSR data relating to the following entities: Aéroconseil, AKKA I&S, AKKA Informatique et Systèmes, AKKA Ingénierie Produit, AKKA Life Science, AKKA Manager, AKKA Research, AKKA Services, AKKA Technologies, EKIS France, EKIS, Erdimat, Real Fusio, MATIS Hightech, Modélisation Assistance Technique Informatique Scientifique. Germany: the scope referred to as “Germany” includes CSR data relating to the following entities: ATP, MBtech Consulting, MBtech EMC, MBtech Group, MBTech Verwaltungs, Proceda Modellbau, AKKA Germany, Auronik Services, Autonatic, Erlkönig, Erlkönig Holding, Erlkönig Technology, Projektexpertise. Czech Republic: the scope referred to as “Czech Republic” includes CSR data relating to the entity MBTech Bohemia. AKKA has set itself ambitious targets to transform its organisation, especially in terms of human The On Track2.0 Preliminary remarks resources. Its aim is to move from a model consisting of a cluster of businesses acquired over the years, project. This project The number of entities included in the CSR reporting scope continues to increase as planned. For 2017, the report covers all entities in Germany and includes a subsidiary company belonging to the International BU. to that of a Group governed by a policy and operating rules common to all entities, regardless aims to rely on a core As far as possible, the indicators are presented for the 2015 – 2016 2017 period. However, we would like to draw the reader’s attention to the fact that the indicators are not always comparable given the regular extension of the reporting scope. of their geographical location. This harmonisation is a long-term, step-by-step project which is being 200 consultants, true The reporting scope is confined to operational data and only partially includes indicators relating to assigned projects. carried out in accordance with the particular characteristics and local cultures specific to each ambassadors of the Definition of indicators The AKKA Group operates in numerous countries where legislation and cultures differ. Hence, some indicators relating to the French country, but also with the desire to spread best practices. Group’s strategy vis-à-vis non-financial reporting have been subject to adjustment in terms of definition. As such, the Group has established its own CSR reporting standards. In accordance with legislation, the method and accuracy of the calculations have been verified by an independent third party. In recent years, significant concrete advances their colleagues. Workforce have been made in terms of CSR, as confirmed All types of contracts are included in the workforce (permanent, fixed term, temporary, training contracts), except apprenticeship contracts by the indicators presented in this report. They will and suspended contracts (parental and sabbatical leave). be continued in 2018 and in subsequent years in order to steer the Group along a veritable path of Changes in the workforce continuous improvement, confirming its position as Intra-group movements are not reported in workforce movements. a responsible leader in its sector. Absenteeism The Group must also speed up workspace The types of absences taken into account in the absenteeism rate are sick leave and workplace accidents. Many sites have already been identified as, for reconfiguration, to improve the quality of life at The rate is calculated by dividing the number of days of absence by the theoretical number of days worked over the period. example, having implemented the agreement on work, to promote collaborative work and synergies workplace equality in France and increasing the within teams, but also to reduce their environmental Workplace accidents number of women in business, as using TalentSoft for impact. Number of workplace accidents with lost time: accidents are those recognised by the official authorities. internal mobility management and performance Number of hours worked: actual work time within the contractual definition of the term (paid leave and holiday leave excluded). reviews, or even continuing the On Track2.0 project. AKKA’s responsible commitment is to make CSR an Number of working days lost: days lost to workplace accidents are counted in calendar days. This project aims to rely on a core 200 consultants, accelerator of change, but also a force appealing Frequency rate: number of accidents with lost time per year / hours worked x 1,000,000. true ambassadors of the Group’s strategy vis-à-vis specifically to those driven by a passion for Severity rate: number of days lost per year due to workplace accidents in that year or following a fall / hours worked x 1,000. their colleagues. technology. 24 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEXE A / NOTE MÉTHODOLOGIQUE ANNEXE A / NOTE MÉTHODOLOGIQUE Training “Focus Group” Training is represented in hours. If detailed information is not available, 1 day equals 7 hours (France) or 8 hours (Germany) of training. Led by an external consultancy specialising in CSR, the chat session in January 2018 brought together 12 employees who had joined All types of internal and external training are included for all types of contracts. the Group during the previous five months. Exclusions in France: Individual Training Leave (CIF), any training given to interns and employees on apprenticeship contracts. The participants, 70% men and 30% women, were between 23 and 30 years old and were all based at the Andromeda site in Blagnac-Toulouse. Exclusions in Germany: coaching sessions and on-the-job training Participants were asked about a list of 25 CSR challenges that needed to be assessed on a scale of 0 to 5 and according to 4 criteria: risk factor, opportunity, preference or differentiation as well as capacity for action. Employment of disabled persons Given the limited sample size, the results are not necessarily representative of the general opinion of our employees. However, this The % of employees with disabilities out of the total workforce. focus group met our objective, which was to have an insight into the views and expectations of key stakeholders. Energy consumption Energy consumption reported covers: buildings (offices, workshops), service vehicles and industrial processes. GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions under Scope 1: direct emissions from fixed or mobile installations located inside the organisational perimeter Rank No. Challenge Average global importance (except for leaks of refrigerants for which data is not available), Scope 2: indirect emissions related to electricity consumption / heating Develop well-being and quality of life in the workplace and provide a framework conducive to 1 14 4.75 networks and a part of Scope 3: emissions associated with business travel. innovation and creativity 2 2 Ensure that our services are excellent 4.67 he information was established in line with the nature of the activities of AKKA Technologies and the associated social, environmental 3 3 Develop the complementarity of our offers/markets/areas of expertise/agencies 4.58 and societal impacts. The following information required by law is less relevant to the services of the AKKA Group, performed primarily 4 17 Enhance the attractiveness of our employer brand 4.50 in offices: 5 36 Ensure the confidentiality of projects and key data 4.50 • Elimination of forced or compulsory labour and the effective abolition of child labour; 6 18 Develop mobility and offer an exciting career 4.25 • Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks; Ensure the employability and agility of our employees through training or their involvement in • Measures to reduce waste or remedy discharges into the air, water and soil that have a serious adverse impact on the environment; 7 19 4.25 research projects, in particular during international contracts • Noise and other forms of pollution specific to an activity; 8 6 Integrate digital technology into our tools and processes 4.17 • Fight against food waste; Ensure the performance of the Group and control growth (projects and workforce) and • Water consumption and supply in relation to local constraints; 9 31 4.17 profitability/margins • Land use; 10 32 Explain our vision, our project and our strategy to get our stakeholders on board 4.17 • Adaptation to the consequences of climate change. Moreover, in view of their connection with projects conducted by the Group on behalf of its customers, the following themes cannot be addressed. The Group is nevertheless aware of the impact that its projects may have on the environment. • Consumption of raw materials and measures to improve efficiency in their use; Rank No. Challenge Average global importance • Measures taken to preserve or develop biodiversity; 1 2 Ensure that our services are excellent 4.67 • Measures taken for the health and safety of consumers. Ensure the performance of the Group and control growth (projects and workforce) and 2 31 4.67 profitability/margins The Group recognises that it may use its influence with its customers to prompt them to take sustainable development into account in their specifications, but is also aware of the free will of its contractors and, by principle, respects all clauses on which it is questioned. 3 8 Combat all forms of corruption in our markets 4.50 4 3 Develop the complementarity of our offers/markets/areas of expertise/agencies 4.00 5 17 Enhance the attractiveness of our employer brand 4.00 6 18 Develop mobility and offer an exciting career 4.00 7 32 Explain our vision, our project and our strategy to get our stakeholders on board 4.00 8 6 Integrate digital technology into our tools and processes 3.67 9 11 Develop a collaborative relationship with our suppliers to facilitate innovation 3.67 10 36 Ensure the confidentiality of projects and key data 3.67 26 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS (GRENELLE 2 – Art. 225) GRI ISO Global UNITS 2017 2016 2015 26000 Compact SOCIAL INFORMATION Group France Germany Czech Group France Germany Group France Germany Republic 1 Total Workforce LA1 6.4.4 Number 15,587 6,996 3,951 532 13,252 6,349 2,928 12,222 ND ND Breakdown by gender % men 77% 76% 78% 88% 79% ND ND 79% ND ND % women 23% 24% 22% 12% 21% ND ND 21% ND ND Breakdown by age group < 25 years 995 553 148 28 798 468 110 631 ND ND Between 25 and 30 3,794 1,697 804 146 3,165 1,498 551 2,746 ND ND years Between 30 and 40 5,951 2,533 1,561 213 5,096 2,387 1,110 4,915 ND ND years Between 40 and 50 3,117 1,456 869 101 2,716 1,289 725 2,576 ND ND years Between 50 and 55 890 406 303 23 792 386 257 755 ND ND years > 55 years 840 351 266 21 686 321 175 599 ND ND 2 Change in workforce / Hires LA2 Number 5,555 2,595 968 45 4,231 2,071 652 2,775 ND ND Change in workforce / Departures Number 4,268 1,906 803 91 3,279 1,778 465 2,624 ND ND 28 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3 Wages LA3 €K 891,657 ND ND ND 733,000 ND ND 660,000 ND ND 4 Organization of working hours LA7 31 Absenteeism % ND 2.82% 6.03% 2.55% ND 2.41% 3.61% ND 3.08% 3.95% 5 Organization of social dialogue LA4 6.4.3 / 5 3 6 Review of collective agreements LA5 7 Occupational health and safety LA4 6.4.6 4/5 conditions 8 Review of agreements signed with LA9 trade unions or employees’ representatives on occupational health and safety 32 Workplace accidents: LA7 Accidents with lost time Number of accidents ND 36 32 1 ND 24 31 ND 18 14 Frequency rate % ND 3.45 5.31 1.05 ND 2.47 4.86 ND 2.33 3.10 Severity rate % ND 0.06 0.06 0.02 ND 0.04 0.06 ND 0.03 0.03 Number of occupational diseases Number of diseases ND ND 1 ND ND ND 9 Objectives and strategy in terms of LA11 6.4.7 APPENDIX B / TABLE OF INDICATORS training 10 Total hours of training LA10 Hours ND 46,246 55,195 31,330 ND 47,704 47,642 ND 41,852 32,247 11 Measures taken to promote gender LA14 6 equality 12 people with disabilities LA13 % ND 2.27% 1.03% 0.94% ND 2.01% 1.30% ND 1.90% 1.40% 13 Anti-discrimination policy LA13 33 Respect for freedom of association HR5/LA4/LA5 6.3.10 3 and the right to collective bargaining 34 Elimination of discrimination in respect HR4/LA13/ 6 of employment and occupation LA14 35 Elimination of forced or compulsory HR6/HR7 4 labour 36 Effective abolition of child labour HR6 5 INDICATORS (GRENELLE 2 – Art. 225) GRI ISO 26000 Global UNITS 2017 2016 2015 Compact ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Group France Germany Czech Group France Germany Group France Germany Republic 14 Organization of the company to take 6.5.1/2 7/8/9 account of environmental issues and, where applicable, environmental assessment or certification procedures 15 Employee training and information for the protection of the environment 16 Resources devoted to the prevention of EN30 environmental risks and pollution 37 Amount of provisions and guarantees for EN28/EC2 environmental risks provided that such information is not liable to cause serious prejudice to the company in an ongoing dispute 17 Measures to reduce waste or repair EN22/EN23/ 6.5.3 discharges with an adverse impact on the EN24 environment into the air, water or soil 18 Measures for prevention, recycling, reuse, EN22 other forms of recovery and disposal 19 Noise and other forms of pollution EN25 specific to an activity 20 Fight against food waste EN25 21 Water consumption and supply in relation EN8 EN9 6.5.4 to local constraints EN21 22 Consumption of raw materials and EN1 measures to improve efficiency in their use: 23 Energy consumption (buildings) EN3/EN4 GWh ND 6.0 20.5 2.7 ND 5.5 18.4 ND ND ND Energy consumption company car L diesel ND 402,884 734,750 208,464 ND ND ND ND ND ND L gasoline ND 11,621 1,624 ND ND ND ND ND ND Measures taken to improve energy EN5/EN6/ efficiency and the use of renewable EN7 energies 38 Land use 24 Significant sources of greenhouse gas EN16/EN17/ 6.5.5 TCO2e ND 4,769 11,709 1,606 ND 18,610 ND ND ND emissions generated as a result of the EN19/EN20 company’s activity, notably through the use of the goods and services it produces: APPENDIX B / TABLE OF INDICATORS of which buildings ND 404 8,010 510 of which company cars ND ,055 2,169 552 of which process ND 98 of which business trips ND 3,310 1,529 46 25 Measures taken to preserve or develop EN11-EN15/ 6.5.6 biodiversity EN25 39 Adaptation to the consequences of EN18 /EC2 6.5.5 climate change 29 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS (GRENELLE 2 – Art. 225) GRI ISO Global UNITS 2017 2016 2015 26000 Compact SOCIETAL INFORMATION Group France Germany Czech Group France Germany Group France Germany Republic 26 Employment or regional development EC8/EC9 6.8.5 27 Local, economic and social impact of EC1/EC6 6.8 the activity on local or local populations 28 Conditions of dialogue with these 4.14 4.17 5.3.3 people or organisations (integration companies, teaching institutions, NGOs, residents, etc.) 29 Partnerships and sponsorship EC14.114.13 6.8.9 30 Consideration of societal and EC6/HR2/HR56.6.6 1/2/9 environmental Issues in the purchasing HR7 policy 40 Importance of outsourcing and 3.6 et 4.14 % 11.2% ND ND ND 12.0% ND ND 11.3% ND ND consideration of their societal and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers and subcontractors Amount of services entrusted to €K ND 491 ND ND ND 363 ND ND ND ND companies in the protected sector 41 Action to prevent corruption SO2SO4/SO7/ 6.6.3 10 30 • AKKA TECHNOLOGIES / 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SO8 42 Measures taken for the health and PR1/PR2 6.7.4 1/2 safety of consumers 43 Measures taken in favour of human HR 6.3 rights APPENDIX B / TABLE OF INDICATORS PHOTO CREDITS DESIGN AND PRODUCTION ©AKKA ©FOTOLIA Communication department AKKA France PASSION DRIVES US ALL akka-technologies.com
