MUFG Report 2017 Integrated Report Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Editorial Overview Who We Are We, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, or MUFG, have compiled our integrated report, MUFG Report 2017, in order to explain our efforts to create sustained value to our investors and other stakeholders. Referencing the framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC),* this report introduces our business model through the opening section (“Who We Are”), and explains the methods we have used to create sustainable value through “Corporate Value Initiatives,” “Important Issues Concerning Value Creation—How MUFG Addresses ESG Issues” and “The Foundations of Corporate Value.” Further details on our CSR activities are available on our website. Corporate Vision Our * A private sector foundation established in 2010 by companies, investors, accounting organizations and administrative agencies to develop an international framework mission for corporate reporting. The corporate vision serves as the basic policy in conducting our business activities, and provides guidelines Important Issues Concerning Value Creation for all group activities. Who We Are P. 1 ─How MUFG Addresses ESG Issues P. 44 Our vision The corporate vision also is the foundation for management P. 1 Corporate Vision Initiatives for Addressing ESG Issues toward decisions, including the formulation of management P. 45 Sustainable Growth P. 2 MUFG Value Creation Process strategies and management plans, and serves as the core P. 46 Environmental Initiatives P. 4 History of MUFG value for all employees. Our values P. 48 Contributing to Future Industries and a Better Society P. 6 Financial Highlights P. 52 Social Contributions P. 8 ESG Highlights P. 54 Rallying Groupwide Resources to Build Sophisticated Principles of Ethics and Conduct Investment Chains MUFG has established Principles of Ethics and Management Message P. 10 Helping Corporate Customers Achieve Growth P. 56 Conduct based on its Corporate Vision. These through Financing Responsibility Ethical and Customer as a Corporate Dynamic P. 10 Message from the CEO P. 58 Upgrading the Governance Framework principles provide standards for all MUFG Focus Citizen Workplace P. 22 MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy P. 60 Ensuring sustainable growth in our corporate value employees to guide their decisions and actions, P. 24 Digital Strategy thereby leading them to realize the Dialogue between Lead Independent Outside Director How we act to realize the Corporate Vision P. 66 and Investors Corporate Vision. P. 26 Message from the CFO P. 68 Board of Directors P. 70 Corporate Executive Officers and Executive Officers Corporate Value Initiatives P. 32 P. 71 Global Advisory Board P. 33 Business Overview P. 72 Outline of Annual Meeting P. 34 Retail Banking Business Foundations of Corporate Value P. 74 To be a foundation of strength, committed to meeting the needs of our customers, P. 36 Japanese Corporate Banking Business serving society, and fostering shared and sustainable growth for a better world. P. 38 Global Banking Business P. 40 Asset Management / Investor Services Business P. 76 Initiatives to Build Sustainable Relationships with Customers Our mission P. 78 Human Resources Strategy P. 42 Global Markets Business P. 82 Communicating with Stakeholders P. 84 Risk Management Be the world’s most trusted financial group P. 88 Compliance P. 89 Internal Audit 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our customers P. 90 Responding to Global Financial Regulation 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our customers 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence Financial Data / Corporate Data P. 92 Our vision P. 92 Five-Year Major Financial data (FY 2012-FY 2016) P. 93 Financial Review for Fiscal 2016 P. 98 Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Integrity and Responsibility P. 102 Company Overview Disclaimer 2. Professionalism and Teamwork This report contains forward-looking statements in regard to expectations, forecasts, targets and plans of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”) and its 3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, “the Group”). These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to the Group and are stated in this document on the basis of the outlook at the time that this document was produced. In producing these forward-looking statements certain assumptions (premises) have been utilized, which are subjective and may prove to be incorrect. Should any underlying assumption provide to be incorrect, actual results in the future may vary materially from some of the forward-looking statements in this document. The Group has no obligation or intent to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document. In addition, information on companies and other entities outside the Group that is included in this document has been obtained from publicly available Our values information and other sources. The accuracy and appropriateness of that information has not been verified by the Group and cannot be guaranteed. All figures contained in this report are calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in Japan, unless otherwise noted. Details on our corporate vision are available on our website. http://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/philosophy MUFG Report 2017 1 Who We Are MUFG Value Creation Process Enhancing Corporate Value by Providing Solutions that Address Social Issues Maintaining a strong domestic base while Value delivered to Social Issues MUFG seeking out growth opportunities overseas stakeholders Global economy Shareholders ● Countering low economic Invested capital Business models Initiating efforts to create a more sophisticated business model growth in developed countries MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy P.22 ● Further enhancing and slowing growth in emerging shareholder returns nations ● Simultaneously ensuring P.29 environmental protection and achieving economic growth Human Group management Adapting to widespread capital Services beyond ● on a global basis Customers ● digitalization Retail Banking P.34 Banking expectations Synergies through P.24-25 Domestic economy strategic capital P.34-43 Declining birthrate and aging Japanese Corporate alliance P.76-77 ● population Intellectual P.36 Banking Ongoing deflationary trend capital ● ● Reforming investment chains Corporate ● Invigorating regional economies governance framework Environment and society Global Banking P.38 Brokerage Retail Business Contributing through Social and ● Risk appetite ● Stable asset building business activities ● Securing the smooth succession relationship framework of assets for the next generation capital Investor Services / P.46-57 P.40 Asset Management Culture of compliance Corporate Business Employees ● Securing business succession in Contributions to Asset light of an aging generation of Financial Global Markets P.42 management corporate managers environmental and ● Creating a rewarding capital social sustainability ● Establishing and executing workplace sound growth strategies (globalization, M&A and the P.78-81 expansion of sales channels) Committed engagement with stakeholders Returning benefits to society P.82 Invested capital Shareholder Net Operating Profits Retail Others Banking Group Employees*1 Stucture*1*2 16.53% by business*1 14% Human capital Social and relationship capital Overseas Domestic 150,000 domestic and overseas employees with diverse Extensive customer base (40 million individual accounts and Foreign Global Employees Employees ● ● Individuals Markets backgrounds 400,000 corporate customers in Japan) and Others Institutions 41% 59% 37.98% 24% ● Wealth of human resources boasting professional skills ● Global network (1,100 domestic bases and approximately 1,200 13.64% Japanese ● Strong sense of loyalty overseas bases across over 50 countries) Corporate IS / AM Banking 4% 27% Financial Global Intellectual capital Financial capital Institutions Banking ● Insight into various business sectors around the world ● Solid balance sheet 31.82% 31% ● Expertise in commercial banking businesses in Japan ● Diversified profit structure and elsewhere in Asia as well as the United States ● Stable procurement bases at home and abroad Global Banking accounted for 40% ● The utilization of external inputs via open innovation of total customer segments*3 *1 As of March 31, 2017 *2 Excluding own shares and fractional shares *3 Net operating profit of Global Banking / net operating profit of total customer segments 2 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 3 Who We Are History of MUFG ・MUFG Corporate Governance The MUFG Basic Policy for Policies established Fiduciary Duties established Among MUFG’s precursors, the oldest dates back approximately 360 years. Over this long span of time, our ・Moved to a “company with three The formulation of common guidelines for the commitment to addressing customer needs has remained unchanged, weathering the course of mergers prompted committees” structure Group to enforce its customer-first policy by recurring periods of social change and economic adversity, including worldwide recessions, Japan’s rapid growth Shifted from a “company with a board of corporate auditors” structure to a period, the rise and fall of bubble economies and, most recently, the Global Financial Crisis. “company with three-committees” structure, with the aim of establishing a We have nurtured our commitment despite the circumstances and are determined to move forward to achieve mutual more transparent and effective governance framework and sustainable growth with our customers. Moreover, we aspire to contribute to the sound development not only of Japan but of countries around the world and we aim to be part of the bedrock of society. Our vision With all employees sharing this commitment and aspiration, MUFG steadfastly pursues its mission. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities inaugurated Be the world’ s most Konoike Exchange MUFG inaugurated trusted financial group Bureau opened in In August 2004, predecessor companies signed a basic Osaka (1656) agreement on integration. In October 2005, MUFG was (One of the precursors MUFG Corporate Vision renewed inaugurated via the merger of Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial of Sanwa Bank) Group and UFJ Holdings. Ensured the reputation for trustworthiness that MUFG enjoys among customers, which is backed by a longstanding track record and is Source：Konoike Limited Partnership Company maintained and passed on, underscoring the Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, commitment of each employee 2016 2018 Mitsubishi Exchange Mitsubishi UFJ Securities inaugurated The BOJ introduces a House established by negative interest 2017 Yataro Iwasaki (1880) Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ rate policy The Trump (One of the precursors administration inaugurated 2015 U.K. referendum inaugurated in of Mitsubishi Bank) Complete repayment of public funds Quantitative results in a the United easing decision to States 2012 2013 2014 leave the Source: The Mitsubishi Archives The Nippon measures The second The BOJ introduced by European Union Abe introduces Individual the European Yokohama Specie Bank Bank of Tokyo established (1946) administration quantitative Savings Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS, inaugurated in and Account (NISA) Central Bank established (1880) (One of the precursors of Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Japan, qualitative launched (One of the precursors Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) initiating the monetary of Bank of Tokyo) Finance inaugurated Abenomics easing 2011 stimulus policies package The Great East April 2018 (scheduled) 2010 Japan Earthquake ・Integrate the corporate Source: Kanagawa Prefectural Museum of Cultural History The debt crisis Toyo Trust and Banking emerges in Europe loan-related business of Bank of 2009 established (1959) The Obama administration Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi Bank established (1919) (One of the precursors of 2008 inaugurated in the United Integration of Union Bank Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (One of the precursors of Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking) Financial crisis States operations and Bank of ・Rename the commercial bank Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) triggered by Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ as “MUFG Bank” Lehman Brothers Americas business Sanwa Bank established (1933) 2007 (One of the precursors of Bank Subprime mortgage problems emerge in the United States of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) 2006 The Bank of Japan (BOJ) 2005 terminated zero interest MUFG Re-Imagining Transition to rate policy 1991 limited deposit Strategy announced The collapse guarantee payoff Aiming to achieve sustainable growth and 1964 of Japan’s scheme in Japan Tokyo bubble contribute to the betterment of society by Olympic economies Strategic alliance with developing solutions-oriented business games 1941 Morgan Stanley The Pacific War breaks out During the global financial crisis, MUFG 1929 invested US$9 billion in Morgan Stanley Worldwide Conversion of Bank of Ayudhya Capital and operational alliance Capital and business alliance (U.S.) as part of its efforts to strengthen recessions investment banking (Krungsri), a major commercial with Vietnam Joint Stock with Security Bank Corporation bank in Thailand, into a subsidiary Commercial Bank for Industry in the Philippines Initiated full-scale comprehensive and Trade (VietinBank), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ reached an agreement financial services in ASEAN as a key a national bank in Vietnam with Security Bank, a key commercial bank in the growth strategy initiative Philippines, to form a capital and business alliance, with the bank acquiring a 20% equity stake in Security Bank Tokai Bank established (1941) (One of the precursors of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) Mitsubishi Trust established (1927) Yachiyo Securities established (1948) (One of the precursors of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking) (One of the precursors of Mitsubishi ・UnionBanCal Corporation became a Kawasaki Trust established (1927) UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities) wholly owned subsidiary of MUFG (One of the precursors of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking) ・ACOM became a consolidated subsidiary of MUFG (JGAAP only) 4 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 5 Who We Are Financial Highlights Key Financial Performance Indicators Financial Position Compared with Global Peers (G-SIBs) EPS (growth) ¥68.28 ROE (profitability) 7.25% Market Capitalization Earnings per share (EPS) MUFG definition* (Yen) (Trillions of yen) (%) Profits attributable to owners of parent (right axis) Tokyo Stock Exchange definition (Trillions of yen) 100 1.2 10.00 40.0 80 68.28 1.0 9.00 35.0 0.8 30.0 60 8.00 25.0 0.6 7.25% 20.0 40 7.00 0.4 15.0 20 0.2 6.00 6.02% 10.0 0 0 5.00 5.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 Despite the execution of share repurchases, the EPS decreased due to a fall in The ROE decreased due mainly to a prolonged trend toward low interest rates on JP Morgan Bank of HSBC Citigroup BNP Goldman MUFG Morgan Barclays Credit Deutsche profits attributable to owners of parent. a global basis. America Paribas Sachs Stanley Suisse Bank (Exchange rate: ¥112.19 to one U.S. dollar; as of March 31, 2017; source: Bloomberg) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Expenses Ratio (profitability) 64.6% (financial strength) 11.9% Expenses ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (full implementation) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (full implementation) General and administrative expenses (right axis) Gross profits (before credit costs for trust accounts; right axis) (Trillions of yen) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (%) (%) 64.6% (%) 65 4.0 12.5 15.9% * White numbers in the bar chart represent each institution’s required ratio. 16.0 3.0 12.0 11.9% 60 11.76% 14.0 13.6% 2.0 11.5 12.7% 12.5% 12.4% 12.2% 55 11.9% 11.8% 1.0 11.0 12.0 11.5% 11.5% 10.8% 50 0 10.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 10.0 9.5% 9.5% 9.0% 9.0% 9.0% 9.0% Although general and administrative expenses stayed virtually unchanged The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio remained above the level required by 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% thanks to cost control initiatives, the expenses ratio increased due to a decline in financial regulations. gross profits reflecting decreases in domestic interest income and gains on 8.0% debt securities. 8.0 Ratio of the Global Banking Business Morgan HSBC Goldman Citigroup Barclays JP Morgan MUFG Deutsche BNP Credit Bank of Stanley Sachs Bank Paribas Suisse America Segment in the Net Operating Profits from Ratio of Fee Income 36% Customer Segments 40% (Rates as of December 31, 2016, excluding the rate for MUFG as of March 31, 2017; based on data disclosed by each firm) Ratio of fee income The ratio of the Global Banking business segment in the net operating profits from customer segments Fee income (right axis) Net operating profits of the Global Banking business segment (right axis) Credit Ratings (%) Gross profits (right axis) (Trillions of yen) (%) Net operating profits of customer segments (right axis) (Trillions of yen) 40 4.5 50 1.5 S&P Holding 40% U.S. Firms European Firms Company Rating 36% 40 35 3.0 1.0 A+ 30 20 A MUFG HSBC BNP Paribas 30 1.5 0.5 10 AJP Morgan Deutsche Bank 25 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) The ratio of fee income to gross profits grew in step with an increase in fee The Global Banking Business segment generated more than 40% of net operating BBB+ Morgan Stanley Citigroup Goldman Sachs Bank of America Credit Suisse income due to rises in fees from domestic investment banking business and profits from customer segments thanks to the success of steady efforts aimed at fees and commissions from overseas operations, as well as a decline in expanding revenues from deposits, loans and fees and commissions in overseas gross profits. operations, countering shrinking revenues from domestic operations. BBB Barclays Profits attributable to owners of parent * ×100 (Rating of issuers of long-term foreign currency denominated debt as of June 30, 2017; source: Bloomberg) [(Total shareholders’ equity at the beginning of the period + Foreign currency translation adjustments at the beginning of the period) + (Total shareholders’ equity at the end of the period + Foreign currency translation adjustments at the end of the period) ] ÷ 2 6 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 7 Who We Are ESG Highlights Environment Governance Renewable energy sector: The value of project finance US$2,911Million Number of members of the Board of Directors Proportion of Independent Proportion of arrangements handled by MUFG (No.1 ranking) Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions* 145,517t Outside Directors Non-executive Directors Total Outside Directors Company with a Board (t-CO2） Company with Three Committees (Millions of US$) of Corporate Auditors 3,000 2,911 250,000 20 18 17 17 200,000 15 15 145,517 15 8/18 10/18 2,000 150,000 100,000 10 8 44.4% 55.5% 6 7 1,000 50,000 5 4 2 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (CY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Sorce: Bloomberg New Energy Finance * Total of MUFG and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (Japan) Society External Recognition Number of occasions in which Number of business cumulative MUFG staff provided students matches made* Approx. 77,700 with economic and financial education* 499times (times) 499 ESG-related indices 80,000 77,700 500 MUFG stock has been designated by some prominent ESG-related 400 indices in Japan and overseas (as of 60,000 May 31, 2017). 300 200 40,000 100 Capital Eye Best Deals of 2016 The 2017 Competitive IT Strategy Winning a Special Award in the Company Stock Selection 20,000 0 foreign bond category MUFG was selected by Japan’s 2005～ 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 MUFG was selected as a winner of a Ministry of Economy, Trade and * The Number of business talks at large-scale business matching conference in Japan * On-demand school lectures and workplace experience programs conducted by staff at Special Award under the Capital Eye Industry and the Tokyo Stock the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM Best Deals of 2016 award program Exchange as an attractive company (foreign bond category) for the due to its aggressive utilization of IT Number of employees Ratio of female managers September 2016 issuance of a in its management activities and on childcare leave* 3,391 in the entire managerial positions* 19.2% TLAC-eligible Green Bond—the engagement in strategic IT world’s first bond of this kind. investments and other initiatives. Mar. 31, 2018 (%) 20.0 (planned) 4,000 20.0 19.2 3,391 Bloomberg Financial Services Certified Health and Productivity 18.0 Gender-Equality Index Management Organization 3,000 MUFG was chosen by the index as a (Major Corporation Category) 16.0 company attractive due to its MUFG was selected as a Certified creation of a workplace environment Health and Productivity Management 2,000 that embraces gender equality Organization (major corporation 14.0 along with efforts to maintain timely category) in February 2017 by the 12.3 information disclosure, solid Ministry of Economy, Trade and 1,000 12.0 cumulative track record and Industry for its outstanding track record 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Apr. Apr. Apr. Apr. Apr. Apr. Mar. progressive policies in this area. in the practice of health management. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Total for the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, * Total of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 8 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 9 Management Message Message from the CEO Strengthening Our Financial Performance & Social Contribution Through Enlightened, Relevant & Future-Oriented Strategies Implementing the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy, we will contribute to the strength and development of the social fabric at home and abroad, while working hand-in-hand with stakeholders to ensure mutual and sustainable growth. Forces Shaping our Domestic and Global Markets The world witnessed profound upheaval in our fiscal 2016—ended March 31, 2017—with changes in the political sphere, and geopolitical instability arising from new and often violent sources. Regional economic disparities became more significant, and financial markets were shaken by drastic fluctuations. These unsettling forces fueled a sense of uncertainty worldwide. Out of necessity as a responsible business, we learned to monitor and assess the latest operating conditions more accurately, to make swift and timely decisions. Why did U.K. voters choose Brexit? Why did U.S. voters choose a Trump administration? Largely because of deepening divisions in society and widespread failure of the political and economic establishment to address the divisive results. I believe we must take these developments very seriously, in part because they reveal how ineffective the establishment—which includes financial institutions like ours—has been in recognizing the tectonic pressures building beneath society’s surface. Fortunately, political, economic, and social conditions have been stable in Japan, MUFG’s home market. The Abe administration has succeeded in breaking a syndrome of indecisive leadership and its political side effects. Moreover, Japan has enjoyed a fifth consecutive quarter of economic growth, and its society is comparatively stable at the international level. But structural problems could materialize quickly and forcefully. Japan is facing a number of potential immediate and long-term issues that demand decisive, preemptive action. Immediate issues include a trend of shrinking corporate investment and household spending due to prolonged deflation, social inequities among generations, and an unbalanced budget. Longer-term issues include the growing effect of an aging and shrinking population, which threatens the nation’s social order and sustainability. These short-term trends in spending and long-term trends in demographics affect one another, and we have to address them both accordingly. Given this domestic scenario, I believe Japan has a duty to embrace a leadership role on the global stage, setting an example of how to deal with issues that others—including Nobuyuki Hirano developing nations—may also eventually encounter. If Japan succeeds in establishing Director, President & Group CEO precedents and sharing best practices, this would help the country strengthen its stature among the international community. 10 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 11 Management Message Message from the CEO We believe that just as Society 5.0 in our home country is a key government strategy to address an aging society and a shrinking population, digitalization will be a key ingredient in the unique solutions that financial institutions will no doubt develop to meet the inevitable challenges ahead. Overview of Operating Results for Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 During the year, our domestic Retail and Corporate Banking and foreign currency Asset Liability Management (ALM) felt the effects of the circumstances discussed above. In particular, they were affected by the Bank of Japan’s negative interest-rate policy, and the rise in U.S. long-term interest rates instituted in November. These low rates contributed to decreased profits in many of MUFG’s business segments. Retail Banking, for instance, saw profits decline, due to a slump in revenues from yen deposits and the sluggish performance of investment-products sales. This was despite continued growth in consumer finance, and solid demand for residential mortgage loans fueled by very low interest rates. This suggests we may be midway through our reforms that were meant to induce “a shift from savings to stable asset building.” With this understanding, the Government has proposed “Society 5.0.” Drawing on Japan’s Meanwhile, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd. (NICOS) posted a loss for the second distinctive strengths, this initiative will use digital innovation to improve public welfare and consecutive year. This was due largely to posted expenses for structural reforms to improve help transform society. To extend the initiative’s reach into broad spheres of society—not performance in the fiscal year starting in April 2017. Looking ahead, we intend to allocate just the economy—essential industries such as ours must collaborate to develop solutions groupwide management resources to NICOS, which we have positioned as a platform for to difficult problems. The spirit behind this initiative is a positive sign on the domestic front. our payment-services business and have decided to make a wholly owned subsidiary. Moreover, ACOM Co., Ltd., also recorded a loss, partly because of additional provision for But what about the global economy? True, it appears on a recovery track, but a number of losses on interest repayment because the number of refund claims has not declined as issues must be addressed. One burning topic is whether or not sustainable growth is even steadily as we expected. feasible. Can the world community appropriately cope with volatile regional and political schisms? Also obviously, the threat of international terrorism poses a looming risk and may Profits at Japanese Corporate Banking also dropped, due largely to fewer loans and lower further destabilize already shaky social and political structures. Meanwhile, new capabilities deposit revenues. However, there are signs that the current pace of decline in lending for nuclear warfare are on the verge of becoming a real possibility for a regime near margins is slowing. And we are now offering attractive products such as hybrid loans. Japan—a threat not just to its neighbors but the entire globe. These meet the capital-funding needs of listed major corporations responding to the growing trend toward avoiding stock dilution. Also, we are starting to see positive results We must be vigilant at home and abroad, keeping in mind the social and economic from our decision last year to simplify reporting lines and integrate our management implications if any of these threats materialize into stark reality. framework for servicing Japanese corporates at home and abroad—and we will do more in the coming year. We also made solid progress in reducing equity holdings and are in fact The Operating Environment Surrounding the Financial Industry ahead of plan. Against that backdrop, the financial industry is facing its own immediate and potential long-term issues. Among the most severe short-term concerns are the dwindling These are all positive signs, but we need more assertive steps to reverse our prolonged opportunities to create new business in a market mired in stagnant growth, and ongoing decline in profits. These may even include fundamentally reforming our conventional challenges posed by low, or even negative, interest rates. lending-based business model, which depends deeply on interest income. Fears are growing that any momentum shown by the global economy may be suppressed Meanwhile, our global banking business has grown steadily. Under strong leadership from if the U.S.—the world’s leading economic powerhouse—adopts protectionist policies that its newly appointed CEO, our U.S. operations have bolstered segment strategies, inhibit international trade and investment. Developed countries would find it harder to strengthened cross-selling in Corporate Banking, restructured Retail and Commercial move beyond the monetary-easing policies they have instituted at unprecedented levels. Banking, and reduced costs on a sustainable basis. In Thailand, the Bank of Ayudhya Once this cycle sets in, the low interest-rate environment could well entrench, and financial (Krungsri) has expanded its business, maintaining stability and the quality of its asset institutions could face an almost intractable struggle. portfolio while solidifying its rank among the top five banks in the country. There are bright spots, however. We anticipate a fresh wave of digital innovation that could We are encouraged by this progress in key global markets, while acknowledging some help address both short-term and long-term concerns. Of course, this innovation could major challenges. These include upgrading our global governance structure, responding also raise challenges. Newcomers may leverage it to lure share from established players appropriately to evolving U.S. and global regulatory requirements and managing their slow to respond to market trends. On the other hand, established players who make bold compliance costs, reviewing our business investment and networks, and enhancing our use of innovative IT could break through with technologies and business models that are IT platforms. user-friendly and productive. 12 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 13 Management Message Message from the CEO Profits at Investor Services / Asset Management declined due largely to the dissolution of Second, imminent global financial regulations will place tighter restrictions on capital and our domestic Employees’ Pension Fund plans, and stagnation in the investment trust liquidity—both essential to business expansion—and drive up the cost of compliance. Third, market. However, global Investor Services has grown considerably over the past four years widespread digitalization has dramatically outpaced projections. True, it will open huge and is now capable of a wide range of fund administration services, including those related opportunities to reform our business model, but by the same token, newcomers armed to hedge funds, private equity, and U.S. 40 Acts. To build on this momentum, we will focus with digital innovations can threaten our base. on fortifying profits by expanding our client base and reducing costs. Also, to satisfy our current medium-term business plan, we will step up our efforts to make inorganic These projections have prompted us to a sense of urgency. In summer 2016, we launched investments in our asset management business. a dedicated project team that, by design, includes young leadership representing the future of MUFG’s operating units. After thoroughly reviewing our operations and Our global markets business underwent major changes this past year. In Sales and Trading, management structure, the team formulated the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy, a set of we began integrating our Bank and our Securities Company businesses in Japan and pivotal policies to guide our business strategies. overseas. This helped grow profits, particularly from overseas operations. Although interest income and other revenues declined in Japan, growth in revenues from operations in the As we discuss the upcoming renewal of our medium-term business plan, we will form U.S., Europe, and Asian countries outside Japan largely compensated, with overseas action plans based on macro policies laid out in the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy and operations accounting for more than 50% of our total profit. On the other hand, we initiate the second phase of our reforms. The underlying theme of this phase is “a shift to a drastically reduced the risk in banking ALM by decreasing balances and shortening management approach that is simple, speedy and transparent.” durations, even though these operations performed well in the first half of the year. We did this to protect operations against the correction phase of yen interest rates, and the effects Our MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy is presented more fully later in these pages, but let me of hikes in U.S. interest rates, along with other factors adding more uncertainty. As a result, describe its four supporting pillars here. profits in this business declined significantly. Going forward, we will tackle the immediate challenge of optimizing banking ALM portfolio to ensure stable, ongoing profit. The first pillar is “Strengthening our management approach based on customerand business-based segments.” MUFG’s longstanding operational philosophy has been to Policies for the Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2018 and Beyond facilitate each unit’s standalone superiority in its niche. However, our current view of an At the beginning of fiscal 2017, we entered the final year of our current medium-term overarching mission is more comprehensive and outward-facing: We aim as a team to business plan. Although it’s highly likely we will reach our Common Equity Tier 1 Capital deliver optimal solutions to customers—individuals, corporations, and institutional Ratio target, it’s unlikely we will reach our targets for earnings per share (EPS), which investors—each of whom faces unique challenges. This, to us, is a large part of what it represents growth; or for return on equity (ROE) and the expense ratio, which together means to fulfill our responsibilities. indicate profitability. We also need to pay close attention to the effects of Basel III revisions, the introduction of Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) requirements, and other impending global financial regulations that may impose harsher restrictions on our capital-investment decisions. Design detail / Net operating Decided direction Fully launch Gross profits Cost reduction partially launch profits May 2017 from Apr 2018 ¥180 bn ¥120 bn by Mar 2018 ¥300 bn To strengthen our ability to adapt to new restrictions, our priorities in the next medium-term business plan will include making better use of our capital through a note Figures are rough estimation in FY2023 disciplined mindset finely tuned to returns on risk. At the same time, we will implement a balanced capital policy aimed at financial strength and enhanced shareholder returns. This 1. Strengthening our management approach based on 4. Reorganization of MUFG Group management structure customerand business-based segments will help us maintain stable ROE at a level higher than capital costs, which will require a (1) Integrate corporate loan-related business of the Bank and framework to improve return on risk-weighted assets (RORA), particularly in commercial (1) Further Wealth Management strategy the Trust Bank banking. At the same time, we intend to assure sustainable growth through the MUFG (2) Reinforce business with large companies with group• Establish the most suitable formation to service our corporate unified service and global platform clients as one group Re-Imagining Strategy and its robust initiatives, as described below. (3) Accelerate Asset Management business • Clarify the mission and responsibility of each group member (4) Enhance Payment Platform The MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy (2) Strengthen AM and IS businesses — New trust banking model • Accelerate AM and IS businesses as growth area for group One truth has become clear: A business model centered on conventional commercial 2. Business transformation through the use of digital • Make Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management a wholly banking is no longer sustainable and must be reformed. This is why our current technology owned subsidiary of the Trust Bank medium-term business plan promotes reforms that rely heavily on three umbrella themes: (1) Improve customer convenience (3) Review customer segmentation “Focusing on the customer perspective,” “Taking a Group-driven approach,” and “Making (2) Business process reengineering • Integrate Japanese retail banking and SME segments • Reorganize Japanese large corporate and global corporate productivity improvements.” These reforms are meant to address challenges we anticipate (3) Reform customer interface channels domestically and segments respectively, each of which is managed globally globally from structural changes in society and economies over the next ten years. This still holds across geographical boundaries true. But we have to intensify our efforts because the pace of change is much faster than (4) Establish the framework to promote our digital strategy 3. Initiatives to improve productivity • Appoint a Chief Digital Transformation Officer (CDTO) we could have envisioned when we planned these reforms. • Establish Digital Transformation Division (1) Strategically review portfolio of existing investment in affiliates (5) Reinforce retail payment business We need a radical new approach for at least three reasons. First, we are certain that top-line (2) Optimizing human resource allocation on a group-basis • Make NICOS a wholly owned company of MUFG revenues from our existing businesses will fall far short of initial estimates, due to an (3) Working-Style reforms (increase time to face customers) (6) Rename the commercial bank as “MUFG Bank” ongoing worldwide trend toward ultra-low-interest rates and anemic economic growth. 14 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 15 Management Message Message from the CEO This requires us to change our approach from supervising a set of affiliated operating integrating domestic retail banking and smalland medium-sized enterprise (SME) companies that run their respective businesses autonomously, to establishing an segments of the Bank. We will also migrate to a global management structure in our service overarching structure that freely mobilizes the functions, products, and services of each to large Japanese corporates and large global corporates alike. Both structures will company. This new approach facilitates the environment we want to create, where transcend geographical boundaries, and—in line with our policy of integrating overlapping resources can be drawn from anywhere and, most important, any activity can center on functions and clarifying the mission of each operating company—we will transfer the Trust satisfying customer needs. Bank’s corporate lending business to the Bank. At the same time, we will make Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Trust Bank, One way to do this is to create a single point of contact for the customer. We can also which will position asset management as its core business. And, as mentioned, we will eliminate functional overlaps, clarify the mission of each operating unit, and free them to make NICOS a wholly owned subsidiary of MUFG. concentrate resources on pursuing their mission through their core expertise. When we complete these reorganizations, we will have created a globally unified brand we To help achieve this, we are establishing a new brand that encompasses all the group’s can present to customers worldwide, showing an integrated structure capable of wealth management functions; building an integrated marketing platform—a combination marshaling groupwide resources on their behalf. The upcoming rebranding of the Bank to of the Bank, the Trust Bank, and the Securities Business—that serves global corporations; “MUFG Bank” in overseas markets is in line with this brand strategy. pursuing inorganic expansion in the global asset management business undertaken by the Trust Bank, through executing majority investment; and launching groupwide payment The MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy aims to boost net operating profits by ¥300 billion over services employing the NICOS platform. seven years. ¥180 billion of this will come from increased profits, while ¥120 billion will come from reduced costs, mostly through digitalization. We calculate these figures by The second pillar is “Business transformation through the use of digital technology.” We will assessing approximately 70 individual measures and their possible effects, feasibility, promote our initiatives in three areas. and timelines. One, we will create new businesses to make banking more convenient for customers. In Upgrading Our Governance Framework addition to improving the customer experience through simple and easy-to-understand We cannot live up to the expectations of stakeholders—and sustainably grow at the same mobile interfaces, we will promote cashless transactions and digitalize residential mortgage time—without a robust, transparent corporate governance framework. We have loans. We will also deepen our marketing capabilities through data analysis. endeavored to establish such a framework since the founding of MUFG. Two, we will re-engineer our business processes. We will infuse our operations, from Soon after MUFG’s transition to a “Company with Three Committees” structure in 2015, frontline to back office, with digital technologies that improve the entire process, with the three core subsidiaries also adopted a “Companies with Supervisory Committees” system. aim of reducing total workloads 30%—equivalent to the labor of 9,500 personnel in our And we have appointed outside directors with diverse backgrounds while creating home market. non-mandatory governance-related committees. Now, having expanded the Board’s diversity, we will focus on developing an inclusive pool of successor candidates, and And three, we will reform customer interface channels, domestically and globally. formulating succession plans for outside directors. Specifically, we will expand service channels supported by a “virtual branch” and, at the same time, strengthen advisory services that require direct human interaction at physical MUFG has made steady progress in strengthening governance functions, namely: branch locations. This will lead the way toward next-generation bank branches. Another streamlining the selection of agenda items at Board of Directors meetings to allow plenty key reform will be in system design and development methodology. Stable, robust, and of time for discussion; simplifying meeting materials and clarifying points to be discussed; secure systems will always be absolutely crucial, of course, but in specific areas that require enriching the content of information provided to outside directors; and conducting off-site enhanced UI/UX both for customers and colleagues, we need to add an “Agile” dimension. meetings to allow deep dives into strategic matters. Under the initiative of its Lead Director, This will also be applicable to our legacy platforms and promote a switchover to MUFG also convenes meetings to facilitate communication with operating units’ board cloud computing. members. In addition, MUFG’s management team holds discussions with independent directors who serve at an intermediate holding company (IHC) in the U.S. Furthermore, the The third pillar is “Initiatives to improve productivity.” Our current medium-term business MUFG Audit Committee engages in deliberation with each operating unit’s board of plan calls for better productivity in three asset areas—human, capital, and investment. To corporate auditors. And importantly, MUFG’s independent directors participated in speed results, we will optimize staffing through digitalization while reforming work styles. discussions leading to the formulation of the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy. Management We will also free our groupwide human resources from the confines of a single business benefitted from these directors’ insights and kept them in the loop on progress. unit, and develop a unified human-resource management system. As for capital and investment, we will upgrade management systems to support our risk-weighted asset, Thanks to these efforts, the latest Board of Directors self-evaluation process confirmed liquidity, and cost return. And we will strategically reassess the efficiency of our existing improvements on a number of fronts. However, the Board unanimously agreed we need to investment outlets—in Japan and globally—and use what we learn to optimize our portfolio. optimize its mix to better deal with the globalization of MUFG Group operations. Currently, This will help improve ROE. around 40% of our shareholders are foreign institutions, approximately the same as the ratio of our overseas colleagues to the total group workforce. Overseas revenues also The fourth pillar is the “Reorganization of MUFG Group management structure.” While the account for around 40% of net operating profit of our total customer segment. first pillar strengthens our management approach based on customerand business-based Accordingly, board members have been quick to identify the urgent need for non-Japanese segments, the fourth pillar reassesses our customer segmentation with an eye toward directors. This is why, at the recent Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, two foreign 16 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 17 Management Message Message from the CEO nationals were appointed as directors: Mr. Toby S. Myerson, an attorney with extensive expertise in cross-border M&A and who concurrently holds the post of Lead Director at the U.S. subsidiary Mitsubishi UFJ Americas Holdings; and Ms. Tarisa Watanagase, former Governor of the Bank of Thailand. We have positioned the U.S. and Asia as strategic markets for our overseas operations and are confident these appointments will prove beneficial. The Board also recognizes the need for more robust succession plans, as well as the need to nurture future leaders. In May 2017, the president of the Bank stepped down partway through his term of office, sadly due to health issues. The Nominating and Governance Committee moved swiftly to select his successor, preempting major disruptions. We attribute this decisiveness to our steady progress since 2015 in building a framework for succession plans. Objectives included clear transition principles for both emergency contingency planning and for standard succession planning. Although the circumstances of our president’s resignation were truly unfortunate, we were gratified to see our preparations pay off with a smooth transition. We will keep working to build the number of management candidates with top leadership potential, and will develop programs to educate prospects who may become MUFG leaders two generations from now. Of course, succession plans must cover outside directors as well. Even though we have To help households develop investment strategies, MUFG can play the dual role of asset optimized the composition of our Board of Directors in terms of experience, fields of manager and distribution resource; we have Japan’s greatest capacities in those two fields, specialty, and geographical diversity, it is hard to maintain an ideal balance while avoiding given our expertise and extensive branch network. the drawbacks of a fixed membership. This is why, in the year ending March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors will discuss the possibility of creating a more clearly defined set of As an asset manager, the Trust Bank strives for best practices in management policies that requirements for director candidates, and setting limits on re-appointment. Regarding conform to Stewardship Codes. This helps avoid conflicts of interest and creates clear governance of Group operating companies, MUFG’s Nominating and Governance standards for voting rights and disclosure of voting results. The Trust Bank has a proud Committee will review the current “Advisor” system at each operating unit. track record in these matters, due to its high standards of researching and executing fiduciary duties in pension planning. With the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy identifying Addressing Environmental & Social Issues through Business Activity asset management as the Trust Bank’s core business, and with Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Earlier, I discussed our solemn obligation to take action on social issues. Specifically, we Management Co., Ltd., being made a wholly owned subsidiary, our focus on asset need to consider what role we can play as a prominent global financial group based in management is stronger than ever. Japan. Our obligation lies partly in response to the realities of an aging population, a declining birthrate, and the effects of these factors on social sustainability. In addition, as a As for our role as a distribution resource, our group companies have been industry leaders financial group operating on a global basis, we must ask ourselves what we can do to in forming fiduciary-duty policies and designating relevant key performance indicators. counter climate change, regarded as a major contributor to natural disasters around Although the government has articulated a “shift from savings to stable asset building” as a the world. major policy, it will take time and effort before the nation sees results. So in the meantime, we will develop educational programs for potential investors, ranging from inexperienced Today, most business leaders agree that one of the purposes of business is to help solve young people to established business professionals. issues confronting society, and to create shared value. This is certainly true in Japan; the idea dates back centuries, expressed in an old maxim that every business must benefit the MUFG has a robust track record in helping and nurturing SMEs in Japan; it is part of our seller, the buyer, and society as a whole. A modern-day equivalent is the use of day-to-day heritage dating back centuries through our predecessor companies. More Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) criteria to evaluate corporate activities, a recently, we have been organizing large “business matching” events, a kind of referral practice becoming more commonplace. Just last year, Japan’s Financial Services Agency service in which we arrange introductions among business-partner candidates selected formally included the concept of “creating shared value” in its Strategic Directions from our roster of corporate customers, based on their needs. So far, we have hosted 14 of and Priorities. these events, with attendees from 37,000 companies and resulting in 77,000 negotiated business arrangements. It is well known that Japan’s industrial sector is supported by We fully agree with this concept and place great emphasis on helping preserve the numerous SMEs with superior technological strengths in manufacturing. With this in mind, environment and contributing to society through healthy business activity. and despite a longstanding deflationary economy, MUFG systematically supports SMEs looking for business opportunities rather than funding. In terms of social contribution, we are striving to help invigorate the economy and build a sustainable society, with each group company doing its part in its area of expertise. In this We sponsor the “Rise Up Festa,” a competition supporting startup businesses, as well as the regard, MUFG generally places particular importance on supporting more-sophisticated “MUFG FinTech Accelerator Program.” With these tools, we aid in the discovery of new investment strategies for households, and assisting SMEs. technologies and business models while encouraging high-tech entrepreneurship and helping bolster the Japanese business sector. 18 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 19 Management Message Message from the CEO We consider supporting SMEs as part of our heritage of planting deep local roots in the and giving them reasons to take pride in being part of MUFG. communities we serve. We aim to invigorate stagnant local economies—a longstanding issue in Japan. According to a survey last year, the majority of MUFG colleagues has a high level of satisfaction with work life, and feels a sense of “belonging” at MUFG—more so than peers MUFG considers it a core responsibility to conduct business in an environmentally do at other financial institutions. That is good news, but much remains to be done. responsible manner, and we have long embraced environmental preservation activities, including countering climate change. For example, we were early financers of renewableThis includes promoting workforce diversity. To help female colleagues strike a productive energy businesses involved in solar, hydroelectric, wind, and geothermal power generation. balance between work and parenting, MUFG has introduced support systems, such as an Thanks to our world-leading expertise in this field, MUFG’s project finance track record is in-house concierge service and a company-sponsored childcare facility. Thanks to this and consistently ranked in the top echelon of financing renewable energy. To raise investment other initiatives to help them smoothly re-enter the workplace after childbirth, the number funds, in September 2016 we issued “Green Bonds” to conform to the latest global financial of domestic MUFG colleagues on childcare leave has grown to more than 3,300, well regulations. Securities also boasts a proven track record in consulting services that help above other Japanese corporations. As for our efforts to offer women greater career businesses in emerging nations reduce greenhouse gas emissions. opportunities, the ratio of female colleagues in managerial positions has reached 19.2%, approaching our current target of 20%. However, the number of female leaders in top In June 2017, members of the Board of Directors discussed how to ensure ESG management positions is still insufficient. We have made some progress—for instance, management at MUFG and how we should address environmental and social issues as a appointing another female director to the MUFG board and the first female executive matter of course. We intend to keep helping resolve social issues while upgrading our officer at the Bank—but we must redouble our efforts to nurture and cultivate female talent management of environmental and social risks. Implementing these and other strategies to for executive positions. create value over the long term, MUFG will work to live up to expectations of stakeholders around the globe. In Conclusion Last year, while discussing the “MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy” with our next generation of Developing Human Resources while Promoting Diversity leaders, I became acutely aware of how our deep-rooted corporate culture prioritizes the Ultimately, the value of our products and services to customers and society depends on lending business above all else. It is time to break with this culture. We are committed to unlocking the potential within our colleagues. Tapping this power of “human capital,” we being a financial group genuinely capable of meeting diverse customer needs. To this end, can help colleagues reach high and inspire them to do their best. We also must promote we are striving to deliver truly valuable and seamless services to a broad range of their long-term career development by supporting Human Resources as it provides customers in a timely manner. This is also my personal commitment and is fully reflected in necessary tools. The quality of the working environment is also key. We believe senior the “MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy.” leadership is responsible for creating a vibrant workplace that embraces creativity and allows a diverse team of colleagues to energize each other and aim with confidence for Our reforms are meant to ensure sustainable, mutual development for the Group and all its ambitious targets. stakeholders. That is how we will contribute to a strong social fabric at home and abroad. Furthermore, we will share the fruits of these reforms with our stakeholders by enhancing MUFG offers various career paths based on goals each colleague sets voluntarily, and shareholder returns, improving the quality of our services beyond customer expectations, provides individually tailored career-development training that differs by job category and and creating a rewarding workplace for colleagues. We will contribute to society and help position. In recent years, we have seen a growing need for talent capable of leading global preserve the global environment through our business activities. As an institution that operations. So we have been identifying leadership talent in search of candidates who functions as part of society’s foundation and helps provide its lifeblood, we are determined transcend the traditional boundaries of business segments. We also have sought to and honored to fulfill these duties. develop these candidates’ skill sets so they are prepared for future career advancements. We host seminars to develop next-generation leaders, and I personally enjoy visiting these We are hard at work to earn a reputation as the world’s most-trusted financial group. To that events to observe and give feedback on presentations by participants who show amazing end, we pledge to do our best to make structural reforms now, so we can pass a legacy of potential. In fact, many initiatives in the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy are based on ideas earned trust into the hands of future generations at MUFG. from the rising talent so abundant at these events. We ask for your continued understanding and support as we devote ourselves to these We also need to step up business reforms through digitalization, in two areas. First, worthy goals. developing capable talent. We not only have to raise top management’s awareness; we need initiatives to create new business and push end-to-end process reforms. Second, we must train those in positions likely to be replaced by digital technologies so they can flourish in new roles that require creativity. July 2017 In Japan, government-led “Work Style Reforms” are now underway. To help counter a labor shortage due to an aging and shrinking population, these reforms promote women’s participation in the workforce and counteract socioeconomic forces suppressing the birth rate. They also promote industrial productivity, where Japan lags behind its peers. As a participant in these reforms, MUFG has identified three key initiatives: helping colleagues Nobuyuki Hirano find an optimal work-life balance; offering them opportunities to pursue self-development; Director, President & Group CEO 20 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 21 Management Message Business transformation through the use of Meanwhile, MUFG will make Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS a MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy—Building Anew at MUFG digital technology wholly owned subsidiary, aiming to better leverage the Digitalization is key to MUFG’s future. To MUFG, it subsidiary’s capacity as a settlement platform that will, Operating environments surrounding MUFG have drastically changed from those prevailing at the time of the doesn’t mean “replacing human workers with in turn, drive the creation of value-added services and current medium-term business plan was formulated. Regardless, MUFG aims to remain a financial group machines.” Rather, our focus is to utilize digitalization to boost the group’s settlement business. Using this move capable of achieving sustainable growth by quickly adapting to structural changes in operating environments at better serve our customers by creating products and as a springboard, we will accelerate our structural home and abroad. To that end, we announced the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy in May 2017. services that are simpler and easy to use. reforms, our pursuit of synergies of group operations Simultaneously, we will utilize it to streamline and the digitalization of the entire group. Taking an integrated group-based management approach that is simple, speedy and transparent, MUFG is operational process supporting such offerings. committed to delivering the best value to its customers, employees, shareholders and all other stakeholders. Initiatives to improve productivity Moreover, MUFG will provide solutions for issues society is confronting through its business activities. In these Today, customers’ preferences and behavior patterns We aspire to better serve customer needs by effectively ways, we will contribute to the sustainable development and betterment of society. are radically changing on the back of such factors as utilizing our limited management resources. We also the widespread use of mobile devices and the aim to help each employee realize their full potential. advancing aging of populations. Taking changing To this end, we will carry out “optimization” by rallying social trends and customer needs into account, MUFG groupwide strengths. Strengthening our management approach we will reorganize operations for ease of management will strive to develop optimal channels as a Group. based on customerand business-based across geographical boundaries. In these ways, we will be Specifically, we have positioned “user-friendly,” For example, we will optimize our strategic investment segments better set to address sophisticated and diverse “speedy,” “frictionless” and “location-free” as key portfolio while giving due consideration to capital Working as one, group companies pursue the common customer needs. concepts for our “channel reforms.” By doing so, we discipline and RWA regulations. We will also pursue goal of going beyond the boundaries of conventional will provide easy-to-use, simpler services that can be opportunities to achieve inorganic growth in strategic business categories and geographical regions to deliver At the same time, we are striving to establish a new trust accessed anywhere, anytime, eliminating the need for areas. greater value to customers. banking model, with the Trust Bank placing particular undergoing burdensome procedures or switching from focus on the investor services and asset management among service interfaces. Moreover, we will leverage digitalization to create a For example, MUFG executes wealth management businesses—key growth drivers for the Group. In working environment that allows employees to strategies aimed at seamlessly providing individual furtherance of efforts aimed at stepping up the asset Efforts are now under way to develop a robust concentrate on duties that lead to the creation of customers with diverse solutions that draw on its management business, we will make Mitsubishi UFJ framework for driving the aforementioned reforms. The greater value. We will also encourage them to pursue distinctive strength in comprehensive financial services. Kokusai Asset Management Co., Ltd. a wholly owned Digital Innovation Division will be reorganized and self-development and to satisfy their intellectual subsidiary of the Trust Bank. We will also accelerate renamed to the Digital Transformation Division, with ambitions. In short, we will endeavor to develop a As for corporate customers, we aim to establish an overseas expansion with an eye to securing majority greater resources allocated to digital transformation. workplace in which everyone finds his/her pursuit of a optimal structure that enables us to offer client services investments. In the investor services business, we will Furthermore, we will appoint a Chief Digital professional career rewarding. as one group and, to this end, will transfer the Trust Bank’s strive to establish the “MUFG investor services brand” to Transformation Officer (CDTO). These moves will corporate loan-related business to the Bank. As for the become a global player boasting a strong presence. accelerate our digital strategies. Japanese large corporate and global corporate segments, Framework for promoting digitalization Appoint CDTO Establish “Digital Transformation Division” Establish “Digital Transformation Committee” Clarify the mission and responsibilities of the Bank, the Trust Bank, and the Securities Business Holdings MUFG CEO Digital Transformation Committee The Bank The Trust Bank The Securities Business Holdings Heads of CIO CDTO business Corporatelending etc. unit Chief executive for MUFG’s digital transformation Developing a “trust-oriented Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai AM share consulting and solution business” Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai AM share Digital Transformation Division Systems Operations Change agent for promoting individual projects Business groups toward MUFG’s digital transformation Plan and development Reform operation for IT systems processes Commercial banking, settlement, IS/AM, real estate, pension, corporate Investment banking, sales & trading, AM solution business, etc. agency, inheritance business, etc. business, etc. Innovation Lab Aim for “Frictionless” society by integrating banking experience and areas of mobility, etc. 22 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 23 Management Message MUFG’s Digital Strategies Collaboration with Alpaca for individual investors based on Alpaca’s chart image AlpacaDB, Inc. is a venture company pursuing the recognition services. Also, Jibun Bank Corporation creation of unconventional services with the fusion of began providing an AI-based foreign currency deposit Moving beyond FinTech finance and AI. In August 2016, Alpaca was chosen to receive the second prize at the Accelerator Program management assistance tool with prediction capabilities. Furthermore, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Fostering Open Innovation for Future Generations sponsored by MUFG. UFJ is looking to create market forecast, news analysis and other AI-driven trading assistance functions. Currently, Alpaca is involved in several projects at MUFG boasts extensive expertise in the financial business and over time has built a reputation for MUFG that leverage its strength in the area of deep MUFG will continuously endeavor to create trustworthiness. FinTech startups offer novel ideas for innovative services. Combining the strengths of the two, learning. For example, kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd. unconventional services through collaboration with we are about to launch unconventional services that boast superior user convenience while ensuring security. released “AlpacaSearch for kabu.com,” an analysis tool external corporations. Provision of MUFG APIs Participating in a Next-Generation Settlement Among the trends in software and web-service Network Lead by Ripple Inc. The Bank of Tokyokabu.com Securities Jibun Bank technologies, Open API* is an open innovation initiative The U.S.-based Ripple Inc. has developed a new Mitsubishi UFJ a number of corporates are utilizing to make their technology that enables the development of a global programs available to external parties via the Internet. transfer network and is expected to provide a Using APIs, third-party corporations can access these settlement solution for future generations. Along with Online stock trade Foreign currency deposits Trading programs and combine them with their own messaging functions, the resulting transfer network will technologies and ideas, thereby leading to the release boast real-time transfer and settlement capabilities of novel services. thanks to the application of blockchain related cuttingEstablish market forecast Provide chart analysis edge technologies. Offer support tools (market model service based on AI-driven Remaining on-trend with advances in these areas, in forecast utilizing AI) digital image recognition AI trader March 2016 MUFG became the first domestic bank to MUFG participates in the domestic consortium to host a “hackathon” event in which external developers discuss the commercialization of this technology. compete to create new services that employ banking Moreover, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ became the APIs. In April 2017, MUFG also made its APIs for the first Asian bank to contribute to discussions at the BizSTATION corporate online banking service available global advisory board with regard to the formulation of Assist investors with search for stock candidates Aim to provide a deposit to external partners, initiating collaborative rules governing global settlement networks. Employ deep learning to optimized for a “pairs product that uses an AIdevelopment. realize automated and more trading” strategy, thereby based investment decision efficient trading Once this network is established and available to users, providing greater user assistant Going forward, we will strive to create innovative it will realize domestic and international settlements convenience services through the provision of new APIs and that require less time to complete while being safer partnership with external companies. and more efficient. proof of concept aimed at putting the technology into commercial use at the earliest * Application Programming Interface: A set of programming instructions and standards for accessing a software application possible date is now under way in fiscal 2017. Initiating a Trial Use of MUFG Coin Although banknotes and coins can be used anywhere MUFG Coin will provide new settlement experiences, in their currency zone, the significant toll in terms of such as the ability to make “micropayments” in decimal cost and time required for the procurement, storage value increments. Moreover, corporate users will be and transport of these instruments is often overlooked. able to allocate surpluses derived from reductions in With an eye to bringing innovation in the field of virtual costs to increase benefits for individual customers. As currencies, MUFG is developing a low-cost cashless such, MUFG Coin are expected to enhance economic finance infrastructure by leveraging blockchain activities by fully leveraging the strength of technologies, with the goal of releasing “MUFG Coin”— virtual coins. a convenient digital payment instrument that help facilitate the realization of a cashless society in Japan. In May 2017, MUFG launched the trial of these coins for in-house use. Discussions toward their release to the In addition to their instantaneous transfer capabilities, general public are now under way. 24 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 25 Management Message Message from the CFO subsidiaries supervised by MUFG Americas Holdings Capital Ratio—the most important indicator representing Pursuing Sustainable Growth for the Group through Corporation (hereafter “the Americas HD”), an the soundness of financial institutions). intermediate holding company, as well as Bank of Ayudhya (hereafter “Krungsri”) in Thailand, enjoyed profit As our CEO, Mr. Nobuyuki Hirano, describes in his Solid Financial and Capital Management growth. In addition, Morgan Stanley—approximately 23% of whose equity stake is held by MUFG— contributed to message appearing earlier in this report, the operating environment surrounding MUFG has become even harder our profits attributable to owners of parent as an equitythan that which existed at the time we announced the We are now in fiscal 2017, the final year of the current medium-term business plan and, as the CFO of MUFG, I would like method investee. current medium-term business plan. Today, our mainstay to lay out the initiatives that the Group will be undertaking under my direction as well as the Group’s future outlook. commercial banking business, which has long been Breakdown of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent* relying on net interest income from domestic operations, (Billions of Yen) MUFG is exposed to structural and prolonged trend toward 1,000 the Securities Business-HD Morgan Others Consolidated profit decrease. Moreover, it will be hard for us to 49.0 Stanley 30.8 926.4 the Americas HD 137.6 continue to increase risk weighted assets by more than 900 101.9 10% annually for our overseas credit business that has in Krungsri 800 the Trust Bank 57.9 recent years enjoyed rising profits, due to regulations Non-consolidated NICOS 120.2 (23.9) ACOM requiring us to secure foreign currency liquidity and 700 the Bank (28.8) external credit ratings. Non-consolidated 600 481.4 Provision of allowance for excess interest repayment On the expense side, for the time being we expect to see 500 (57.4) a steady rise in expenses for financial regulatory compliance purposes, especially those of countries July 2017 400 Structural reform expenses (12.7) Reversal of deferred tax assets (6.4) overseas. In addition, rapid advance of digital innovation Provision of allowance for excess interest repayment (9.4) 0 and emergence of FinTech startups will bring drastic * The above figures take into consideration the percentage holding in each subsidiary and changes in the operating environment that will make the equity method investee (after-tax basis) financial-services arena more competitive. Fiscal 2017 Outlook and Progress in the MediumThe Establishment of the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy Muneaki Tokunari Term Business Plan Taking these circumstances into consideration, we Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, The operating environment is expected to remain tough established and announced the MUFG Re-Imagining Group CFO in fiscal 2017 due to such factors as the prolonged ultraStrategy, aimed at realizing sustainable growth for the low interest rate environment in Japan, a situation we Group through execution of approximately 70 concrete anticipate will keep net operating profits weak. measures. Should the strategy be successfully Fiscal 2016 Business Results gains on equity securities increased ¥36.6 billion year-onNevertheless, we will aim for a 3% or so year-on-year implemented through fiscal 2023 – the final year of a Throughout fiscal 2016, which ended March 31, 2017, the year, thanks to progress in sales of equity holdings. improvement in profits attributable to owners of the medium-term business plan slated to take over from the ultra-low interest rate environment continued in Japan Non-recurring losses grew year-on-year due to such parent to around ¥950.0 billion by, for example, pushing next medium-term business plan – the effect of these due to a “quantitative and qualitative monetary easing factors as an increase in cost of retirement benefits, while forward with sales of equity holdings and increasing measures on profitability will total around ¥300 billion. Of with negative interest rates” policy undertaken by the tax expenses decreased in line with a decline in the tax earnings from overseas subsidiaries and affiliates. this, approximately ¥180 billion will be due to an Bank of Japan. Overseas, such developments as the burden ratio. As it embarks on the final year of the current mediumimprovement in annual gross profits, while ¥120 billion results of the Brexit referendum and the election of a new term business plan, MUFG is pursuing multiple financial will be attributable to cost reductions. (For more details, U.S. president have led to major fluctuations in the Taking all this into account, profits attributable to owners targets representing its growth, profitability and financial refer to “the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy” on page 14.) financial market. Against this backdrop, MUFG’s gross of parent totaled ¥926.4 billion, which represents an strength. Given annual operating results under the plan profits totaled ¥4,011.8 billion, down approximately 3% approximately 3% year-on-year decrease but exceeds the to date and the targets for fiscal 2017, we clearly need to We will create the next medium-term business plan year-on-year. Key factors contributing to this decrease previously announced target of ¥850.0 billion. redouble our efforts to achieve financial targets for starting in April 2018 incorporating the key concepts laid included a decline in net interest income in Japan that growth (EPS) and profitability (ROE and Expenses Ratio), out in the MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy. Even before reflected the low interest-rate environment; sluggish Looking at profits attributable to owners of parent by even though it seems quite likely that we will achieve our creating the plan, however, we will accelerate execution investment product sales in the retail business segment subsidiary and affiliate, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ target for financial strength (the Common Equity Tier 1 of the concrete measures where possible. in the first half; and a fall in market-related profits in the (hereafter “the Bank”), Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking second half due to increases in interest rates in such (hereafter “the Trust Bank”) and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Financial Targets of the Medium-Term Business Plan countries as the United States. Holdings (hereafter “the Securities Business-HD”) all saw positive results. However, both Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS FY 2017 (Targets) Metrics FY 2015 (Results) FY 2016 (Results) (Mid-term biz plan) Overall expenses stayed virtually unchanged compared (hereafter “NICOS”) and ACOM posted a loss due to the ¥68.28 Increase 15% or more with the previous fiscal year, thanks to the success of recording of provisions of allowance for excess interest Growth EPS (Yen) ¥68.51 (6%) from FY 2014 from FY 2014 across-the-board cost control efforts and the effect of repayment. Even though the loss posted by NICOS was Japanese yen appreciation, despite higher expenses for up year-on-year due to recording of structural reformROE (MUFG definition)*1 7.63% 7.25% Between 8.5%-9.0% financial regulatory compliance purposes. As a result, net related expenses and reversal of deferred tax assets, we Profitability operating profits decreased approximately 9% year-onremain steadfast in our commitment to grow this Expenses ratio 62.3% 64.6% Approx. 60% year, to ¥1,418.2 billion. subsidiary into a core operating company of the group as Common Equity Tier 1 a payment platform. We consider this a crucial step in Financial Strength Capital Ratio 12.1% 11.9% 9.5% or above Credit costs decreased ¥99.7 billion compared with the assuring our readiness for future popularization of (Full implementation)*2 previous fiscal year, mainly due to an improvement in cashless and digital economies. *1 For details on calculation methods, please also see descriptions on ROE featured in “Financial Highlights” on page 6. credit quality of resourceand energy-related clients. Net Overseas, MUFG Union Bank, N.A. and other U.S. *2 Calculated on the basis of regulations applied at the end of March 2019 26 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 27 Management Message Message from the CFO Capital Management (2) Use of Capital to Strengthen Profitability stream of dividend payments into the future. (Fiscal 2016 Strategic investment that employs excess capital is a key annual dividends were ¥18 per share.) driver for achieving sustainable growth, as well as organic Basic Policy (Capital Triangle) growth based on our existing customer base Finally, we discuss whether or not to engage in and businesses. repurchase of our own shares. Based on a decision by the MUFG maintains a focus on capital management that Board of Directors, MUFG executed such repurchases on appropriately balances the maintenance of solid equity MUFG has been engaged in multiple major strategic two occasions in 2016, with the value of shares capital, strategic investments for sustainable growth, and (3) Further enhance shareholder returns investments and M&A projects. For example, MUFG repurchased totaling approximately ¥100 billion for each. further enhancement of shareholder returns. invested in Morgan Stanley while working in tandem with This was in part due to absence of an M&A or strategic this strategic partner to establish a domestic securities investment project requiring capital of more than ¥100 Our capital management policies have regularly been discussed as one of our most important management themes company. We also made a majority investment in Krungsri billion in the fiscal year under review. These dividends by the Board of Directors, which includes a majority of MUFG’s in Thailand. In October 2016, MUFG acquired a 23.0% and repurchases together constituted a total shareholder non-executive directors. For example, prior to the final Corporate equity stake (¥91.4 billion) in Hitachi Capital Corporation, return ratio of 47.9% for fiscal 2016. decision on repurchase of our own shares for fiscal 2016 at Value with the aim of enhancing the Group’s lease businesses the Board of Directors meeting, outside directors actively Maintain solid and assisting infrastructure development. In May 2017, discussed the matter with multiple different views on (1) equity capital (2) Strategic investments for sustainable growth Results and Forecasts of Dividend per Common Stock MUFG announced its decision to acquire an additional Dividend per common stock Dividend payout ratio* (right axis) necessity and amount of the repurchase. 15% equity stake in NICOS and make it a wholly owned subsidiary, a move aimed at accelerating structural (Yen) (%) reforms and expanding payment business. 20 50 As CFO, I consider capital discipline to be the most 40 15 (1) Maintenance of a Solid Capital Base Social and Governance (ESG) aspects of their investees. important factor when making a strategic investment MUFG has been designated one of the 30 Global By doing so, we became the first G-SIB in the world to decision. Prior to making such decisions, we therefore 30 Systemically Important Banks (hereafter “G-SIBs”) by the issue TLAC-eligible bonds that limit usage of the examine carefully whether expected return from the 10 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. At the same proceeds for renewable energy, including solar, wind and investment will exceed the cost of capital within a certain 12 12 12 13 16 18 18 18 18 20 time, MUFG is subject to the Basel III capital rules that other power generation. We are thus endeavoring to period of time. We also periodically conduct follow-up 5 require financial institutions to ensure the solidity of their capture an even broader and more diverse investor base, monitoring after the investment and are ready to take 10 capital base. with the aim of solidifying and stabilizing our funding actions including exit (withdrawal or sale) whenever sources. (For more details on Green Bonds, refer to investees fall short of our criteria for returns. 0 0 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 As of March 31, 2017, MUFG’s capital adequacy ratio—the “Environmental Initiatives” on page 49.) (Forecast) ratio of its core equity capital to its total risk-weighted (3) Further Enhancement of Shareholder Returns * FY 2011 figures do not include one-time effect of negative goodwill associated with the assets (based on the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Thanks to these efforts, estimated TLAC ratio of MUFG With regard to return to shareholders, we combine (1) application of equity method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley ratio)—was more than 11%, well exceeding the Basel III reached 15.8% (as of March 31, 2017), representing a payment of cash dividends as a primary measure and (2) regulatory minimum capital requirement of 8.5%. year-on-year improvement of 0.8 of a percentage point. repurchase of our own shares as a supplementary (Reference) FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 measure. The latter is expected to bring benefits to Total payout ratio 34.2% 47.2% 47.9% Securing Compliance with “TLAC Requirements” The Best Capital Mix shareholders, as it enhances capital efficiency (ROE) and Regulations on Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (hereafter Under Basel III capital rules, financial institutions are positively affects share prices in general. “TLAC”) requirements are expected to be enacted in allowed to include Additional Tier 1 Capital (e.g., perpetual Establishing a Policy for the Cancellation of Our Own March 2019 in Japan. These requirements are intended to subordinated debt) and Tier 2 Capital (e.g., subordinated Prior to a final decision on shareholder returns, we Shares ensure that such critical functions as settlement and term debt) into their regulatory capital. We aim to engage in discussion based on the “capital triangle” Previously, MUFG kept all the shares it repurchased in its remittance capabilities of a G-SIB will be maintained even combine these debt instruments efficiently in order to featured on page 28. First, we examine status of our possession, anticipating that it might need them if, in the if it fails. Drawing lessons from the financial crisis pursue what we call the “best capital mix”. It is one of my capital base in light of compliance with the relevant future, it should decide to engage in M&A that requires the triggered by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, which most important missions as CFO to improve ROE—an capital regulations and maintenance of our external use of such shares. However, as some shareholders forced European and the U.S. governments to inject indicator many shareholders closely monitor—while credit ratings. We do this to “Maintain solid equity capital” communicated their concerns about the risk of possible considerable amounts of public funds into failed financial satisfying regulatory requirements for capital adequacy as indicated at the lower left corner of the triangle. We stock dilution due to these shares’ release into stock institutions in order to bail out them, the TLAC ratios, by realizing this “best capital mix”. confirm status of our risk appetite, risk-weighted assets markets, we have adopted a new policy of limiting the ratio requirements mandate banking holding companies to and ongoing internal discussions related to M&A and of treasury stock to the total number of shares outstanding retain a certain amount of debt that can absorb losses In fiscal 2016 we issued various types of notes to diverse other strategic growth investments, giving due to approximately 5% or less. Accordingly, any treasury stock incurred at their subsidiary banks. Specifically, from investors in each market as stated below, aiming to consideration to the possibilities of “Strategic shares held in excess of this limit will be retired in general. March 31, 2022 onward, MUFG is required to maintain the achieve an optimal capital structure from a standpoint of investments for sustainable growth” as indicated at the proportion of TLAC in total risk-weighted assets at 18% or balance between capital adequacy and efficiency. lower right corner of the triangle. Conceptual Diagram for the Cancellation of Our Own Shares greater. (For more details, refer to “Responding to Global Retain own shares of 5% of the total number of issued shares at maximum and Financial Regulation” on page 90.) Then, we consider “Further enhance shareholder returns” cancel the shares exceeding the threshold as described at the top of the triangle. Our basic strategy Total number of In preparation for these upcoming requirements, in Total Amount of Funding (FY 2016) on shareholder returns is to achieve stable and shares held due to the February 2016, MUFG became the first financial holding sustainable increase in dividends per share through past five repurchases company in Japan to issue TLAC-eligible senior debt AT1 perpetual subordinated debt ¥400 billion growth of profits. In fact, MUFG has constantly increased of our own shares = equivalent to 4.98% registered with the SEC of the United States. dividends per share since the 2008 worldwide financial 5% of the total number of Tier 2 subordinated debt ¥436 billion crisis. The amount of dividends per share is discussed by shares outstanding In September 2016, MUFG issued “Green Bonds” Approx. Equivalent to the Board of Directors and is set at a level considered (As of Mar. 31, 2017) TLAC-eligible senior debt targeting investors who prioritize the Environmental, ¥1 trillion reasonable in line with its aim of maintaining a stable Mar. 31, 2017 Forecast 28 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 29 Management Message Message from the CFO Positive Effects and Results of the Divestment of Under these rules, we will abide by the spirit of the BEPS Equity Holdings Action Plan* and other principles of international tax, as Equity holdings – equities issued by corporate clients of well as national and local tax laws. Moreover, we will Q&A Sessions with CFO banks and held by the banks –were previously sincerely deal with tax authorities in a cooperative and commonplace in Japan. Although in the past such holdings open manner, enhancing a trusting relationship. Frequently asked questions from our investors and answers to the questions helped companies manage themselves in a stable way and thus supported development of the Japanese economy, In addition, we will utilize existing preferential taxation MUFG announced a policy of reducing equity holdings in regimes and government incentives offered by various Q1. Balance of overseas loans is increasing. Does MUFG have any issues with regard to November 2015. Specifically, this policy aims to limit the ratio countries only where the utilization of such benefits is foreign currency funding including U.S. dollar? of equity holdings to the total balance of Tier 1 Capital to consistent with the purpose of the relevant tax laws. We approximately 10% by the end of fiscal 2020. will also improve our overall compliance framework to Compared with 10 years ago, MUFG’s overseas loan Non-JPY assets and liabilities (the Bank) ensure appropriate tax payments. In these ways, we will balance has increased approximately threefold to ¥40 As of Mar. 31, 2017 (Billions of U.S. dollars) We expect sales of equity holdings to yield multiple positive enhance our corporate value. trillion. Because of this, MUFG’s portfolio of foreign effects including: (1) Reduction of credit risk (Stock has a * Action plan that aims to prevent and counter Base Erosion and Profit Shifting that currencies, including the U.S. dollar, is in a state of higher risk weight compared with loans) (2) Free-up of was compiled by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development “over-loan”, in which the balance of loans exceeds Customer deposits capital that had been allocated to the risk of equity holdings that of deposits. 60% to 70% of overseas loans (Incl. deposits from and improvement of capital efficiency through reallocating booked at the Bank are covered by foreign currency central banks) Appropriate utilization of 216 the capital for more effective usage. (3) Profits from realizing preferential taxation regimes customer deposits. The remainder is covered by mid Loans unrealized gains to long term funding sources including corporate 340 bonds. In short, the Bank secures stable funding Since fiscal 2015, the amount of equity holdings that have sources to cover all the amount of its overseas loans. been sold totals ¥266.0 billion (based on an acquisition cost Appropriate tax payments Corporate Mid-long term funding (Presupposing compliance with value Moreover, MUFG has a Special Purpose Company (Incl. corporate bonds basis). Of this, the amount of equity holdings sold during tax laws and regulations) growth and currency swaps) (SPC) holding U.S. government bonds and other 172 fiscal 2016 amounts to ¥149.0 billion, up ¥32.0 billion financial instruments that can smoothly be converted Investment securities compared with the previous fiscal year. In short, our efforts Compliance with tax laws and into cash, in order to prepare for such emergencies 76 Interbank market operations are steadily yielding results. Based on their balance as of regulations in each country as a sudden deterioration in our funding environment. Interbank market operations 59 March 31, 2017, the ratio of equity holdings to the Tier 1 (Enhance trusting relationships 51 Capital was down 1.3 percentage points year-on-year. with tax authorities) Looking ahead, we will strive to maintain a foreign CD / CP 56 Others 36 currency funding structure not relaying on short-term Assets Liabilities We will continue to reduce equity holdings with dialogues Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors cross currency swaps (to convert Japanese yen to with our corporate clients to secure their understanding. (Further enhancement of IR/SR activities) U.S. dollars). We will continue to take actions to * The Bank’s managerial basis excl. MUFG Union Bank, N.A., and Krungsri As CFO of MUFG, it is very important to maintain increase balance of foreign currency deposits and constructive dialogue with stock and bond investors and to diversify types of mid to long term bonds. Reduction of Equity Holdings continually enhance information disclosure. For MUFG as a (Trillions of Yen) Acquisition price of domestic equity securities with fair value 10 included in available-for-sale securities (consolidated) financial institution, it is also very important to raise capital 9.20 Ratio of equity holdings to Tier 1 capital * and debt from capital markets, so as to comply with financial 58.1% Aim to reduce our equity regulations, maintain our credit ratings and secure foreignholdings to approx. 10% currency liquidity. Q2. Why doesn’t MUFG increase shareholder returns including cash dividends? of our Tier 1 capital towards 22.8% the end of FY2020 5 19.7% 17.9% From this point of view, in fiscal 2016 we held a special For fiscal 2016, MUFG announced full-year cash (1) Finalization of the revised Basel III rules (Revisions 4.29 16.6% strategic seminar in Tokyo in which Mr. Stephen Cummings, dividend payment totaling ¥18 per share. This may demand an increase in our risk-weighted 2.82 2.79 2.66 2.52 CEO of MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation, presented represented a dividend payout ratio (ratio of assets in future.) Approx. 10% MUFG’s business strategies for the Americas, in addition to dividends to earnings per share) of 26.4%. We were (2) MUFG’s credit ratings (Currently both core MUFG regular semi-annual investor meetings for financials. In able to achieve a total shareholder return ratio of Group banks are rated A+ (S&P) /A1 (Moody’s), 0 February 2017, we held our Investors’ Day event in which more than 47% including repurchase of our own commanding a mid-ranking position among their Mar. 31, 2002 Mar. 31, 2008 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 Mar. 31, 2017 Mar. 31, 2021 Group Heads of business segments presented each shares as we did in fiscal 2015, which is at the top overseas peers. We will strive to maintain or business strategy. Moreover, Mr. Tsutomu Okuda, the Lead level among Japanese banks. improve our ratings.) * Under Basel Ⅱ basis until Mar. 31, 2012 (consolidated) Independent Director for MUFG, made a presentation at this (3) Level of capital adequacy ratios of European and For fiscal 2017, we forecast that annual dividends will U.S. G-SIBs (Currently the Common Equity Tier 1 event and engaged in direct dialogue with the audience on amount to ¥18 per share, and we will discuss share Capital ratios of competitor banks are Initiatives to Ensure Strict Compliance with Tax corporate governance, a topic which investors are highly buyback strategy based on the “capital triangle” approximately 11% to 12%.) Regulations interested in. (For the main content of question & answer featured on page 28. (4) Forecast for our net income from a medium to Today, MUFG is a corporate group that boasts approximately sessions at this event, refer to “Dialogue between Lead long-term perspective (Recording net income 150,000 employees and extends into more than 50 countries Independent Outside Director and Investors” on page 66.) In addition, we will consider shareholder return constantly at a certain level or higher is a base for around the globe. Accordingly, we recognize that as a strategies for fiscal 2018 and beyond as one of the stable shareholder returns.) corporate citizen it is our duty to exert our best efforts toward We are committed to enhancing our IR activities aimed at most important themes for the next medium-term maintaining appropriate tax payments at home and abroad. communicating with fund managers and analysts. In business plan currently under internal discussion, MUFG’s Board of Directors is committed to discussing addition, we will also step up our Shareholder Relations (SR) taking into account the followings. our shareholder return strategies including cash With this in mind, in April 2017, MUFG established in-house activities and, to this end, facilitate dialogue with those who dividend payment, reflecting feedback from the rules on tax compliance so that all Group members can share are in charge of exercising voting rights, including passive market and opinions of our shareholders. and act on the same values when applying national and local ones, on such topics as our governance framework and tax laws, regulations and principles of international tax. management policies. 30 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 31 Corporate Value Initiatives Business Overview Net Operating Profits by Business Segment*1 Japanese Retail Banking Corporate Business Banking Business*3 ¥225.3 billion ¥422.2 billion 14% Corporate Value 27% Initiatives Net Operating Profits ¥1,395.8 billion*2 Business Overview……………………………………………………… P.33 24% * Percentage represents share of each business segment's Retail Banking Business…………………………………………… P.34 net operating profits to simple sum of those of the five business segments. Japanese Corporate Banking Business……………………… P.36 Global Banking Business…………………………………………… P.38 Investor Services / Asset Management Business………… P.40 Global Markets Business…………………………………………… P.42 4% 31% Global Markets Investor Services / Global Banking Business Asset Management Business Business ¥369.1 billion ¥60.9 billion ¥482.5 billion *1 All figures presented in the Business Overview section are on a managerial accounting basis. Figures are based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end, unless otherwise noted. Local currency base represents foreign exchange rate applied to medium-term business plan (¥115/US$). *2 In addition to the net operating profits of the five business segments, figures include profits or losses of headquarters and other elements. *3 Excluding overseas business with Japanese corporates 32 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 33 Corporate Value Initiatives Business Overview Retail Banking Business Fiscal 2016 Review To meet the needs of individual customers, we provide a wide range of Fiscal 2016 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits products and services from housing loans to wealth management, inheritance and consumer finance. Gross profits decreased 4.8% (¥61.0 billion) year on year to ¥1,198.3 Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) billion. Net operating profits fell 21.3% (¥61.3 billion) year on year to 1,299.4 ¥225.3 billion. Loan and deposit revenues declined due to lower 1,300 340.6 1,259.2 350 Atsushi Murakami interest margins on the back of the prolonged trend toward low 1,198.3 Managing Executive Officer interest rates. Following the introduction of BOJ’s negative interest 1,200 286.6 300 Group Head, Retail Banking Business Group rate policy, ever lower market interest rates forced the Company to suspend the marketing of some of these products. In addition to this, 1,100 250 the market uncertainty as the result of the introduction of said policy 225.3 Composition of Gross Profits* Fiscal 2016 Gross Profit Breakdown and other geopolitical events led to decline of investment product 28% sales, which, in turn, caused profits to decrease compared with the 0 0 2014 2015 2016 (FY) previous fiscal year. ■ Consumer finance and card 45% ■ Loans and yen deposits 22% Wealth Management Business Assets Under Management* ¥1,198.3 billion ■ Investment product sales 11% In the wealth management business, we promoted a shift from (Trillions of yen) ■ Securities business* 9% savings to stable asset building. MUFG played a major, multifaceted 30 26.5 25.1 25.8 * Gross profit total for five ■ Inheritance and real estate 2% role in an IPO project related to JR Kyushu Railway Company. In this business groups ■ Other 11% project, while Group securities companies marketed stocks, the Bank 20 utilized its brokerage function to refer bank customers to said * Fees and commissions on stocks and bonds, etc. securities companies. Thanks to these Groupwide efforts, a number 10 of securities accounts were newly set up at MUFG, resulting in an expansion of our customer base. In addition, the value of assets Our Mediumand Long-Term Vision under management as of March 31, 2017 grew approximately ¥0.7 0 2014 2015 2016 (End of FY) trillion compared with the end of the previous fiscal year, attesting to The Retail Banking Group of Choice for a Wide Variety of Customers Boasting a Business That the success of initiatives to diversify our product lineup to better * Total for the Bank, the Trust Bank and the Securities Business. Excludes yen deposits. Spans the Generations accommodate customer needs. In line with the MUFG Basic Policy for Fiduciary Duties, we pursuing the best interests of those customers while Consumer Finance and Card Business Revenue Consumer Finance and Settlement Businesses will facilitate a shift from savings to stable asset building by stepping up the stock business (enhancing the assets under (Billions of yen) taking a customer-first business approach. In the wealth management). In these ways, we will secure greater profits The consumer finance and settlement businesses focused on 600 541.8 management and asset succession businesses, we will rally and sustainable growth. In addition, we will deliver products stimulating personal consumption. In these fields, the Bank and 493.2 520.3 Groupwide resources to build a structure capable of and services with superior customer convenience in such ACOM enjoyed growth in the balance of and revenues from card providing seamless, comprehensive financial services settlement services as credit cards as well as in the loans, with the former promoting a card loan product under the 400 employing MUFG’s distinctive strengths. At the same time, consumer finance business, thereby stimulating “BANQUIC” brand. To contribute to the sound development of the in order to broaden our customer base we will focus on personal consumption. consumer finance market, we will maintain a disciplined 200 management approach from the perspective of customer protection while striving to enhance user convenience. We also released Operating Environment Analysis “Smart,” an MUFG credit card targeting young adults, such as new 0 2014 2015 2016 (FY) graduates who have just entered the workforce. Due to a prolonged trend toward low interest rates in Japan, To that end, we will focus on the customer’s perspective in which saw the introduction of the Bank of Japan’s negative our business operations while striving to maximize interest rate policy, revenues from deposits and loans customer value. By fostering long-term customer declined. Meanwhile, emerging nations have seen the rapid relationships, we will increase the value of assets under pace of economic growth slow somewhat. Moreover, the management and secure stable profits. Simultaneously, as results of the Brexit referendum and the U.S. presidential election have fostered a growing sense of uncertainty. we endeavor to better accommodate ever diversifying customer needs, we will develop and deliver more E S G Protecting the Assets Entrusted to Us by Customers Given these conditions, securing stable new profit sources sophisticated products and services. Given the rapid aging of society in Japan, the number of future. In June 2016, the Trust Bank released an investment is key to ensuring sustainable growth for the retail banking people who develop dementia is expected to reach trust product called Mirai no Mamori that places business. Breaking away from dependence on loan and approximately 7 million—or one in five of those over 65—in restrictions on cancellation. Mirai no Mamori has three deposit revenues, we will establish a profit structure that is 2025, raising serious concerns among the general public. distinctive features: (1) In general, the customer cannot resilient to the impact of market fluctuations. Even in the absence of dementia, a person’s decisionexecute midterm cancellation by themselves; (2) the making ability may deteriorate with age—a situation that usage of funds is limited; and (3) a dedicated account is may lead to a sudden unexpected loss of assets. allocated to manage this product. Looking ahead, MUFG will leverage its accumulated know-how in wealth Through its products, MUFG aims to help customers management to satisfy customer needs and to help protect their assets and better prepare themselves for the resolve issues society is confronting. 34 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 35 Corporate Value Initiatives Business Overview Japanese Corporate ① Fiscal 2016 Review Banking Business Fiscal 2016 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits* We provide lending, settlement, forex, and asset management services Gross profits decreased 4.4% (¥48.5 billion) year on year to ¥1,041.6 Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) through our domestic and overseas networks to meet the diverse needs billion. Net operating profits fell 8.8% (¥43.1 billion) to ¥443.2 billion. (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) of our clients. We also utilize our Groupwide expertise to propose Amid intensifying market competition, net interest income 1,200 1,148.5 600 solutions for client’s business strategies and challenges. 548.6 1,090.1 Saburo Araki attributable to loans and deposits decreased year on year, reflecting 1,041.6 Senior Managing Executive Officer a prolonged trend toward lower market interest rates. 1,000 486.3 500 Group Head, Corporate Banking Business Group 443.2 Meanwhile, the average loan balance rose 2.0% compared with the 800 400 previous fiscal year, enjoying firm growth. Composition of Gross Profits*1 Fiscal 2016 Gross Profit Breakdown* 24% Large Corporate Business ② 0 0 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Investment banking and The operating environment surrounding major corporations varies * Including overseas business with Japanese corporates ■ 36% securities business by business sector and category as does the optimal management strategy for each corporation. Well aware of this fact, MUFG is ¥1,041.6 billion*2 ■ Deposit and lending 26% promoting a sector approach. To address management issues Domestic Corporate Average Loan Balance* ■ Settlement 17% customers are facing, this business model proposes solutions that (Trillions of yen) ■ Overseas 16% *1 Gross profit total for five 50 combine the strengths of Group companies, each of which is 45.9 business groups ■ Trust 5% 44.9 *2 Including overseas business equipped with expertise in a different sector, with MUFG’s 43.2 with Japanese corporates * Excluding other gross profits and comprehensive financial service capabilities. With the aim of 40 adjustment of duplication between regions assisting our customers in their drive to globalize, we are also stepping up collaboration between domestic and overseas bases in 30 an effort to satisfy diverse needs for sophisticated solutions. This Our Mediumand Long-Term Vision approach has resulted in MUFG recording industry-leading ③ 0 accomplishments in terms of M&A advisory and bond underwriting. 2014 2015 2016 (End of FY) A Financial Group Capable of Helping Customers Achieve Growth * Excludes loans to government and Working with Them Hand in Hand to Create the Society of the Future as Their Best Partner SME Business We will realize sustainable growth for the Group and for at supporting business succession and continuation while Our proposals are meticulously designed to meet customers’ fund Average Loan Balance for SMEs customers by strengthening our domestic business closely monitoring changes in economic and social raising needs and help them pursue management strategies for foundations and establishing a new business model for structures in Japan. We will also strive to establish an asset business growth and sales channel expansion. In fiscal 2016, we (Trillions of yen) 15.0 corporate customers. We will boost corporate customer management business model targeting corporate succeeded in making a number of effective proposals aimed at 14.3 14.4 transactions through such key services as loans and customers and adopt a more sophisticated approach for assisting the smooth succession of business as well as proposals settlement. Simultaneously, we will step up services aimed the overseas business. related to capital strategies, garnering favorable customer reviews. 14.0 Thanks to these efforts, the loan balance grew steadily. Examples of our constant efforts to help customers achieve business growth 13.0 Operating Environment Analysis include large-scale business matching meetings we hold in Japan and overseas and our hosting of the “Rise Up Festa” business Although loans and deposits have long served as a solid capabilities, we will provide highly value-added, innovative 0 support program aimed at nurturing up-and-coming businesses. 2015 2016 (FY) revenue base for the Japanese corporate banking business, solutions while pursuing the overarching aim of securing a the profitability of this base has deteriorated due to such market position immune to interest rate competition. In negative factors as the low interest rate environment and addition to engaging in such conventional commercial intensifying competition, factors that MUFG believes are banking operations as loans, deposits, settlement and unlikely to change in the short term. Moreover, on the back foreign exchange, MUFG will rally specialist knowledge and of growing trends toward the tightening of financial regulations around the world, financial institutions are being financing functions from each Group company to strengthen revenue sources that are based on commission E S G Supporting Promising Startups called to maintain a management approach that places fees, including real estate, investment management and greater emphasis on capital efficiency. securities-related operations. Furthermore, we will MUFG aims to assist growing companies engaged in novel invigoration of local economies. As it did in the previous and creative segments as well as those trying to extend the round, MUFG examined applicants engaged in four undertake strategic investment in IT systems to enhance boundaries of existing businesses. To achieve this aim, MUFG growth fields—bio and life science, robotic and other Against this backdrop, MUFG is focusing on harnessing its operational efficiency, with the aim of hosts the Rise Up Festa support program aimed at cutting-edge technologies, information and internet distinctive strengths as a financial group with enhancing productivity. discovering such companies and engages with them as services, and social business—recognizing four comprehensive service capabilities. Exercising these business partners over the medium to long term. outstanding companies and seven excellent companies. Along with financial assistance, award-winning companies In 2016, the final screening of the fourth round of the Rise may take advantage of consulting services provided by Up Festa program was held in Kyoto Prefecture, a Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting and other support municipality that has entered into a comprehensive programs aimed at helping them achieve growth. partnership agreement with the Bank with regard to the 36 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 37 Corporate Value Initiatives Business Overview Global Banking Business Fiscal 2016 Review We respond to the funding needs of corporate customers in more than 50 Fiscal 2016 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits countries and regions around the world while providing cash Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) management and advisory services. Gross profits increased 2.4% (¥30.6 billion) year on year to ¥1,303.7 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) billion. Net operating profits rose 5.3% (¥24.4 billion) year on year to Actual exchange rate basis Local currency basis MUFG Union Bank, N.A. and the Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited ¥482.5 billion. Although performance in fiscal 2016 was negatively 1,391.4 1,400 600 (Krungsri) are involved in corporate banking and retail banking business Eiichi Yoshikawa affected by the deceleration of economic growth in East Asian 1,289.8 1,273.1 1,303.7 1,307.8 533.9 in the U.S. and Thailand, respectively. countries, particularly China, we were able to secure the increase in 1,248.3 Senior Managing Executive Officer 496.1 1,200 485.0 500 Group Head, Global Business Group profit thanks to the success of major project finance in Europe and 482.5 479.6 458.0 the Americas as well as the strong showings of the Krungsri in auto loans and consumer finance. 1,000 400 Composition of Gross Profits* Fiscal 2016 Gross Profit Breakdown* 30% Initiatives to Enhance Asset Efficiency and Reinforce 0 0 Our Business Foundations 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■ Americas 53% As part of efforts aimed at enhancing asset efficiency, we have ■ Asia 17% integrated the primary global banking functions of the Bank and ¥1,303.7 billion ■ Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya) 20% subsidiaries of Securities Business to enable them to accurately Fiscal 2016 Average Loan Balance and Average Deposit Balance ■ Europe, Middle East, Africa 10% satisfy the needs of customers pursuing global expansion. With the Americas Asia KS Europe, Middle East, Africa * Gross profit total for five * Prior to adjustment for other business and aim of strengthening our business foundation, we strove to enhance (Trillions of yen) Average loan balance Average deposit balance business groups overlap between regions our foreign currency liquidity by directing our efforts toward 50 47.3 44.0 increasing the balance of foreign currency deposits. Moreover, we 40 are proactively offering managerial positions to overseas employees 31.5 33.5 who were hired locally in an effort to build a more robust human 30 resource base. 20 Our Mediumand Long-Term Vision Commercial Banking Business in the U.S. and Asia 10 The “First Call Bank” for Customers around the World MUFG has been promoting strategic investment and alliances in the 0 Actual Local Actual Local We aim to become the “First Call Bank” for customers banking and securities operations, developing a balanced United States and Asia with an eye to building a business portfolio exchange currency exchange currency rate basis basis rate basis basis around the world by leveraging region-specific advantages business portfolio and increasing foreign currency liquidity. capable of supporting sustainable growth. As a result, MUFG Union while strengthening the product and service capabilities of At the same time, we will step up the development of Bank, N.A. (the Bank (USA)) and Krungsri saw growth in gross profits, Non-interest Income from Transactions with the entire Group. Furthermore, we will secure sustainable human resources capable of driving our and these profits have come to account for around half the gross Global Corporates* growth by expanding commission fee-based revenue in corporate expansion. profits earned by the entire Global Banking Business. In line with our (Billions of yen) aim to create greater synergies through collaboration between 250 235.8 MUFG and its key investees engaged in commercial banking in the 225.9 Operating Environment Analysis United States and Asia, we host the Global Partnership Conference, a 200 forum for attendees to discuss their business models. Through such Thus far, recovery in the global economy has been modest downward pressure on profits. activities, we are strengthening our business foundations. (Please but constant, especially in developed countries, with little Nevertheless, our net operating profits in the global banking see page 73 for details.) 150 forward momentum. Although interest rates rose in the business grew thanks to our efforts to satisfy customer United States, the worldwide policy trend toward low needs through the provision of high-quality solutions based 0 interest rates is expected to continue. At the same time, on the Group’s comprehensive strengths. Moreover, the 2015 2016 (FY) geopolitical instabilities in various regions are fostering a ratio of this segment’s revenues to total customer segment * Including global corporates business profit, FX fees and derivatives. growing sense of uncertainty. For financial institutions, revenues rose to approximately 40%, proving that the global Excluding the Bank (USA) and KS. Local currency basis. moreover, such negative factors as a higher U.S. dollar banking business is driving MUFG’s growth. Going forward, procurement cost and expenses incurred in complying with we will strive to realize sustainable growth by enhancing regulations enforced by individual countries are putting asset efficiency and reinforcing our business foundation. E S G Assisting the Vitalization of Local Communities As a global company, MUFG is engaged in a variety of companies run by women, minorities and army initiatives aimed at invigorating the communities in veterans. The Bank (USA) also utilizes the governmentwhich it operates. In the United States, the Bank (USA) led Small Business Administration support programs for evinces a clear commitment to providing ongoing financing while proactively addressing SME owners’ support to SMEs based in California, the state in which it needs for assistance through its specialist departments. was founded. Believing that vibrant SME activities help As such, the Bank (USA) contributes to the success of invigorate local communities, the Bank (USA) provides local SMEs and the stimulation of regional economies. financing and other services with a focus on local 38 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 39 Corporate Value Initiatives Business Overview Investor Services / Fiscal 2016 Review Asset Management Business Fiscal 2016 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits We provide various services in relation to the asset management and investor Gross profits increased 0.5% (¥0.9 billion) year on year to ¥173.1 Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) services business at home and abroad. Employing our sophisticated specialist billion. Net operating profits fell 13.2% (¥9.3 billion) year on year to (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) know-how in the areas of investor services, asset management, investment ¥60.9 billion. The rise in gross profits was attributable to the 180 171.5 172.2 173.1 80 trusts and pensions, we provide consulting and other services on a global basis, acquisition of an overseas investor services company. However, Sunao Yokokawa domestic operations were significantly affected by the dissolution of 70.2 constantly striving to further enhance our asset management capabilities and 150 68.3 70 Managing Executive Officer develop products capable of better meeting diverse customer needs. EPF plans and stagnation in the investment trust market for Group Head, Trust Assets Business Group individual investors because of weakening business sentiment. 60.9 Consequently, profit decreased due to these and other 120 60 negative factors. Composition of Gross Profits* Fiscal 2016 Gross Profit Breakdown 4% 0 0 Global 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■ Pensions 34% In the field of investor services, the fund administration market has ■ Investment Trust Management 21% become a promising growth field against the backdrop of a Balance of Global IS*2 ¥173.1 billion ■ Investment Trust Administration 11% worldwide trend toward tighter regulations. To secure (Billions of U.S. dollars) competitiveness and a foothold for future expansion, we acquired ■ Global Asset Administration* 24% 600 two companies* in April and October 2016, respectively. By doing so, 498 * Gross profit total for five business groups ■ Other 10% we enhanced our ability to provide various solutions through a * Services provided under the MUFG one-stop service structure under the brand name “MUFG Investor 400 Investor Services brand, custody and fund Services.” In the field of asset management services, we promoted 251 administration services, etc. the sale of index-related products developed in collaboration with 200 STOXX Limited—the top European investment index developer and provider—targeting overseas asset management firms. We also Our Mediumand Long-Term Vision strengthened our marketing structure by, for example, opening a 0 2015 2016 (End of FY) new representative office in Dubai. *2 Sum of HF・PE・Investment Funds (40 Act etc) administration An Asset Management and Investor Services Provider Boasting a Global Presence Backed by a * Currently, MUFG Capital Analytics LLC and MUFG Investor Services (US), LLC Strong Foothold in the Domestic Market Investment Trust The domestic market has seen such structural changes as In the pension business, we will continue to strengthen our Defined Contribution Pension We facilitated a shift from savings to stable asset building by shrinking employee pension fund (EPF) plans, a shift from consulting and solution proposal capabilities in response to Investment products balance Asset balance promoting wrap account products as key products supporting asset savings to stable asset building and the popularization of changes in the pension system. Through these efforts we (Trillions of yen) the individual-type Defined Contribution pension plan will increase our share of the defined benefit pensionbuilding. We also launched a new service related to investment 4.0 3.7 (iDeCo). We will work to respond accurately to these related market and grow sales of defined contribution (DC) education. At the same time, we launched a trail-blazing AI fund 3.4 changes while expanding revenues from our pension investment products. product ahead of other domestic major investment trust 3.0 overseas businesses. management firms. 2.3 2.1 Overseas, our initiatives in the investor services business 2.0 Pensions In Japan, our investment trust business focuses on include executing strategic investment and reinforcing our providing high-quality products to augment a product administration services for alternative funds—a newly In the area of defined benefit pension plans, we secured an industry1.0 lineup tailored to customers just entering the asset building emerging investment vehicle. In the asset management leading share in Japan in terms of pension trust balance. Moreover, stage. In addition, we promote investment education aimed business, we are looking to increase the value of assets we enjoyed stable growth in both the DC pension administration 0 2015 2016 (FY) at educating a broader range of customers in what asset under administration, especially those entrusted by balance and the DC pension investment product sales balance. In building entails. overseas investors, while also pursuing capital and business January 2017, we released “Light Course,” a product designed to alliances. In these ways we will thus ensure our future as an better accommodate needs of first-time iDeCo investors, aiming to asset manager with a global presence. help facilitate the popularization of this pension scheme. Operating Environment Analysis E S G The introduction of the Bank of Japan’s negative interest their investor services functions by merging multiple rate policy has prompted a growing number of institutional subsidiary banks. Furthermore, in January 2017 the scope of Promoting ESG Investment investors to more actively seek investment vehicles that persons eligible to enroll in iDeCo was extended, boosting promise returns despite the ultra-low interest rate the plan’s popularity and expanding its policyholder base. In addition to establishing and handling the the selection of investee candidates based on nonenvironment. This situation, in turn, has triggered a growing Taking these circumstances into account, the Trust Assets administration of excellent funds by carefully optimizing financial information. trend toward investment in real estate and infrastructure. Business Group is committed to pursuing a customerits stock portfolio to secure sustainable growth in Meanwhile, the majority of individual investors have yet to centric business approach. As we are entrusted with returns, the Trust Bank acts as an advocate for Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management handles become open to the idea of making a full-fledged shift from valuable customer assets, we will do our utmost to live up investment activities focused on ESG criteria. To that funds backed by stocks of environmentally friendly savings to stable asset building—a situation we do not see to their high expectations regarding our management and end, the Trust Bank teams up with government agencies corporations boasting robust returns. Some of these to hold seminars while staying engaged with private funds allocate a portion of trust fees to foundations changing any time soon. In addition, there has been a administration operations, thereby fulfilling our corporations in the sharing of best practices regarding engaged in environmental protection activities. change in the competition environment, with other social responsibilities. domestic players considering spinning off and integrating 40 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 41 Corporate Value Initiatives Business Overview Global Markets Business Fiscal 2016 Review We promote market-related business (bonds, forex, equities, derivatives) Fiscal 2016 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits and are responsible for Asset Liability Management (ALM).* Gross profits decreased 8.4% (¥54.0 billion) year on year to ¥582.0 Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) * ALM: Integrated management of liquidity risk and interest rate risk inherent in assets (loans, etc.) and billion. Net operating profits declined 13.6% (¥58.4 billion) year on (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) liabilities (deposits, etc.) year to ¥369.1 billion. 700 664.3 458.3 500 Shigeru Asai In the S&T business, we achieved steady results in domestic foreign 636.1 427.5 Senior Managing Executive Officer 600 582.0 369.1 400 exchange operations while enjoying solid showings overseas. This Group Head, Global Markets Business Group was thanks to the thoroughgoing optimization of the Group’s operating structure completed in the fiscal year under review. 500 300 Composition of Gross Profits* Fiscal 2016 Gross Profit Breakdown 14% In ALM operations, profit decreased mainly due to the restructuring 0 0 of foreign bond positions in response to a hike in U.S. interest rates 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■ Sales &Trading 60% following the U.S. presidential election. ■ ALM, Others 40% Sales and Trading Gross Profits* Sales and Trading ¥582.0 billion (Billions of yen) In New York and Hong Kong, as was done in London in the previous 500 472.4 475.1 fiscal year, our dealing rooms under the Bank and subsidiaries of the * Gross profit total for five business groups Securities Business-HD were integrated. We also completed the relocation of these two businesses’ Tokyo offices to the same 400 building. Our S&T functions at the Bank and securities companies have thus been fully integrated at home and abroad. Looking ahead, 300 we will flexibly mobilize our S&T teams in each region to provide onestop services and products with superior quality that satisfies Our Mediumand Long-Term Vision customers’ expectations. 0 2015 2016 (FY) * Total of S&T business related gross profits in all business units of the Bank, Helping Establish the MUFG Brand as a Global Presence and a Strong Market Player Boasting ALM the Trust Bank and the Securities Business-HD. Local currency basis. Distinct Competitive Advantages in Japan and Asia In fiscal 2016, the financial market saw major fluctuations that reflected turbulence in the wake of such factors as the UK decision We will endeavor to optimize our global markets business Business-HD, providing one-stop services for customers. Unrealized Gains or Losses on JGB and to leave the European Union and the results of the U.S. presidential functions throughout the Group to strengthen sales and Simultaneously, we will adopt a more sophisticated balanceForeign Bonds* election. Nevertheless, we were able to flexibly execute risk control trading (S&T) operations. In particular, we will integrate the sheet management method for global implementation that measures backed by a global management structure encompassing JGB Foreign bonds domestic and overseas trading functions and sales encompasses both the yen and foreign currencies. the yen and foreign currencies. (Billions of yen) functions of the Bank and subsidiaries of the Securities 1,142.8 Going forward, external conditions surrounding our ALM operations 1,000 will remain harsh due to the Bank of Japan’s negative interest rate Operating Environment Analysis policy, the rising cost of foreign currency procurement and Operating conditions surrounding the global market operations, we are pushing forward with the development tightening financial regulations. With this in view, we will rally our 500 342.6 business have become increasingly harsh due to the of an optimal operating structure that will enable us to Groupwide strengths to enhance our resilience amid the changing prolonged trend toward low interest rates in Japan and provide one-stop services, deliver solutions of higher quality operating environment by, for example, pursuing sophisticated 0 Europe in particular; a growing sense of uncertainty and maximize synergies through the integration of market balance-sheet management methods, such as the integrated 2015 2016 (End of FY) prevailing in the financial market after the Brexit referendum business functions throughout the Group. In ALM management of U.S. dollars on a global basis, and strengthening * JGB and foreign bonds included in securities available for sale category and the U.S. presidential election; and the upcoming operations, we are preparing for the adoption of a balancecontrols on foreign currency liquidity. tightening of global financial regulations. sheet management method for global implementation that encompasses both the yen and foreign currencies. Despite the adverse conditions, we are determined to Furthermore, we will actively utilize the ICT and FinTech to achieve sustainable growth through the creation of new strengthen our operating platform, thereby business models that will serve into the future. In S&T enhancing productivity. E S G Utilizing AI to Provide Accurate and Timely Information The utilization of AI has significant potential to change market trends through the repetition of this learning traders’ daily operations. For example, in foreign process. This technology will allow traders to be more exchange trading deep learning is expected to prove a proactive in controlling trading risk as well as to propose useful tool for, in one example, predicting how trading strategies finely tuned to individual customer exchange rates will move 10 minutes into the future. needs. To accelerate the commercialization of such Applying deep learning, computer analysis is able to tools, MUFG is actively promoting open innovation and extract unique patterns from enormous volumes of data incorporating external input (Please see page 24 and thereby generate highly accurate projections of for details). 42 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 43 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Initiatives for Addressing ESG Issues toward Sustainable Growth To fulfill its mission as a financial institution, MUFG is striving to build lasting relationships with customers and society as a whole and working hand in hand with these stakeholders to ensure sustainable mutual development. To this end, the Company is addressing a variety of ESG issues from a long-term perspective. MUFG’s Overarching Approach to ESG Issues Based Development Goals (SDGs) and other sustainability on Discussions at the Top Management Level targets. By doing so, we will sustainably enhance our In recent years, growing concerns about climate change corporate value. risk have propelled countries around the world to convene international discussions on tackling such risk Second, MUFG will upgrade its risk management while prompting corporations to pay closer attention to framework, especially with regard to environmental and the impact of their business activities on the environment social risk. Keeping apprised of international trends and and society. Moreover, on the back of increasing standards, we will develop a more sophisticated awareness of their stewardship responsibilities, management framework for ensuring that environmental Important Issues institutional investors are focusing ever more tightly on and social considerations are taken into account in our the ESG aspects of their investees. Given these trends, business activities and will enhance our responsiveness MUFG believes that ESG-conscious corporate to climate change. Concerning Value management has become essential to continued operations and sustainable growth. Third, we will step up information disclosure. In addition to disclosing the range of initiatives undertaken by MUFG Creation In June 2017, MUFG’s board members reconfirmed the through easy-to-understand presentations, we have importance of ESG-conscious management while confirmed the necessity of enhancing engagement with discussing how to tackle ESG issues and what strategies various stakeholders. the company should adopt. Conclusions reached at this ─ How MUFG Addresses ESG Issues board meeting can be summarized as follows. In line with these companywide policies, we will engage in intensive discussions focused on concrete ESG First, the company will focus on opportunities arising initiatives and incorporate such initiatives into the next from ESG issues. More specifically, we have confirmed MediumTerm Business Plan. In these ways, we will Initiatives for Addressing ESG Issues our policy of helping resolve issues society is confronting facilitate the creation of new value and live up to the toward Sustainable Growth………………………………………… P.45 through our business activities with an eye to expectations of stakeholders over the long term. Environmental Initiatives…………………………………………… P.46 contributing to the realization of the UN’s Sustainable Contributing to Future Industries and a Better Society………………………………………………… P.48 Social Contributions…………………………………………………… P.52 Rallying Groupwide Resources to Build Endorsement of International Sustainability Nations Global Compact, a principle-based framework of Sophisticated Investment Chains……………………………… P.54 Initiatives voluntary action aimed at encouraging businesses to Helping Corporate Customers Achieve MUFG has endorsed and is acting as an advocate for uphold and practice universal principles pertaining to Growth through Financing………………………………………… P.56 such international sustainability initiatives as the United human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Upgrading the Governance Framework……………………… P.58 Ensuring sustainable growth in our corporate value…………………………………………………… P.60 Dialogue between Lead Independent Outside Director and Investors……………………………………………… P.66 Board of Directors…………………………………………………… P.68 Corporate Executive Officers and Executive Officers…………………………………………………… P.70 Global Advisory Board………………………………………………… P.71 Outline of Annual Meeting………………………………………… P.72 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Environment Principles for Financial Action Programme for the 21st Century – Finance Initiative 44 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 45 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Environmental Initiatives Remaining on-trend with evolving needs for solutions for environmental and social issues, MUFG is engaging in project finance aimed at supporting the development of renewable energy businesses, providing consulting services to help customers counter global warming and assisting fundraising for corporations aiming to minimize the environmental risk of their operations. In particular, climate change countermeasures are now seen as a critical issue requiring international efforts. With this in mind, MUFG will rally its comprehensive strengths as a Group to contribute to such countermeasures and other initiatives aimed at protecting the global environment. Environment 46 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 47 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Environmental Initiatives Contributing to Future Industries and a Better Society MUFG has positioned the pursuit of environmental initiatives, especially those aimed at countering climate change, as one of its social missions. Accordingly, we are striving to contribute to a sustainable society by helping reduce environmental burdens attributable to human activities. In 2008, we established the MUFG Environmental Statement and Policy, which applies to all Group companies, with the aim of using our financing functions to tackle issues society is confronting on a global basis. Please also visit the following page of the Company’s website for detail of MUFG Environmental Statement and Policy. http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/policy Issuance of MUFG Green Bonds Allocation of Funds and Case study Leveraging Our Financing Functions In September 2016, MUFG became the first in the world Environmental Impact (As of the end of March 2017) Promotion and Popularization of Renewable Energy Beatrice Offshore Wind Farm Project (U.K.) to issue a Green Bond in conformity with international Balance of Eligible Green Projects that In the wake of a growing trend toward the use of clean TLAC1 regulations as part of initiatives to contribute to US$542 million Winning the Global Capital Syndicated Loan, Leveraged were funded by the net proceeds from energy, fossil fuels are gradually being replaced with environmental and social sustainability through its capital (total 17 projects) Finance and Private Placement Awards 2016 “Best the issuance of MUFG Green Bonds renewable energy sources in countries worldwide. Project Finance Loan” market activities. The use of proceeds from the issuance The total financing amount : £1,959.7 million of Green Bonds is limited to funding for renewable energy Power generation capacity: 588MW Total annual power generation capacity 4,355 million kWh Against this backdrop, MUFG is endeavoring to popularize and energy efficiency projects aimed at preserving the The project is expected to offset roughly 1,110,000 tons of renewable energy around the globe by acting as an CO2 emissions per year global environment. Total annual estimated reduction organizer and provider of financing related to clean 2.2 million tons volume (CO2equivalent) energy businesses, such as solar, hydroelectric, wind and In addition, the issuance of Green Bonds is in compliance For more details, please visit the following page of the Company’s website. geothermal power generation. Moreover, MUFG is with MUFG’s in-house framework based on the four pillars http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/greenbond/reporting/ supporting environmental and energy funds to assist of Green Bond Principles issued by the International business operators in their efforts to resolve Capital Market Association (ICMA). MUFG obtained a environmental issues. second opinion on its green bond framework and the Supporting the Fundraising of Customers Pursuing bond’s environment credential. Proceeds from these Eco-Friendly Business Operations Artist’s rendering of the completed facility bonds are used for financing EP-compliant eligible green MUFG boasts a variety of financing products aimed at 2016 Clean Energy and Energy Smart Technologies projects*2 through the Bank. assisting corporate customers with their pursuit of League Table Environmental and Social Risk Management Based on environmentally friendly business operations, including *1 Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity: A capital regulation applied to GSIBs. Rank Organization Credit Table Share the Equator Principles *2 Renewable energy projects whose environmental and social impacts are reviewed in products that provide preferential interest rates and (Millions of US$) (%) The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (the Bank) is a signatory to accordance with the EP before being certified as eligible to funding others that partially lift the burden of interest expenses 1 MUFG 2,911.0 6.64 the Equator Principles (EP), a risk management framework through the utilization of government subsidy programs. for identifying, assessing and managing the environmental 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 2,215.7 5.06 and social risks and impacts of large scale projects. The Moreover, by supporting eco-friendly business activities, Bank supports its customers’ environmental and social risk MUFG’s financing products are indirectly helping to 3 EIB 2,050.1 4.68 management and contributes toward a sustainable world reduce environmental burdens. through implementation of the EP. Furthermore, the Bank 4 Banco Santander 1,935.7 4.42 will not finance projects where the client will not, or is unable Investor Financing Products that Support Corporations in to, comply with the EP. The Bank also works together with the Environment and Energy Industries by Utilizing 5 Mizuho Financial 1,607.0 3.67 The net proceeds Government Subsidy Programs customers facing environmental and social issues in specific from the issuance Green Bonds sectors to ensure that the Projects are developed in a Environmental Management Support Loan 6 KfW 1,599.7 3.65 manner that is socially responsible and reflects sound MUFG Utilizing an interest subsidy program aimed at facilitating environmental management practices. 7 Siemens 1,485.6 3.39 eco-friendly financing under the auspices of the Ministry of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ the Environment 8 Nord/LB 1,404.5 3.21 Process for Confirmation of Environmental and Social Considerations of Projects Energy Conservation Support Loan Loans 9 BNP Paribas 1,245.9 2.84 Prior to financing a project, the Bank works closely with the customer to identify any environmental and social risks and impacts, and Utilizing an interest subsidy program aimed at supporting confirm that the project provides measures to avoid, minimize, capital expenditure in energy-saving facilities under the 10 BNDES 1,113.2 2.54 auspices of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry mitigate and/or offset risks and impacts. The Bank monitors ongoing EP compliance to ensure that the potential risks are controlled over Source: Bloomberg New Energy Finance the life of the loan. Eligible Green Projects Green Project Support Loan Wind power Solar photovoltaic Solar thermal Identification / Confirm measures to Finance Monitoring generation power generation power generation Utilizing an interest subsidy program aimed at supporting Evaluation avoid, minimize, mitigate projects projects projects financing for research into environmental risk under the and/or offset risks and auspices of the Ministry of the Environment impacts 48 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 49 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Environmental Initiatives Providing Consulting Services on Global Warming adaptation business sectors that would make Reducing Environmental Burdens Attributable OISCA Japan also implements human development Countermeasures contributions in this area. We have also made proposals to Our Business Activities training programs, targeting young people. Graduates of MUFG is supporting the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM), regarding a public-private partnership, hoping that our Curbing CO2 Emissions the training programs are expected to become future a carbon credit system designed to supplement the insights could help promote adaptation business MUFG is striving to reduce the environmental burdens of leaders and contribute to the development of their own Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) formulated based initiatives undertaken by Japanese companies. its operations and, to this end, promoting the effective respective communities and countries. on the Kyoto Protocol. With the Japanese government utilization of limited resources in various aspects of acting as an international advocate for this mechanism, Responding to TCFD business activities. For example, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi In collaboration with OISCA Japan, since 2008 MUFG MUFG provides consulting services aimed at helping Today, businesses are called upon to not only become UFJ has specified its target* for energy consumption conducts the Next Generation Leader Program for the commercialize cutting-edge initiatives to curb global aware of the risk attributable to and importance of attributable to its business operations, thereby promoting Asia Pacific Region in which trainees study about warming while developing schemes for financing countering global warming and climate change, but initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions and curb sustainable organic farming techniques and other skills. such initiatives. appropriately assess business opportunities stemming global warming. Many of the graduates are now serving in their home from such phenomena. In fact, a growing number of countries’ government agencies and research institutions, * Fiscal 2030 energy consumption intensity: 19% below the fiscal 2009 When it comes to global warming countermeasures, two institutional investors and financial authorities are paying level; Please also visit the Company’s website to see our latest actively working to raise awareness of and improve factors are important: Mitigating climate change; and close attention to the risk and opportunities that derive environmental performance. agriculture practices. Adapting to climate change. from climate change. The Task Force on Climate-related http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/others/ Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was thus established by the The latter involves implementing measures to reduce the Financial Stability Board, advocating the incorporation of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions* impact of climate change and preparing for the risks. climate change-related information into financial （t-CO2） In fiscal 2016, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities reporting disclosed by financial institutions. 250,000 224,501 served as the secretariat for compiling a draft of Prospects for Climate Change Adaptation Business by the We are well aware of the impact of climate change on 200,000 184,858 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. In this project, businesses and risk arising from it. As a financial we played a key role in identifying the size of the potential institution, MUFG will appropriately respond to the 150,000 145,517 164,687 148,892 market for an adaptation business as well as prospective TCFD’s recommendations. 100,000 50,000 Outline of the JCM Preserving World Heritage Sites 0 MUFG helps preserve World Heritage Sites, thereby The JCM is a bilateral credit creation scheme between Japan and developing countries proposed by the Japanese government to the international 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 （FY） community as a new mechanism to complement the CDM. Benefits of the JCM include mutual implementation of projects by Japan and any protecting the natural environments that are the common * Total of MUFG and the Bank (Domestic) country that signed a bilateral document, a broader range of applicable projects compared to the CDM, shorter processing times, and the inheritance of humankind and provide environmental availability of Japanese government subsidies. learning opportunities that help raise awareness Sign bilateral Initiatives to Promote Environmental Protection of sustainability. Japan Host country document and Environmental Education Environmental leadership development World Heritage Sites Preservation Initiatives Undertaken Use in achieving Japan’s reduction target Low-carbon JCM projects MUFG dispatches its experts to the Graduate School of by MUFG technology Keio University to give lectures on designing an Shirakami-Sanchi: Tree planting and forest Subsidy GHG emissions reduction/sequestration environmental business as part of the university’s development activities “Environmental Innovator Course.” By doing so, MUFG is Sacred Sites and Pilgrimage Routes in the Kii Credits joint committee Credits helping equip students with specialist knowledge and Japan Mountain Range: Site conservation activities develop future leaders who would contribute to a low Fujisan, Sacred Place and Source of Artistic carbon society. Inspiration: Environmental protection activities Assisting a Project Aimed at Reducing GHG Emissions through the JCM in a Developing Country Also, MUFG hosts lectures and seminars focused on China Mount Wuyi: Environmental protection activities Vietnam: Promotion of Green Hospitals through the officially registered and approved as a JCM project by the global warming and sustainable society at a number of Improvement of the Energy-Efficiency and Environment governments of Japan and Vietnam. Historic City of Ayutthaya: Site conservation universities, including Sophia University, Kwansei Gakuin Thailand at National Hospitals activities As part of the Dissemination and Promotion of Global Laos: Demonstration Project for an Energy-Saving Data University, Soka University and Meiji University, with its Warming Countermeasure Technology, a program Center Project experts sharing their insights on environmental Please visit the Company’s website for details of these activities. http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/community/hozen/ sponsored by the New Energy and Industrial Technology We assisted the development of the first full-scale businesses and carbon credit schemes as such the CDM Development Organization, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley government-run data center in Laos. This facility consists of and the JCM. Securities and two other Japanese companies assisted in the high-quality, high-efficiency and container-based data introduction of high-efficiency invertor air conditioning center units that consume 40% less energy than systems at national hospitals in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. conventional data center facilities. In this way, we are Collaborating with OISCA The project is expected to reduce energy consumption helping reduce GHG emissions and mitigate climate change. The Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural while improving air quality in the hospitals. In this project, we Advancement-International (OISCA) is an international were responsible for the development of measurement, According to our assessment, the reduction in the GHG NGO. Established on OISCA's philosophy, OISCA Japan is reporting and verification (MRV) methodology to assess the emissions volume through this project will amount to an engaged in the development of local rural areas and volume of GHG emissions reduced through the approximately 130,000t CO2 over the 10-year period implementation of the project and the preparation of between 2016 and 2026. implementing environmental conservation projects project design documents (PDD). The project has been mostly in the Asia Pacific Region. 50 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 51 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Social Contributions Part of MUFG’s mission is to contribute to the sound development of society through the financial business. For example, we support investment chains by playing the role of sales company and investment manager. We also help corporate customers resolve challenges they are facing, rallying our expertise and know-how beyond the boundaries of Group companies. Moreover, we provide educational programs and host seminars so that our customers can better understand what it takes to start investing. As a comprehensive financial group equipped with a wide variety of functions, we strive to satisfy the needs of our customers. Social 52 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 53 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Social Contributions (Japan’s Stewardship Code), engaging in stewardship Board of Directors, which, in turn, publicizes verification Rallying Groupwide Resources to Build Sophisticated initiatives based on these principles and endeavoring to improve the effectiveness of such initiatives. results submitted by the committee as part of the reporting on the self-evaluation. Investment Chains Establishing the Stewardship Committee Thoroughly Managing Conflicts of Interests The Trust Bank has its Stewardship Committee in place. To better fulfill its stewardship responsibilities, MUFG has The development of sophisticated investment chains plays an essential supporting role in assuring the stable As a dedicated body in charge of verifying the exercise of established systems and rules to prevent potential accumulation of household assets and sustainable growth for the economy. To help develop such investment the Trust Bank’s voting rights, engagement with investees conflicts of interest based on its Policy for Conflicts of chains, MUFG plays the dual role of sales company and asset manager. and its investment decisions, the committee assesses Interest Management. For example, the Trust Bank places whether these activities are sufficient and if the Trust restrictions on staff transfer between departments that Bank’s actions maximize investors’ interests. The directly engage with corporate customers and those in Stewardship Committee operates directly under the charge of administrating assets under management. The Board of Directors to ensure its independence and Trust Bank has also clarified in-house rules that ensure neutrality and discusses the appropriateness of policies that the exercise of its voting rights and investment Conceptual Diagram for the Investment Chains for and rules governing the Trust Banks’s exercise of decisions are not subject to improper influence while voting rights and the status of various initiatives aimed at strictly controlling access to relevant information. In these ensuring it fulfills its stewardship responsibilities. The ways, MUFG is enhancing the effectiveness of its 2 conclusions of these discussions are reported to the stewardship initiatives. Asset owners Asset Manager Public pension funds D Household Corporate pension funds Assets Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Investees B C Investment trusts Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Entrustment Asset Manegement Investment Pursuing Mediumto Long-Term Growth in Investment Returns MU Investments, etc. Playing its part in the establishment of investment chains, the Trust Bank Results of Exercised Voting Rights strives to help its investees grow their corporate earnings and enjoy (Japanese Equity) sustainable business expansion, with the aim of bringing greater A Management Proposals investment returns to beneficiaries. Opposed / Returns: Sustainable business expansion and growth in Proposal Supported Partial opposed Total corporate value over the mediumto long-term Dialogue with investees and in-house “engagement meetings” Appropriation of aimed at sharing and evaluating results of dialogue 316 5 321 1 surpluses Sales companies sell investment Asset manager conducts constructive • Analysts and fund managers engage in dialogue from four Election of 381 94 475 Sales Company products according to principles dialogue (engagement) and exercise perspectives (mediumto long-term business strategies; financial directors A C of customer-centric business of voting rights to improve the strategies; corporate governance; and information disclosure Election of auditors 206 44 250 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ management (Fiduciary Duties) corporate value of investees approach) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Partial revision to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities The asset owner asks the asset The investees strive to appropriately • Representatives from departments specializing in the exercise of articles of 133 3 136 kabu.com Securities manager to conduct stewardship build and administrate their voting rights engage in dialogue from the perspective of corporate incorporation Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB Securities, B D governance initiatives while monitoring such corporate governance systems for Retirement benefit etc. payments 32 18 50 initiatives sustainable growth • Results of each dialogue session are shared among and evaluated by meeting attendees, who, in turn, identify future issues and annual Revision of director policies for the upcoming fiscal year in an effort to enhance the quality remuneration 132 12 144 amount of the dialogues Granting of stock acquisition rights 31 15 46 1. MUFG’s role as a sales company: Pursuing a For the detail of the MUFG Basic Policy for Fiduciary Duties and initiatives The exercise of voting rights based on in-house guidelines Appointment Customer-first Business Approach undertaken by each Group company, please also visit the following page • Deciding how to vote with the goal of maximizing returns to of accounting 10 0 10 auditors of the Company’s website. beneficiaries in line with our voting guideline while referring to results MUFG aims to provide products and services that exceed http://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/governance/fd/ of dialogue with investees Restructuring*1 28 0 28 customer expectations and, to this end, has established • Disclosing the details of our voting standards on a corporate website the MUFG Basic Policy for Fiduciary Duties. Furthermore, 2. MUFG’s role as an asset manager: to enhance the transparency of the process of the exercise of voting Anti-takeover measures 18 11 29 MUFG, the Bank, the Trust Bank and the Securities Fulfilling our Stewardship Responsibilities rights Other proposals*2 38 2 40 Business Holdings have established the joint Fiduciary MUFG is maintaining engagement with its investees to Disclosure of results of voting on individual agenda items and Duty Promoting Committee, which operate under MUFG’s facilitate their sustainable growth from a mediumto Shareholder Proposals reasons for casting yes or no votes Executive Committee. long-term perspective. In doing so, MUFG is striving to • During the period from July 2016 to April 2017, there were 459 general 0 8 8 make the best use of its capabilities and expertise as an meetings of shareholders and the Trust Bank voted on a total of 1,537 The establishment of this joint committee is aimed at asset manager entrusted with customers’ invaluable agenda items; the voting results are summerized in the chart at the Total 1,325 212 1,537 enabling four participating companies to share their best assets. We believes that such engagement is key to right (July 2016 April 2017) practices and systematically promoting customer-first enhancing returns to beneficiaries in the long run. • Reasons for casting yes or no votes will be disclosed in August 2017 *1 Mergers, business hand-overs/take-overs, share transfers and business operations throughout the group. In addition, company splits *2 Acquisition of treasury stock, decrease in statutory reserves, MUFG is committed to maintaining the regular reporting In particular, the Trust Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset For more details, please visit the following page on the Trust Bank’s website. increases in capital by third-party allotment, capital decrease, http://www.tr.mufg.jp/houjin/jutaku/unyou_kabu.html reverse stock split, etc. on the status of each group company with regard to their Management and MU Investments Co., Ltd. have adopted practice of such an approach. the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors 54 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 55 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Social Contributions Helping Customers Better Understand What It maintaining the trust of other members of communities Helping Corporate Customers Achieve Growth Takes to Start Investing Amidst a graying society accompanied by a declining in Japan and overseas. through Financing birthrate, a growing number of people are expected to face the need for solutions that ensure the stable Microfinance In ASEAN countries, the Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) helps accumulation of assets. With this in mind, MUFG is support low-income earners who are unable to obtain In September 2015, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted at the United Nations Sustainable providing various educational programs and seminars adequate access to financial services through the Development Summit, with 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) being formulated to address specific issues tailored to meet the interests of audiences from different provision of “microfinance” aimed at helping them gain around the world. Against this backdrop, businesses are being called to become more active in offering solutions age groups, helping them better understand what it takes financial independence. for issues society is confronting through their business activities. Accordingly, MUFG is committed to helping to begin investing. resolve a variety of such issues through the provision of financial and other services. In particular, Krungsri is an industry leader in the field of microfinancing in Thailand as it provides auto loans and Elementary, junior high and high school students nano-finance through subsidiary Ngern Tid Lor, which Supporting Corporate Growth Best Partner for Corporations Expanding Overseas ・Domestic and overseas branches welcome local elementary, serves as the single provider of microfinance under the Acting as a partner for its corporate customers, MUFG is In step with the globalization of the business junior high and high school students, offering them workplace supervision of a banking parent company. well aware of the fact that their needs may vary widely environment, a growing number of Japanese experience programs. We also provide on-demand lectures at due to differing levels of development. Accordingly, corporations are expanding into countries abroad to local schools. Global Volunteer Month “MUFG Gives Back” MUFG optimizes its services to fit their individual needs, establish production bases and secure new ・Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities has been running an Since 2013, MUFG has held an annual Global Volunteer educational program aimed at helping junior high and high whether they are startups, growing corporations, mature sales channels. Month to encourage employees worldwide to school students learn about stock investment and was selected companies or companies undergoing simultaneously engage in community contribution as a winner of an Award for Companies Promoting Experiencecorporate rehabilitation. Drawing on its excellent intelligence-gathering activities. This campaign is subtitled “MUFG Gives Back,” based Learning Activities for the Youth (Judging Committee's capabilities backed by an industry-leading overseas Incentive Award) under a commendation program sponsored reflecting our aspiration to communicate our gratitude to business network and longstanding track record, MUFG by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science people all around the world who generously supported acts as a partner for corporations considering overseas and Technology. Japan’s reconstruction efforts after the Great East ・Offering financing and various other solutions expansion as well as for those in need of various types of Japan Earthquake. to assist customers with their pursuit of assistance once they have secured footholds in countries University students success in growth fields ・We give lectures aimed at enhancing basic financial literacy abroad. Our staff, backed by a wealth of experience in Startup Please also see the ESG feature on page 37 that reports on with regard to properly managing loans, credit cards and “Rise Up Festa.” and knowledge of specific countries and regions, Stage household budgets while providing knowledge about various Number of award-winning corporations proposes regional strategies that take into consideration asset building methods based on personal life plans. Fiscal 2016 included in the fiscal 2016 Rise Up Festa local investment environments and relevant regulations. Total hours spent for volunteer activities 11 companies Moreover, MUFG boasts a number of domestic and Businesspersons Approximately 270,000 hours* overseas bases that work in close collaboration to provide ・We hold asset building seminars for individual customers and customers with solutions for the management issues they provide tips on asset formation online. face, from optimal fundraising methods for overseas ・Creating business opportunities through November 2016 MUFG Gives Back bases to global cash management advice and the business matching provision of financial strategies for cross-border M&A. In addition, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation A total of more than 6,500 employees in ・Supporting corporations seeking to expand globally (the Trust Bank) is promoting a variety of initiatives to 39 countries and regions participated in the Growth campaign Number of business matching cases*1 in fiscal 2016 assist corporate customers in this regard, leveraging its Stage Approximately 22,000 An Interview with a Corporate Customer investment know-how accumulated in the course of *1 The total of individual business matches achieved by corporate pension administration as well as its specialist * The total of employees at the Bank, MUFG Union Bank, N.A. and Krungsri(Bank of Ayudhya) branches and at dedicated business matching events held knowledge of real estate and residential mortgage loans. in Japan and overseas Mr. Minoru Ooto, General Manager, Overseas Business Division, Specifically, a dedicated department charged with IKARI SHODOKU CO., LTD., as acting President investment education is holding on-demand seminars Director of Pt IKARI SHODOKU INDONESIA aimed at facilitating their employees’ understanding of ・Supporting smooth business succession investment and asset management while providing Number of customer visits during fiscal 2016 Although we have positioned Indonesia as our overseas Maturation web-based educational programs on these subjects. The expansion strategy’s first target due to its growth potential, Stage Approximately 4,000 we have been facing difficulties in gathering accurate Trust Bank has also developed a unique “financial literacy information on such aspects of local conditions as index,” utilizing it to enhance the content of its consulting regulations on foreign capital. The Bank of Tokyoservices and educational solutions targeting corporate Mitsubishi UFJ was able to help us with our inquiries, customers being aware of a need for educating their ・Assisting corporate rehabilitation in providing us with the latest information and helpful advice collaboration with external expert and thereby assisting in the establishment of our local employees on these matters. Since June 2015, the Trust organizations subsidiary in April 2017. Currently, we provide Bank has hosted around 600 such seminars, with the Number of in-house specialists in corporate comprehensive hygiene management services targeting number of attendees totaling approximately 18,000. Revitalization rehabilitation*2 mainly food and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Even Stage after the establishment of our local base, MUFG continued Approximately 90 to provide us with business matching services as well as As a Member of Local Community *2 The total number of specialists at domestic headquarters updates about local regulations. We are grateful for its MUFG is committed to supporting the development of at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ generous assistance. communities in each region it operates. At the same time, Staff at the Colombo office in Sri Lanka paid a visit to Kumarathunga Munidasa junior high school, located in a region devastated by heavy rainfalls, and MUFG is promoting various initiatives aimed at donated new shoes and socks for students 56 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 57 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework MUFG has positioned corporate governance as a priority management issue in its pursuit of greater corporate value. Since its establishment, MUFG has placed great emphasis on ensuring external oversight while pushing forward with relentless initiatives to build a stable and effective governance framework. Recently, MUFG shifted to a “company with three committees” structure, in June 2015. In June 2017, MUFG welcomed two outside directors from Thailand and the United States, reinforcing the Board of Directors’ diversity to better deal with the globalization of its operations. Governance MUFG Report 2017 59 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework Ensuring sustainable growth in our corporate value Diversifying the Composition of Board Members Fundamental Concepts putting emphasis on ensuring external oversight. In June Currently, 38% of MUFG’s shareholders are foreign corporations and other overseas shareholders. MUFG will aim for sustainable growth and the increase of 2015, MUFG transitioned to the “company with three Furthermore, with regard to the net operating profits in the customer segments, 40% of profits were corporate value over the mediumto long-term, in committees” governance structure. The functions of earned from overseas business. In addition, the ratio of overseas employees to the total workforce is consideration of the perspectives of its stakeholders, oversight and execution in the holding company are 41%. In essence, a considerable portion—nearly 40%—of MUFG’s business base is outside Japan. With including shareholders as well as customers, employees separated, thereby strengthening the oversight function this in mind, two foreign nationals—one from Thailand and the other from the United States were and local communities. MUFG will aim to realize effective of the Board of Directors and the committee system has appointed as directors for the very first time. This move is aimed at securing management supervision corporate governance through fair and highly transparent also been reorganized for more effective governance. We from the perspectives of experts in Asia (MUFG’s second home market) and North America. These management based on the guidance provided by MUFG are aiming for a governance framework that will be more appointments have enhanced the composition of MUFG’s Board of Directors, which strives to strike Corporate Governance Policies established in May 2015. familiar and transparent to overseas stakeholders, in line an optimal balance in terms of field of specialty, geographical expertise and gender diversity. with our status as a G-SIB (Global Systemically Important Steps to Improve Our Governance Structure Bank). In June 2017, two foreign nationals were appointed Since its establishment, MUFG has worked to build a as directors to further diversify the Board of Directors. stable and effective corporate governance structure, Corporate Governance Development October 2005 June 2013 June 2014 June 2015 June 2016 June 2017 Establishment of MUFG Governance Company with Three Company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Structure Committees Outside 2005 2006 2012 Eight (Two Three Five Six Seven Directors Four Three Two foreign nationals) Toby S. Myerson Tarisa Watanagase Governance Former Partner of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP Former Governor of the Bank of Thailand Committee Nominating and Governance Committee Longsight Strategic Advisors LLC The Siam Cement Public Company Limited (Statutory Nominating Chairman & CEO Outside Director 2005 Committee) Outside Director of MUFG Union Bank, N.A. and Nomination Committee 2008 MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation Aformer governer of the Bank of Thailand boasting Nomination and Compensation Committee specialist knowledge in finance and economy and more 2005 Compensation Committees A lawyer who boasts specialist knowledge of corporate legal than 30 years of experience as a central banker Compensation Committee Committee (Statutory) under the affairs, M&A and other legal matters based on U.S. laws Board thanks to more than 30 years of experience of Directors 2005 Audit Committee Internal Audit and Compliance Committee (Statutory) Risk Committee Total Customer Shareholder Stucture* Group Employees* Segment revenues* U.S. Risk Committee 2005 Advisory Board Advisory Integrated into the Global Foreign Global Banking Overseas Board Advisory Board institutions, etc. Business Employees Global Advisory Board 38% 40% 41% Evaluation of Board of Directors Board of Directors Independent Outside Operations Directors Meeting/ Appointment of Lead Independent Outside Director * As of Mar. 31, 2017 MUFG Corporate Policy Governance Policies 60 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 61 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework Outline of Board of Directors and Committees corporate governance policy and framework and makes Risk Committee U.S. Risk Committee The Board of Directors is composed of 18 members, of recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Committee is composed of internal directors, In May 2016, MUFG established the U.S. Risk Committee whom 8 (over one third) are outside directors with a high outside directors and outside expert members, with an under the MUFG Risk Committee in order to comply degree of independence. Of the 18 directors, the majority Compensation Committee outside director as Chairperson. The Committee with the Enhanced Prudential Standards. The U.S. Risk (10) are non-executive directors. The Committee is composed of outside directors and the examines matters related to Groupwide risk Committee is composed of the members of MUFG President & CEO, with an outside director as Chairperson. management and reports to the Board of Directors. It Americas Holdings Corporation (the Americas HD) Risk The outside directors are a balanced group (corporate The Committee decides the compensation policy for examines important issues of the overall risk Committee, delegate(s) from MUFG, Regional Executive management, financial specialists, a lawyer and a certified directors and corporate executive officers and also management matters and issues relating to the top risk for the Americas and CEO of the Americas HD. The U.S. public accountant) with a diverse range of experience decides the details of individual compensation. It matters (including critical compliance matters), as well Risk Committee shall deliberate on all types of risk in and expertise. examines the compensation systems for senior as other issues that need to be examined by the Risk the U.S. on a group basis, report and make management at the holding company and major Committee and makes recommendations to the Board recommendations to the MUFG Risk Committee as well Nominating and Governance Committee subsidiaries and makes recommendations on of Directors. as oversee the status, control and management of the The Committee is composed of outside directors and the establishment and reform to the Board of Directors. material risks to which MUFG’s operations in the U.S. President & CEO, with an outside director as Chairperson. may be exposed and overall risk management The Committee decides on proposals for the Audit Committee framework in respect of MUFG’s operations in the U.S.. appointment or dismissal of directors that are submitted The Committee is composed of outside directors and to the General Meetings of Shareholders. It also discusses non-executive directors, with an outside director as matters related to the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Chairperson. The Committee examines the execution of President, and other major management positions in the business by directors and corporate executive officers MUFG's corporate governance structure (As of June 29, 2017) holding company or major subsidiaries and makes and prepares auditing reports. It also examines the recommendations to the Board of Directors. It examines business and financial situation of the holding company and subsidiaries, conducting fieldwork where necessary. General Meeting of Shareholders Committee membership Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Nominating and Compensation Audit Risk U.S. Risk Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Oversight Committee Board of Directors Statutory Committees Hiroshi Kawakami Outside director ◯ ◯ ◯ Non-executive Director (Ten) Nominating and Governance Committee Yuko Kawamoto Outside director ◯ ◯ ◎ Executive Director (Eight) Compensation Committee Haruka Matsuyama Outside director ◯ ◎ Tsutomu Okuda Outside director ◎ ◯ ◯ Audit Committee Yukihiro Sato Outside director ◯ Akira Yamate Outside director ◎ Risk Committee U.S. Risk Committee*1 Takehiko Shimamoto Non-executive director ◯ Junichi Okamoto Non-executive director ◯ *1 Established based on the U.S. Prudential Regulations Director Nobuyuki Hirano President & Group CEO ◯ ◯ Execution Director Executive Committee Global Advisory Board Tadashi Kuroda Senior Managing Executive Officer, ◯ Group CSO & Group CHRO President & Group CEO Outside expert, Akira Ariyoshi graduate school professor ◯ Kenzo Yamamoto Outside expert ◯ C-Suite Officers in Charge Christine Garvey Outside director of the Americas HD ◎ Planning and Administration Divisions Business Groups Dean A. Yoost Outside director of the Americas HD ◯ Ann F. Jaedicke Outside director of the Americas HD ◯ Suneel Kamlani Outside director of the Americas HD ◯ Outside director Toby S. Myerson Outside director of the Americas HD ◯ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. General Meeting of Shareholders Masato Miyachi Chairman of the Americas HD ◯ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Stephen Cummings President & CEO of the Americas HD ◯ Audit & Supervisory Cooperation Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. Board of Directors Director Committee Masamichi Yasuda Senior Managing Executive Officer, Group CRO ◯ Membership includes outside directors and committee members (As of June 29, 2017) 62 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 63 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework Strengthening the Function of the Stepping Up Support for Outside Directors while Board of Directors Utilizing Their Insights Having transitioned to the “company with three Board Educational Sessions are held to support outside committees” structure in 2015, MUFG is striving to directors by providing necessary information beyond the strengthen its corporate governance and the function of the scope of the discussion agendas of the Board of Directors Board of Directors. meetings. Outside directors attend these sessions to be apprised of MUFG’s business operations and the Operational Status of the Board of Directors management environment surrounding it immediately The Board of Directors decides on basic management upon their appointment and on a regular basis during policies while taking on the supervision of management their terms of service. Evaluation Framework of the Working Practices Remuneration System activities. In principle, business matters other than those of the Board of Directors MUFG has adopted a performance-based stock reserved for the Board of Directors in accordance with the Moreover, in addition to attending Board of Directors and Since 2013, with the aim of enhancing the function of its compensation plan for all directors, corporate executive law are delegated to and decided on by corporate executive statutory committee meetings, outside directors engage Board of Directors, MUFG has introduced a framework to officers and executive officers who serve at the holding officers. However, particularly important matters (listed in intensive discussions on the Group’s business regularly evaluate the Board of Directors’ working company, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and below) are discussed and decided on solely by the Board strategies and challenges going forward and interact with practices through implementation of a PDCA cycle. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking as well as Mitsubishi UFJ of Directors. employees in managerial positions on a number Securities Holdings and its subsidiaries. The introduction of occasions. External consultants interview each director on the of this plan is intended to provide greater incentives for composition of the Board of Directors, the content of those individuals to maintain an awareness of the Group’s • Management strategy, risk management policy, capital agendas, the discussions at Board Directors meetings, overall corporate performance and stock price over the policy, resource allocation and other basic management Strategic off-site meetings the operations of the Board, and the Board’s medium-to long-term when pursuing their duties. policies for the entire Group • Supervision of directors and corporate executive officers contributions. Results of these interviews and Specifically, the plan acquires company stocks through a who take on business execution Utilizing the insights of Outside Directors assessments by consultants are reported and discussed trust and provides recipients with such shares based on • Internal control systems for the Group and the monitoring • Outside directors and Group managers meet on weekend to engage by the Nominating and Governance Committee and the their job ranks and their degree of achievement vis-à-vis of the development and operation of such systems in intensive discussions Board of Directors. performance targets. As stipulated in Principle 4.2 of • Appointment of corporate executive officers Sample agendas: MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy, global human • Oversight of initiatives to develop a corporate governance resource strategies, etc. Japan’s corporate governance code, MUFG has in place a structure and to facilitate a sound corporate culture The Nominating and The Board of remuneration system that includes “incentives such that Interviews with directors Governance Directors it reflects midto long-term business results and potential Discussions with outside directors at MUFG Americas carried out by external Committee receives receives report Holdings Corporation (the Americas HD) consultants and the risks, as well as promotes healthy entrepreneurship.” report and and deliberates preparation of report Having transitioned to the “company with three deliberates on it on it Stepping up information gathering committees” structure in June 2015, MUFG reviewed the Components of performance-based stock agenda discussed at Board of Directors meetings while • Outside directors who serve at the Americas HD and are well-versed Based on the results of the fiscal 2015 evaluation compensation plan in the policies of U.S. authorities bring their input into discussions on examining the operation of the Board (including the corporate governance undertaken to assess the Board of Directors activities, Linkage with performance frequency of such meetings). As a result, the number of MUFG implemented various initiatives including those Grant of shares meetings, time, the number of the agenda items, volume listed below. Indices MUFG Investors Day of materials largely decreased respectively. In addition, it ・Holding strategic off-site meetings to discuss mediumto Link with mediumenables them to allocate enough time to long-term strategies and issues to be tackled going to long-term Face-to-face dialogue with institutional investors necessary discussions. forward, with the aim of enhancing our monitoring model performance • Outside director Tsutomu Okuda* gave a presentation and led Q&A ・Enhancing our framework to keep execution team ● EPS growth rate sessions on MUFG’s corporate governance (see page 66) Board of Directors meetings are followed by Independent members of MUFG and operating subsidiaries in the loop Link with annual Outside Directors Meetings attended only by outside on the status of discussions held at Board of Directors performance MUFG Management Meeting PerformanceGranted to all directors. At these meetings, attendees engage in meetings linked portion Relative comparisons recipients at deliberations regarding such matters as the operation of the ・Engaging in discussions with regard to our ideal for the (Performanceof growth rates in the the end of the Communication with executive officers based stock following indices medium-term Board of Directors and committees, collaboration between composition of the Board of Directors, which, in turn, compensation) business plan the Board and corporate executive officers, and possible • Outside directors give presentations to bring their insights at MUFG reached the decision to appoint outside directors who 1. Consolidated net Management Meeting, where all Group executive officers and general business profits measures to enhance the function of outside directors. are foreign nationals managers meet and discuss Group policies and the challenges 2. Consolidated profits Conclusions reached at this meeting are reported to the ・Formulating succession plans for personnel in attributable to chairman, who heads the Board of Directors, and the * Lead Independent Outside Director, Chairperson of Nominating and key positions owners of the parent president by the Lead Independent Outside Director. Governance Committee 3. Market capitalization Based on the results of the fiscal 2016 evaluation, MUFG Fixed portion recognized that the following measures should be performanceGranted to Status of the Board of Directors’ Operations implemented going forward. based stock ● Granted based on individual Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 compensation job ranks recipients at the (Apr. 2014 to Mar. 2015) (Apr. 2015 to Mar. 2016) (Apr. 2016 to Mar. 2017) ・Utilizing the insights of board members who have global with transfer time of retirement Number of meetings held 19 12 7 perspectives by appointing foreign nationals; stepping up restrictions other initiatives in preparation for the diversity of the Number of agenda items 296 170 83 Board of Directors Average duration of regular Board of Directors 2.5 hours 3.2 hours 5.5 hours ・Upgrading the governance systems for the Group meetings ・Enhancing succession plans and developing nextMaterials (annual total) Approx. 1,640 pages Approx. 730 pages Approx. 430 pages generation management leaders 64 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 65 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework open minded people—a quality I admire. Most MUFG needed for the position, looking to strike a good balance Dialogue between Lead Independent Outside Director Board of Directors meetings are followed by Independent Outside Directors Meetings that all outside directors in terms of background, experience, way of thinking and business orientation. and Investors attend. When conclusions reached at this meeting are communicated to the chairman and president, they Nevertheless, the presence of non-Japanese nationals quickly take action where necessary. In short, MUFG, needs to be increased. I think it’s necessary in light of We held MUFG Investors Day in February 2017. As part of the meeting, Mr. Okuda, lead independent outside despite its large size, is quick to incorporate external how global MUFG’s business has become. I’ve already director,answered investor's questions, as follows. voices, which makes my position quite rewarding. asked that we try to bring in such personnel to the Board. MUFG’s Advisory Board has an excellent international of critical importance for MUFG to continue What do you think is the role of an outside director at composition, with each member boasting world-leading corporate reforms. normal, non-crisis times? expertise. I think that outside directors should be next. I (Analyst from a major foreign securities firm) would also like to see non-Japanese personnel in business I think that outside directors are absolutely necessary, execution roles in the near future. As an outside director, what do you see as MUFG’s whether external conditions are favorable or harsh. The risks? extra diligence and effort to do things right when you As for accepting outside directors from other companies (Analyst from a major domestic securities firm) know that someone from outside is watching is crucial. in the industry, it’s very common overseas, and I think it’s The greatest risk has to do with how radically MUFG will a positive thing. Japanese corporations have long be able to reform itself and innovate, given the shrinking At MUFG, the executives in top management take the maintained unique “lifetime employment” systems that domestic market and the prolonged trend toward low opinions of outside directors seriously. I admire their often serve as barriers to incorporating such a practice. interest rates. Also, the overseas portfolio is also quite seriousness, which, in turn, inspires us. However, I think the trend might shift in a near future. large, especially in the United States. A portfolio with a In fact, there were some instances involving retailers. large overseas component can be advantageous, but The Nominating and Governance Committee has to keep I think it may be possible for Japanese financial also presents risks. up with changes in society. An outside perspective is also institutions, as well. needed when creating succession plans. For example, Tsutomu Okuda Both of these risks are tied to two major tasks facing the successor candidates are designated based on standards Lead Independent Outside Director, Chair of the Nominating and group. The first is human resource development. that the committee has laid out regarding personality, What will MUFG need in order to thrive 10 years Governance Committee, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Senior Advisor, J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd. Overseas operations are increasing, and at the same competencies, experience and track record to assess from now? (Analyst from a major foreign securities firm) time, domestic operations are changing in ways that fitness for key positions. Then, they undergo screening increasingly preclude simply extending and adapting involving a 360-degree feedback session in which five to Currently, MUFG’s operations are centered on What do you feel are the strengths and weaknesses of past ways of doing things. To deal with this, the group 10 candidates evaluate one another. Finally, members of commercial banking. However, there’s no guarantee that MUFG’s corporate culture? has to reform and innovate. The challenge is to develop the committee conduct face-to-face interviews with MUFG’s business portfolio 10 years from now will look (Analyst from a major domestic securities firm) people who are equipped for the evolving those who have passed screening. Based on the interview much like it does today. Nevertheless, if you focus too If you think about what makes a good company, one of operating environment. results, committee members deliberate on and finalize hard on what’s ahead, you risk tripping over the issues the most important things is social trust and confidence. their proposals, which they then submit to the Board of right in front of you. Although it is not the easiest thing to Trust and confidence are at the foundation of finance, The second major task is systems investment on a Directors. It’s important to select someone who fits the do, I think the important thing is to constantly consider too. In this light, I feel that there is great strength in massive scale. Financial institutions that do not invest in needs of the times, and to be transparent with employees how best to reshuffle it in light of social and economic MUFG’s corporate culture. At the same time, I also think systems do not survive. As the group operates globally, and other stakeholders. changes, and how best to balance shortand long-term that the Company’s culture might be a bit too it must build systems running globally. In recent perspectives while making each business even stronger. conservative and risk averse. discussions I had with outside directors at MUFG I think the only way that this process might ever vary from Americas Holdings Corporation I found them conscious the normal way of doing things is if, in a time of One major task for us will be managing the ratio of The development of corporate culture is difficult. The of this issue. I believe that both quality and quantity are emergency, we might not be able to find someone within domestic and overseas business. I’m sure the proportion important thing is to keep the good parts while important to such investment. the company, and instead bring in a person or persons of overseas business will continue to grow, but I think our reinforcing areas of weakness. In my assessment, MUFG from the outside. base should always be Japan. I think we should perhaps scores highly in this regard, as its leaders and employees give a 50% weight to our domestic business. are seriously committed to accomplishing Could you tell us why did you take up the offer of an Anyway, the Nominating and Governance Committee has such development. outside director position at MUFG? a twofold function in this regard, namely, determining Also, where to strike the balance between individual and (Representative from a domestic major institutional investor) requirements for key personnel and maintaining the corporate customers is a big question in terms of On the other hand, if I had to name one concern, I don’t MUFG is among the world’s most prominent transparency of the selection process. These functions business portfolio strategy. And, finally, developing see so many ambitious employee willing to venture out of corporations, boasting a strong presence globally. As a are essential as they help ensure corporate growth and human resources and building systems based on our their comfort zones within their current organizations. As businessperson, it is my honor to be appointed as an improve corporate value. business strategies will also be important. These are the IT and market environments dramatically change, the outside director of MUFG. major things to consider when looking 10 years down partitions between all kinds of industries are disappearing. the line. It will be crucial to adapt to changes with maximum Although I had long known of MUFG’s trustworthiness, How are outside directors selected? What functions speed and flexibility. Our operating environment is I was somewhat surprised to find its top executives do you currently feel you need or want to strengthen? (Representative from a major domestic institutional investor) undergoing radical and noncontiguous changes. With seriously reflecting on the input of outside directors, even this in mind, encouraging all employees to remain vigilant taking on board harsh criticism, and showing no When selecting outside directors, we don’t focus on and share a healthy sense of crisis even at normal time is hesitation in embracing worthy new ideas. They are truly “who,” in terms of names, but on what kind of person is 66 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 67 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Board of Directors As of June 29, 2017 Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Director, Chairman Director, Deputy Chairman Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Hiroshi Kawakami 1 Toby S. Myerson 4 Tarisa Watanagase 7 Kiyoshi Sono 11 Kanetsugu Mike 14 Group CFO Advisor, Central Japan International Airport Lawyer, Chairman & CEO, Longsight Strategic Advisors LLC Former Governor of the Bank of Thailand Deputy Chairman, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ President and CEO of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Muneaki Tokunari 17 Mr. Kawakami joined TOYOTA in 1972. He became Mr. Myerson has been registered as attorney at law of Ms. Watanagase first joined the Bank of Thailand in Mr. Sono joined Sanwa Bank in 1976. In 2012, he Mr. Mike joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1979. He was Mr. Tokunari joined Mitsubishi Trust and Banking in Managing Executive Officer of TOYOTA in 2003, and California and New York, U.S. in 1977, Mr. Myerson has 1975. During her career as a central banker, she was became group head of MUFG’s Integrated appointed Regional Executive for the Americas at 1982. He became Senior Managing Director of Senior Managing Director in 2007. In 2008, he held top management positions in a career spanning also seconded to International Monetary Fund (IMF) Corporate Banking Business Group, and he was MUFG and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking in 2013 and in 2014 became Vice President of Toyota Tsusho Corp. and in four decades, most recently as Partner and as in 1988 and served as an economist. In 2002, she made Chairman in 2014, as well as Deputy Chairman Executive Chairman of the Board at MUFG Americas Managing Officer of MUFG. In June 2016, he was 2009 he was appointed President of the Central Co-Chair of Global Mergers and Acquisitions at Paul, assumed the position of Deputy Governor of the of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. He was appointed Holdings Corporation and MUFG Union Bank, N.A., appointed as Director and Senior Managing Japan International Airport Co., Ltd. In June 2015, he Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. He left the bank. From 2006 to 2010, she served as Governor of Director, Representative Corporate Executive Officer in 2015. He was appointed a Senior Managing Executive Officer of MUFG (incumbent) and Senior became a Senior Advisor of Central Japan firm in December 2016 and founded a strategic the central bank of the country. Since 2013, she has and Chairman of MUFG in June 2015 (incumbent). Executive Officer of MUFG and a Deputy President Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ International Airport as well as an Outside Director of advisory firm in January, 2017 where he serves as served as an Outside Director of The Siam Cement of the Bank in 2016. Mr. Mike became President and (incumbent). MUFG (incumbent). In 2016, he became an Outside Chairman & CEO. He also serves as an Outside Public Company Limited. She was appointed Outside Director, Deputy Chairman CEO of the Bank (incumbent) and Director, Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Director of AT-Group Co., Ltd. (incumbent) and, in Director of both MUFG Union Bank, N.A. and MUFG Director of MUFG (incumbent) in 2017. Takashi Nagaoka 12 Representative Corporate Executive Officer and Group CRO 2017, he was appointed Advisor for the Central Japan Americas Holdings Corporation. He was appointed Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent) in Outside Director President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings International Airport (incumbent). Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent) in 2017. Company June 2017. Masamichi Yasuda 18 Outside Director Outside Director (Lead Independent Outside Director) Akira Yamate 8 President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Director, President & Group CEO Mr. Yasuda joined the Bank of Tokyo in 1983. In 2014, Certified Public Accountant Yuko Kawamoto 2 Tsutomu Okuda 5 Mr. Yamate joined Price Waterhouse in 1977, Securities Company Nobuyuki Hirano 15 he became Managing Officer of Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ. He was appointed a Senior Managing Mr. Nagaoka joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1976. In 2011, Professor, Waseda Graduate School of Business and Finance Senior Advisor, J. Front Retailing becoming a certified public accountant in 1983. In Chairman, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Director of the Bank (incumbent) and a Director and he became Deputy President of Bank of TokyoAfter working at Bank of Tokyo from 1982 to 1986, Ms. Mr. Okuda joined The Daimaru, Inc. in 1964. In 1997, 1991, he became a Representative Partner of Aoyama Mitsubishi UFJ. In 2014, he became President & CEO Mr. Hirano joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1974. In 2012, he Senior Managing Executive Officer of MUFG Kawamoto joined McKinsey & Company in 1988. At he was named President of Daimaru and in 2003 Audit Corporation and a Partner of Price Waterhouse. of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities was appointed as President of Bank of Tokyo(incumbent) in 2017. McKinsey, she was promoted to Senior Expert of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In 2007, he In 2000, he became a Representative Partner of Company (incumbent) and President & CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ, and a year later, in 2013, he became Tokyo branch in 2001. After leaving McKinsey, she assumed the Office of President and Chief Executive Chuo Aoyama Audit Corporation and a Partner of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Company President of MUFG. In June 2015, he was appointed took up a professorship of the Waseda Graduate Officer of J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd., where he Pricewaterhouse Coopers. From 2006 to 2013, he (incumbent). In the same year, he was appointed as as Director, Representative Corporate Executive School of Finance, Accounting and Law (current became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in was a Representative Partner of Pricewaterhouse a Director of MUFG. In June 2015, he was appointed Officer and President & Group CEO of MUFG name: Business and Finance) in 2004 (incumbent). 2010. Since 2014, he has served as a Senior Advisor Coopers Aarata. In 2013, he was appointed as a as Director, Representative Corporate Executive (incumbent). In April 2016, he became Chairman of From 2006, Ms. Kawamoto has served as an Outside of the company. In 2014, Mr. Okuda was appointed as Corporate Auditor of Nomura Real Estate Holdings Officer and Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent). the Bank (incumbent). Audit and Supervisory Board Member of Tokio Marine an Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent). and Nomura Real Estate. In June 2015, he was Holdings, Inc. In 2013, she became an Outside appointed as an Outside Director of MUFG Director, Deputy Chairman Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Outside Director Group CSO & Group CHRO Director of MUFG (incumbent). (incumbent) and in the same year appointed as a Mikio Ikegaya 13 Outside Director Yukihiro Sato 6 Director of an External Nomura Real Estate Holdings President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Tadashi Kuroda 16 (incumbent), and an External Corporate Auditor of Adviser, Mitsubishi Electric Haruka Matsuyama 3 Mr. Sato joined Mitsubishi Electric Corporation in Prudential Holdings of Japan (incumbent). Corporation Mr. Kuroda joined Sanwa Bank in 1981. In 2014, he was appointed Managing Director of MUFG and in Mr. Ikegaya joined Mitsubishi Trust and Banking in Lawyer, Partner, Hibiya Park Law Offices 1969, and was appointed Director, Representative Director the same year a Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and 1981. In June 2015, he became Senior Managing Ms. Matsuyama became an Assistant Judge to the Tokyo District Court in 1995. Upon becoming an Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President in 2007. In 2009, he became Senior Corporate Adviser. Takehiko Shimamoto 9 Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, and Banking (incumbent). In June 2015, he was appointed as a Director and Senior Managing Managing Officer of MUFG. In April 2016, he was attorney-at-law and joining the Daini Tokyo Bar From 2013, he served as Special Adviser of Mitsubishi Mr. Shimamoto joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1982. In Executive Officer of MUFG (incumbent) and a Senior appointed President & CEO of the Trust Bank Association in 2000, she joined Hibiya Park Law Electric. In 2014, he was appointed as an Outside 2012, he became a Managing Officer of MUFG and a Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (incumbent). In June 2016, he became Director and Offices, where she was promoted to a Partner in Corporate Auditor of MUFG and in the same year an Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (incumbent). Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent). 2002. Ms. Matsuyama also became an Outside Adviser to Mitsubishi Electric (incumbent). In June (hereafter “the Bank”). In June 2015, he was appointed Corporate Auditor of Vitec Co., Ltd. in 2012, an 2015, he became an Outside Director of as a Director of MUFG (incumbent). Outside Director of T&D Holdings, Inc. in 2013, and an MUFG (incumbent). Director External Corporate Auditor of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in 2014. In 2014, she became an Outside Director of Junichi Okamoto 10 MUFG (incumbent) and in 2015, became an Outside Mr. Okamoto joined Toyo Trust and Banking in 1980. Director of VITEC HOLDINGS CO., LTD (incumbent). He became a Director and Deputy President of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (hereafter “the Trust Bank”) and a Director of MUFG in 2013. Mr. Okamoto was appointed a Senior Managing Executive Officer (Note) Mr. Hiroshi Kawakami, Ms. Yuko Kawamoto, Ms. Haruka Matsuyama, Mr. Toby S. Myerson, Mr. Tsutomu of MUFG in 2015. He became a Director, Deputy Okuda, Mr. Yukihiro Sato, Ms. Tarisa Watanagase and Mr. Akira Yamate are outside directors defined in Article 2, President and Executive Officer of the Trust Bank in Item 15 of the Companies Act. 2016. In June 2017, he was appointed a Director of MUFG (incumbent). 68 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 69 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Upgrading the Governance Framework As of June 29, 2017 Global Advisory Board Corporate Executive Officers MUFG has established the Global Advisory Board to function as advisory bodies to the Executive Committee, and the Board holds regular meetings. The Global Advisory Board is made up of members from Japan, Europe, Asia, and Kiyoshi Sono Saburo Araki Atsushi Murakami the Americas who are external experts in areas such as corporate management, financial regulation, and Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Chairman Group Head, Corporate Banking Business Group Group Head, Retail Banking Business Group government policy. They provide advice and recommendations on group-wide management, global governance, Takashi Nagaoka business strategy, and other management issues from an independent standpoint. Muneaki Tokunari Shigeru Yoshifuji Director Director Managing Executive Officer Deputy Chairman Senior Managing Executive Officer Group CAO and General Manager, Group CFO Internal Audit Division Mikio Ikegaya Director Eiichi Yoshikawa Hironori Kamezawa Deputy Chairman Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Global Business Group Group CIO & Group CDTO Kanetsugu Mike Director Shigeru Asai Sunao Yokokawa Deputy Chairman Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Global Markets Business Group Group Head, Trust Assets Business Group Nobuyuki Hirano Director Akira Hamamoto President & Group CEO Senior Managing Executive Officer Group CEO Group CCO & Group CLO Tadashi Kuroda Masamichi Yasuda Director Director Mr. John C. Dugan Dr. Victor K Fung Ambassador Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Partner, Covington Burling LLP Group Chairman, Fung Group, John V. Roos Group CSO & Group CHRO Group CRO Former Comptroller of the Currency, Hong Kong Former United States Ambassador United States Treasury Department Chairman of the Advisory Board, Asia to Japan Global Institute Former Honorary Chairman, the International Chamber of Commerce Executive Officers Managing Officers Executive Officers Hiroshi Naruse Randall Chafetz Hideaki Takase Koji Nishimoto Yasushi Itagaki Takenobu Inaba Takami Onodera Atsushi Miyata Yukihiro Yamamoto Masato Miyachi Makoto Kobayashi Ichiei Kuki Akihiko Nakamura Naomi Hayashi Masayuki Tanaka Iwao Nagashima Hiroki Kameda Yukinori Shimoguchi Makoto Hayashi Takanori Sazaki Denise DeMaio Akio Ninomiya Junichi Hanzawa Toru Fujita Lord (James) Associate Professor Dr. Gertrude Yukio Yahagi Hideki Kishimoto Hiroshi Takimoto Sassoon, Kt Simon S.C. Tay Tumpel-Gugerell Toshihiko Mori Masaki Miyazaki Junichi Narikawa Director, Jardine Matheson Holdings Chairman of the Singapore Institute Member of Supervisory Board, Limited of International Affairs Österreichische BundesbahnenTakayoshi Futae Hiroshi Takekawa Eiji Ihori Holding AG Former Commercial Secretary to the Former Member of Parliament, Naoki Hori Minoru Soutome Hisashi Kanamori Treasury, United Kingdom Singapore Former Member of Executive Board, European Central Bank Hidekazu Horikoshi Hiroyuki Ogata Kazuji Tanikawa Masahiro Kuwahara Yutaka Miyashita Johannes Worsoe Tetsuya Nakamura Shigeharu Sanada Michael Coyne Tetsuro Shinohara Jun Togawa Masaki Enomoto Satoshi Takizawa Takayuki Yasuda Jiro Omori Hitoshi Usui Shuichi Yokoyama Toshihiro Sasaki Tetsuya Yonehana Shinichi Arai Kevin Cronin Stephen Cummings Tai Nishida Yushi Ando Kazuo Koshi Koji Asada Yoshihisa Harata Ritsuo Ogura Donna Dellosso Tomohiro Kimura Kazuto Uchida Masashi Kanematsu Hiroshi Ikebe Yasushi Ishikawa Chiaki Kitagawa Naoki Isetani Mr. Toshio Iwamoto Mr. Toru Nagashima Mr. Akio Mimura Representative Director, Senior Advisor, Senior Advisor, Honorary Chairman, Kenichi Miyanaga Masatoshi Komoriya Masakazu Osawa President and Teijin Limited Nippon Steel & Mitsugu Enjoji Takehiko Nagumo Takuya Tanaka Chief Executive Officer, Sumitomo Metal Corporation NTT DATA Corporation Tsutomu Sambai Masashi Onodera 70 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 71 Important Issues Concerning Value Creation Global Advisory Board Outline of Annual Meeting On December 11 and 12, 2016, MUFG held an annual meeting of its Global Advisory Board in Tokyo. CEO Session At the beginning of the meeting, the Group CEO gave a presentation on progress under the current mediumterm business plan, the economic outlook, current Japanese government and Bank of Japan policies and the latest trends in FinTech. The presentation was followed by a session in which attendees gave advice on these matters from various angles. Current Status of and Future Outlook for EMEA Political, Economic and Business Global Financial Regulations The subsequent session focused on Europe, with Lord Environments in China and ASEAN The meeting also involved a session on global financial (James) Sassoon, Kt., and Dr. Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell At a session focused on China and ASEAN nations, regulations. External experts provided their insights sharing their insights on the repercussions of the Dr. Victor K. Fung and Associate Professor Simon S.C. on the subject, after which attendees engaged in United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Tay gave a briefing on the latest situation in these discussions on the impact of recent and future financial Union, the future of UK-EU relations, key elections in countries, with representatives from partner banks regulation reforms on financial institutions, the financial multiple EU member states and the situation in the Krungsri, VietinBank and Security Bank participating in market and actual economies. Middle East. vibrant discussions and the exchange of opinions. Breakout Sessions With the Brexit’s impact on businesses being intensively The attendees were apprised of local conditions in In addition to the foregoing, breakout sessions were discussed, attendees spoke about the challenges the China and elsewhere in Asia—subjects deserving of held under such themes as digital strategies, the global European banking industry was facing under the close attention when pursuing business development— infrastructure market, cyber security and the wealth negative interest rate environment, which was akin to and discussed the future outlook of economic policies management business, with officers from Group the situation in Japan, and strategies to tackle in each country. companies taking part in lively discussions. At these these challenges. sessions, Global Advisory Board members provided valuable advice and a number of insights that, in turn, Global Implications of the have been reflected in MUFG’s current strategies in New U.S. Administration respective areas. The EU-centered discussions were followed by a session on the United States. Ambassador John V. Roos and Mr. John C. Dugan gave presentations regarding the new U.S. administration’s diplomatic strategies and The First Round of MUFG Global Partnership Conference its stance on the finance industry. On the day following the annual Global Advisory Board Their knowledge of and insights on these matters meeting, top management leaders of MUFG and its investees MUFG Union Bank, N.A., Krungsri, VietinBank helped attendees better understand the implications of and Security Bank—which run commercial banking the new administration with regard to monetary operations and act as the Company’s partner banks— policies and business sectors. gathered for the first MUFG Global Partnership Conference (MGPC). After deliberations on the roles and functions of commercial banks amid a changing economic environment and how to ensure smooth collaboration between partner banks, attendees employed case studies to share best practices regarding each region’s banking businesses. 72 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 73 Foundations of Corporate Value Initiatives to Build Sustainable Relationships with Customers………………………………………………………… P.76 Human Resources Strategy………………………………………… P.78 Communicating with Stakeholders…………………………… P.82 Risk Management……………………………………………………… P.84 Compliance……………………………………………………………… P.88 Internal Audit……………………………………………………………… P.89 Responding to Global Financial Regulation………………… P.90 74 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 75 Foundations of Corporate Value Initiatives to Build Sustainable Relationships with Customers Customer Satisfaction Surveys Training Our Employees to Enhance Their Customer Maintaining a customer-centric approach, MUFG is We conduct periodic customer satisfaction (CS) surveys, sending out questionnaires by post and conducting Relation Skills Each employee strives to enhance their customer relation sincerely committed to engaging in fair and online surveys. We also strive to improve questionnaire items, combining overarching Group themes with each skills by, for example, attending joint training sessions and business site-based training sessions and viewing tutorial group company’s-specific themes. In these ways, we DVDs. Progress in their skills development is periodically transparent corporate activities. assess how customers evaluate our initiatives and confirmed through external monitoring. whether our services meet customers’ expectations. Moreover, the Company provides training sessions As we aim to live up to the trust and confidence customers have in our operations, we are striving to deliver For detailed results of CS surveys undertaken for individual and corporate centered on hands-on experience on how to treat the products and services that accurately meet their needs and, to this end, continuously improving our operations and customers, please also visit the following page of the Company’s website. http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/customer/okyakusamanokoe/ elderly and people with disabilities, ensuring that employee skills based on customer feedback. attendees learn how to meet such customers’ specific Results of CS Surveys for Individual Customers needs and are instilled with a spirit of hospitality. (November–December 2016) Concepts behind MUFG’s Customer Relations Reflecting Customer Feedback in Product and The surveys indicated that approximately 60% to more than 70% of Ensuring the consideration of customer’s perspectives Service Quality Improvements respondents were “satisfied” or “somewhat satisfied” with our overall services. and being fair and sincere in our undertakings are basics Enhancing Feedback Monitoring System Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neutral to our business operations. For MUFG, comments and requests from customers Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response Not sure (%) constitute valuable assets. Each Group company is Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 1.4 2.9 In line with the Corporate Vision, the Company has continually collecting, analyzing and sharing what 40.7 32.6 21.6 0.8 established the Principles of Ethics and Conduct, a set of customers have to say in order to improve their products standards each Group officer and employee should apply and services. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking 1.6 4.0 to their day-to-day business conduct and decisions. 19.5 41.3 32.4 1.2 Having stated at the top of these principles that we “place Moreover, MUFG monitors Group company’s initiatives our diverse customers at the center of all activities,” we while enhancing its system for handling customer feedback. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 5.4 are engaging in exhaustive initiatives to be the 23.9 41.5 17.8 11.4 embodiment of this tenet. In fiscal 2016, the number of such comments and requests received by the five principal Group companies Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS 3.5 Employee Education Aimed at Responding to totaled approximately 245,000. We made 463 20.4 45.0 29.6 1.5 Virtual experience of what it is like to be elderly or a person with a disability Customer Trust and Confidence improvements based on customer feedback monitoring. ACOM 2.5 Nurturing Employees’ Mindsets to Better Respond to Pursuing Customer-Centric Business * The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Customer Expectations and Encourage Their Morgan Stanley Securities, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM 20.3 50.7 25.3 1.2 Management Personal Growth MUFG periodically holds Corporate Social Responsibility MUFG Values Talks Quality Management That Takes into Account the Committee meetings and Customer Complaint MUFG holds workshops for younger employees from all Customer’s Perspective Monitoring Meetings to discuss how to improve our Group companies in which they explore such awarenessCustomers To enhance the quality of our products and services, we customer evaluations. At these meetings, the officers in raising themes as “What we should do to get customers closely examine the sufficiency of measures in place to charge of customer relations, Group Heads and to choose us” and “Ideals for MUFG and myself.” Such ensure that the customer’s perspective is reflected in all presidents of Group companies assess how customers workshops are aimed at fostering their understanding of Call aspects of business processes, which range from the evaluate our products and services overall while tackling Collect Branches Postcards Websites Questionnaires and identification with the Corporate Vision and the centers planning, development and provision of products and management issues they face in the course of pursuing Principles of Ethics and Conduct while encouraging them services to after-sales services. even higher evaluations. to take action based on takeaways from discussions. Analyze In 2017, MUFG established the Fiduciary Duty Promoting Analyze Group companies 1. Changes in the external environment customer 2. In-house policies Checklist for Putting the Customer First During fiscal 2016, MUFG held such events on 33 views Committee under its Executive Committee with the aim occasions. Approximately 6,000 Group employees have of systematically pushing forward with a customerIdentify issues 1. Accurately meets customer needs. been attending since the beginning of that. centric operational approach. Improve products & services; Improve reform business processes; conduct employees trainings; etc. 2. Pros and cons have been clearly laid out for the customer, and cons, if any, have been properly explained. Report Verify improvements 3. All efforts have been made to make the product easily Management, committees, etc. understandable, including the provision of advertising and information on comparisions with similar products. 4. All actions have been taken to prevent customer complaints from occurring, and measures for responding quickly to Report complaints have been prepared in the event of their occurrence. Monitor 5. Confirmation that our customers’ families, like our customers Corporate Social Customer Complaint themselves, have no anxieties about our products and services, MUFG Responsibility Committee Monitoring Meeting have been taken. MUFG Values Talk 76 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 77 Foundations of Corporate Value Human Resources Strategy Looking ahead, we will establish a robust human resource Stepping up Recruiting Activities on a Global Basis Directing Our Human Resources to development structure through an organic combination of career paths, employee training and personal development. Facing growing customer needs for more sophisticated services in Japan and overseas, we are acutely aware of Value Creation Initiatives By doing so, we will ensure that our organizational values, namely, “Integrity and Responsibility,” “Professionalism and the importance of making MUFG an employer of choice among potential recruits in countries abroad. With this in Teamwork” and “Challenge Ourselves to Grow,” are shared mind, MUFG opened an official account with LinkedIn, Operating in regions around the world, MUFG’s robust workforce consists of approximately 150,000 people and maintained at each workplace across the Group while the world’s largest social network for professionals. boasting diverse skills and experience. MUFG aims to ensure that all its human resources stay highly motivated and stepping up the development of future human resources Disseminating corporate information via this account, we are able to concentrate on duties that lead to the creation of greater value. To that end, the Group is striving to who will eventually spearhead the creation of new value. will establish a corporate image as an excellent company with a decent workplace environment while broadening develop a rewarding work environment that enables every employee to live up to their potential as they resolve Responding to Globalization our access to promising human resources around customer’s issues and contribute to the betterment of society. MUFG has more than 1,200 business bases in more than the globe. 50 countries and regions around the world, with around 40% of its workforce being assigned to locations overseas Optimal Staffing on a Global Basis Human Resources Strategy to colleague performance, rewards will be reflective of as of March 31, 2017. Taking these situations into account, MUFG offers such in-house job posting schemes as the The MUFG Human Resources Principles provide the basis the overall stability of the company and the economy. MUFG is stepping up the development of a globally unified Global Job Posting Framework to its locally hired staff which the Group has built a human resources • Assess the capabilities and career path of each HR management structure for the Group. with the aim of ensuring optimal staffing on a global basis management platform that aligns with its Corporate Vision. colleague to place the right person in the right job, to and fostering a sense of unity among Group employees maximize colleague and MUFG success. Nurturing Globally Capable Management Candidates through human resource exchange. Utilizing these Shared Values • Provide ongoing learning and development MUFG recognizes that securing and nurturing personnel schemes, MUFG provides employees who were hired The MUFG Human Resources Principles will be opportunities to help each colleague enhance his/her with international business management know-how as well overseas with opportunities to work at locations other implemented globally across MUFG in alignment with our knowledge, skills and experience. as highly specialized experts in this field is key to the than those where they joined, such as in Japan. shared organizational VALUES of “Integrity and success of its global business strategy. To that end, the Responsibility,” “Professionalism and Teamwork” and Human Resource Development MUFG Talent Council is in place to discuss the criteria for “Challenge Ourselves to Grow.” MUFG is striving to nurture human resources capable of selecting candidates for more than 200 key managerial supporting the long-term development of society at home positions to be filled on a global basis, develop HR Mission and abroad. management succession plans and assess the sufficiency The MUFG Human Resources Principles support the of human resources in light of the execution of achievement of the following HR mission: Along with encouraging each employee to achieve a business strategies. • Create a corporate culture that provides colleagues with steeper “growth curve” and create greater value through opportunities for career growth, challenging them to the execution of duties, we offer a variety of career paths Enhancing Employee Training Aimed at Nurturing perform well in a professional environment, where the and provide a range of training programs tailored to Globally Capable Human Resources highest standards of integrity are expected. different job categories and positions. Furthermore, we MUFG is providing locally hired staff with job-level based • Appointing the right person to the right job, in the right support highly motivated individuals seeking to develop training programs aimed at nurturing professionals in place to allow each colleague to maximize his/her themselves by providing various opportunities to pursue finance. Among these programs is “Global Leaders’ Forum” career potential. personal development. co-hosted by the International Institute for Management • Develop talent capable of contributing to the long-term Development based in Switzerland. At this forum, and sustainable growth of our global society. Having made the provision of career paths essential, divisional head-level employees from each Group MUFG is focusing on equipping employees with company gather and undergo special training aimed at HR Vision professional skills and specialist knowledge in the field of equipping them with the ability to promote the Corporate Be the industry leader in HR management to help MUFG finance while nurturing manager candidates through a Vision and management strategies while enhancing their realize its Corporate Vision: Be the world's most trusted broad range of managerial assignments that transcend leadership and communication skills in multi-cultural financial group. their fields of specialty. We also provide the CFA job settings. rotation program, which involves the transfer of staff HR Philosophy between the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi Leverage the following HR philosophies to create UFJ Securities Holdings and its subsidiaries as part of our consistent HR management practices across all MUFG initiatives to help Group employees acquire robust job entities: experience in areas beyond conventional business Promoting Workforce Diversity • Globally attract and recruit diverse talent that share and category and sector boundaries. live OUR VALUES as members of MUFG. Our Mediumand Be the world’s most trusted financial group • Evaluate performance fairly and objectively, considering In March 2015, we established the MUFG Global Learning Long-Term Vision 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our customers 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our customers 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence not only the goals achieved, but also the competencies Center as a core human resource training facility for the demonstrated to get the job done. Recognize the Group. The establishment of a dedicated facility attests to Our Values Integrity and Responsibility Professionalism and Teamwork Challenge Ourselves to Grow importance of factors, such as customer-centric focus, MUFG’s strong commitment with regard to human global mindset, and teamwork, to balancing short-term resource development. A range of people, from top An organization that welcomes people with diverse backgrounds, encourages them to respect and results with sustained long-term performance. management leaders to new recruits, are constantly Our Vision for inspire each other and allows them to freely pursue personal growth and career success • Reward colleagues competitively and appropriately in present at this facility for the purpose of passing down Initiatives to Promote alignment with their contributions to MUFG's growth skills and knowledge to younger employees while inspiring Diversity Enlighten, Encourage, Empower. and success in effect, pay for performance. In addition each other to create value. Work together as a Group to exceed customer expectations 78 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 79 Foundations of Corporate Value Human Resources Strategy Facilitating a Diversity-Oriented Corporate Each Company’s Targets for the Number of Female Promoting Work Style Reforms Helping Strike a Balance between Work and Culture Workers in Managerial Positions and Results Work-Life Balance Nursing Care MUFG has established the Principles of Ethics and March 2016 March 2017 Targets*1 MUFG believes that higher employee satisfaction is With the rapid aging of Japan’s society, nursing care is an Conduct and compliance manuals that clarify its Executive Officer 0 0* 2 At least 1 reflected in work performance and leads to increased issue that any employee might one day confront. To help commitment to nondiscrimination no matter the race, General Manager 4.5% 5.5% At least 6% customer satisfaction. MUFG also believes that an employees strike a balance between work and nursing nationality, belief, religion, gender, sexual orientation, Bank of TokyoChief/Senior employee’s job fulfillment is reflected in society and at care, MUFG holds seminars aimed at raising their Mitsubishi UFJ 14.2% 16.6% At least 14% gender identity or other grounds and to abstaining from Manager home, fostering better communities. Therefore, MUFG is awareness of the importance of being ready to prepare human rights violations. Guided by this commitment, Managerial Staﬀ 18.1% 20.1% At least 22% striving to help employees strike a good work-life balance for this issue even before it emerges and imparting basic MUFG recognizes a diversity-oriented corporate culture Mitsubishi UFJ Line Manager 6.1% 7.0% At least 8% in order to create an even more rewarding knowledge on nursing care. By doing so, we help as fundamental to realizing its mediumto long-term Trust and Banking workplace environment. employees smoothly engage in nursing care Corporation Managerial Staﬀ 20.5% 21.5% At least 22% vision of becoming the world’s most trusted financial whenever necessary. Section Manager group. Specifically, MUFG believes that the Company Mitsubishi UFJ Class or Above 71 77 At least 120 Helping Strike a Balance between Work and Morgan Stanley must create an organization that welcomes people with Securities Assistant Manager Child Rearing Work Style Reforms 10.9% 11.9% At least 13% diverse values, backgrounds and perceptions of work and Class or Above Each MUFG Group company is working to help Each MUFG Group company promotes Work Style that encourages them to respect and inspire each other *1 Target figures for the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and employees strike a balance between work and child Reforms. Specifically, we employ feedback from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities are set to be achieved by March 31, 2018, 2019 while allowing them to freely pursue personal growth and and 2021, respectively. rearing by, for example, providing reinstatement support employees gleaned in town hall and working group career success. *2 In May 2017, one female executive officer was appointed (Ms. Chiaki Kitagawa who programs, such as training and counseling sessions for meetings to promote structural reforms aimed at revising concurrently serves as General Manager for a retail branch management division) employees prior to taking maternity or childcare leave procedures and working practices that had to that point To support the creation of such a culture on a Groupwide networks with fellow female employees, implementing and for employees who are about to be or have been been resistant to change. We are also striving to realize basis, MUFG issues the annual Diversity Report, featuring career development training and mentoring support for reinstated to the workforce. Each Group company also more flexible working styles, including earlier shifts, messages from top management and diversity initiatives women, and adopting personnel systems allowing provides subsidies for childcare and babysitter expenses flextime and staggered working times, and allowing and best practices undertaken by Group companies. women to convert job categories and helping those who while enhancing its personnel systems, such as a system eligible employees to work from home. By doing so, we Moreover, since 2010 staff charged with diversity left the workforce to get reinstated. to allow eligible employees to shorten working hours.As hope to improve productivity while simultaneously promotion have hosted periodic Global Inclusion & part of these efforts, MUFG launched a counseling service preventing excessive overtime. Diversity Forums to share information on their latest We also provide managers with dedicated training in February 2017 to assist employees searching for accomplishments and engage in discussions about programs to impart methods regarding the oversight of childcare facilities, and opened a company-sponsored Furthermore, we are working to equip our managers future collaboration. diverse human resources, including working mothers, childcare facility in April. with the flexibility to take into consideration and aiming at raising employees’ awareness of the career accommodate the private circumstances of individual Assisting Women with Career Development development assistance that those in managerial staff members under their supervision and thereby One of our most urgent diversity issues is promoting positions can provide. maximize the potential and motivation of their staff. We women’s career development. MUFG has set the goal of believe that increasing the number of such flexible raising the ratio of female managers within the Group in managers is a key part of enhancing organizational Japan to 20%* by the end of March 2018. Furthermore, productivity. Guided by this belief, the Bank of Tokyoeach Group company has set its own numerical target for Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and the active promotion of its female workers. Thanks to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities have became these efforts, the ratio of female managers at MUFG participants in the “IkuBoss Corporate Alliance,” a improved to 19.2% as of April 2017. networking initiative sponsored by Fathering Japan, an NPO aimed at encouraging men to play a greater role in To help women develop their potential and find success childrearing. Participation in the alliance with like-minded in their careers, each Group company is implementing a Promoting Male Participation in Child Rearing domestic corporations, which are proactively striving to variety of supportive initiatives, for example, providing In general, few men choose to take childcare leave in raise managers’ awareness and equip them with ideal opportunities to interact with executives and build Japan. Nevertheless, each MUFG Group company offers traits as future business leaders, better positions the Employment for People with Disabilities male workers short-term paid childcare leave to Company to create an open and inclusive working Ratio of female managers Utilizing its special subsidiary, MUFG is proactively hiring encourage them to participate in child rearing. We also environment that allows diverse people to freely pursue in the entire managerial positions* Mar. 31, 2018 people with disabilities. At each MUFG Group company, distribute tips on child rearing as well as benefits so that professional success. (%) 20.0% (planned) 20.0 people with disabilities are actively working in various men can play significant roles in the lives of children in 19.2% offices. As for staffing these people, we work closely with their care. Thanks to these efforts, the number of male them in order to match their duties to the capabilities and employees who took short-term paid childcare leave 18.0 aptitudes of each according to their considerably grew from 256 in fiscal 2015 to 613* in individual circumstances. fiscal 2016. 16.0 * Total of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and Retio of Employment for people with disabilities Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 14.0 (domestic Group companies) 12.3% Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ Trust and Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ Banking Corporation Morgan Stanley Securities 12.0 Apr. Apr. Apr. Apr. Apr. Apr. Mar. Ratio of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 employees 2.20% 2.22% 2.28% with disabilities * Total of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities * As of April 1, 2017 (statutory employment rates: 2.0%) 80 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 81 Foundations of Corporate Value Communicating with Stakeholders Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Large meetings for individual investors Enhancing Our Corporate Value through Committed General Meeting of Shareholders The 12th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was Held on seven occasions in fiscal 2016; approximately 1,360 attendees Engagement with Stakeholders held on June 29, 2017. The number of attendees: 2,150 Large meetings for institutional investors Held on 12 occasions in fiscal 2016 MUFG believes that winning the support of its various stakeholders is essential to securing sustainable growth in its In addition to a presentation on the past fiscal year business activities and thus its corporate value. In line with this belief, we engage with stakeholders via a variety of and a report on the Company’s key business strategies One on One meetings with institutional investors channels and take heed of their expectations and requests to make improvements in our business management. and capital policies, the meeting entailed lively Q&A Held on 557 occasions in fiscal 2016 sessions, with MUFG executive officers and Group CEO (Of those, 387 meetings with overseas investors) providing answers to questions from 12 shareholders. The MUFG’s Channels for Communication with Stakeholders meeting provided an excellent opportunity to interact with shareholders and enhance mutual understanding. Shareholders and investors The environment • General Meeting of • Participation in Shareholders various initiatives • Presentation meetings P.45-51 for investors • Seminars and individual meetings Customers Communities • Sales personnel and call • Participation in centers MUFG community activities in • Dedicated contacts for collaboration with NPOs customer feedback and • Employees volunteer inquiries activities • Questionnaires (customer satisfaction surveys) P.52-57 The 12th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Large meeting for individual investors P.76-77 Employees Dialogue with Employees • Town hall meetings Business partners The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust • Training sessions and workshops • Purchasing activities and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings and its • Employee satisfaction • Business alliance and collaboration subsidiaries as well as Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS hold town surveys hall meetings and round-table conferences aimed at P.78-81 enhancing mutual understanding between top management and employees. In addition, MUFG is periodically conducting employee Engagement with Communities, Local Societies satisfaction surveys to reflect voices of employees in its and the Environment business management. MUFG employees proactively participate in volunteer activities and local events as members of the Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities communities they serve. Such efforts are intended to enhance interaction with other community members and nurture ties with them. Meanwhile, MUFG engages with NGOs and NPOs that work to resolve issues society is confronting, incorporating the insights and advice such bodies provide into its own CSR activities. Moreover, MUFG takes part in the Global Compact Network Japan’s subcommittees and other similar initiatives to engage in dialogue with other participants, study their best practices and remain informed of the latest developments related to social issues. In these ways, the Company is striving to help resolve such issues. Park cleaning up and renovation work with the Student Conservation Association Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS 82 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 83 Foundations of Corporate Value Risk Management Basic Policy Furthermore, the Risk Appetite Framework provides Risk Appetite Framework Management Process Framework, risk evaluation and verification procedures Since the 2008 financial crisis, financial institutions have guidelines for effective risk management that backs our In the formulation and execution of its business strategy (capital allocation system, stress tests, Top Risk been compelled to adopt more comprehensive and business strategy and financial plan while supporting and financial plan, MUFG will set the appropriate level of management) will be applied at every stage of the sophisticated risk management systems. This risk efforts to avoid unexpected losses and enhance riskrisk appetite and proceed to monitor and analyze risk management planning process. management function has also grown in importance for return management. volume. MUFG as a global bank with subsidiaries spanning the Furthermore, even after the plan is formulated, we are commercial, trust and investment banking sectors. Risk Appetite Framework The process to set and manage risk appetite is set out ready to take immediate actions in emergency situations The Risk Appetite Framework aims to clarify MUFG’s risk below. In order to effectively implement the Risk Appetite through monitoring of the set risk appetite. MUFG aims to strengthen its Group risk management appetite (types and amount of risks that it is willing to through the diffusion of a risk culture that strengthens the accept) as it works to achieve its business strategy and structure of Group business management as well as financial plan. The framework is designed to increase integrated risk management. Our goal is effective risk management transparency and generate more profit governance which is consistent across regions, opportunities in an environment where risk is Risk Appetite Setting and Management Process subsidiaries and the holding company. properly controlled. Before formulating the overall business plan, assess pressure points for business strategy 1. Confirming assumptions for and financial and capital operations based on the internal and external environment. business plan formulation • Future balance sheet simulation based on macroeconomic scenarios Risk Management System Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) Risk Committee Board of Directors In pursuing management’s vision, formulate a business plan proposal based on business 2. Formulate business plan strategy, financial plan and risk appetite. proposal Corporate Risk Management Management Planning • Clarify risks to be accepted and risks to be avoided on the basis of Risk Culture U.S. Risk Committee Committee Executive Committee Committee (including ALM) (including crisis management) Revise strategy based on results Credit & Investment Corporate Risk Management Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, Management Committee Div. (coordinates risk Operational Risk, management) Operations Risk, Model Risk The risk management divisions will mainly assess the appropriate level of risk appetite. The strategy proposal will be amended if the stress tests indicate that the maximum level 3. Risk appetite assessment and Credit Committee verification of acceptable risk will be exceeded. Credit Policy & Planning Div. Credit Risk • Evaluation of strategy profitability and soundness based on stress tests Global Compliance Div., Operations & Systems Information Asset Risk Planning Div. Corporate Administation Div. Tangible Asset Risk The Executive Committee and Board of Directors discuss and subsequently make decisions based on an integrated view of business strategy, the financial plan and risk appetite. Human Resources Div. Personnel Risk 4. Business plan decision • On the basis of the capital allocation system, capital is allocated to subsidiaries and operational Global Compliance Div. divisions in accordance with the level of risk Legal Risk Legal Div. Corporate Communcations Div. Reputation Risk The risk management divisions of the holding company and subsidiaries monitor risk volume in relation to allocated capital and risk appetite. 5. Risk monitoring • Forward-looking valuation of internal and external environment based on Top Risk management Risk Appetite Framework • Situation grasp of the risk based on predictive control • Regular monitoring of risk appetite compliance Management Plan Financial Plan Risk Appetite Cases where risk volume exceeds upper limit • Net operating profit Organic Correlation • Capital allocation plan and RWA plan The risk appetite plan will be revised if monitoring reveals that risk appetite and actual • Net income Capital strategy and distribution based on levels of risk diverge, or if environmental factors increase the level of risk. • ROE risk • RORA 6. Revision of risk appetite Business Strategy • Liquidity risk • Stress tests may be conducted again in order to reset risk appetite. • Expenses ratio • Discussion between operational divisions and corporate risk management division when exceed Risk appetite for difficult-to-quantify risk • Common equity Tier 1 Ratio • Group business strategy the risk appetite 84 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 85 Foundations of Corporate Value Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Stress tests analyze both the internal and external Enhancing the Effectiveness of Risk Management Risk Appetite Statement MUFG makes every effort to recognize the risks that environment, and use three-year-period preventative Effective risk management and a strong Risk Appetite The Risk Appetite Statement elucidates the Risk Appetite emerge in the course of business execution, assessing scenarios. Framework depend on a Risk Culture which enables Framework which embodies MUFG’s attempts to achieve them according to uniform criteria. Enterprise risk meaningful discussion and clear communication an integrated group strategy along with effective risk management is then conducted while maintaining • Liquidity stress test throughout the Group. management. The Risk Appetite Statement contains an business stability and striving to maximize shareholder In liquidity stress tests, the impact of MUFG-specific or overview of the Risk Appetite Framework (basic policy value. Enterprise risk management is a dynamic overall market stress on the balance sheet is assessed so Developing and Diffusing a Risk Culture and management process) as well as specific business approach, promoting stable profits commensurate with as to implement MUFG’s business strategy and financial MUFG defines a Risk Culture as the basic approach which strategies, financial plans and risk appetite details. risk as well as the appropriate allocation of resources. plan. Various options are examined to respond to shortspecifies how to take risks and risk management for term fund outflows or long-term structural changes in the MUFG’s organizational and individual behaviors. While A summary of the Risk Appetite Statement is distributed Enterprise risk management is composed of three main balance sheet with a view to ensuring there is no maintaining consistency with Principles of Ethics and throughout the Group in an effort to spread the basic strands: the capital allocation system, stress tests and funding shortage. Conduct in risk management, it is stated in the risk philosophy behind the Risk Appetite Framework. Top Risk management. appetite statement. A Risk Culture is established for credit Top Risk Management business, market business and overall business and then Through the penetration of risk culture and risk appetite Capital Allocation System The potential losses that emerge from scenario analysis formulated in the Risk Appetite Statement. In order to framework, we will take actions in anticipation of In this framework, latent losses associated with risk are are classified as risks and then their relative importance is share this Risk Culture throughout the Company, environmental changes both inside and outside of the converted to a required capital amount, and capital is weighed according to degree of impact and probability management issues regular strategic messages and Group, while the uncertain environment continues. then allocated across group companies and between (internal and external factors). The risks that need to be holds regular meetings globally. different risk categories according to business strategy watched most closely over the next year are classified as and the profit plan. The framework is intended to allow Top Risks and a risk map is created to allow preventive the appropriate distribution of capital throughout the risk management. MUFG’s Risk Culture Group as MUFG monitors to preserve financial Sincerity soundness, evaluate capital adequacy versus risk, and By identifying Top Risks, MUFG and its affiliates can Taking a consistently customer-centric approach, we are judge impact on overall capital strategy. discuss countermeasures to mitigate the potential impact committed to engaging in fair and transparent corporate and then respond dynamically when they actually activities, properly handling assets customers entrust to us • Stress Tests for capital adequacy assessment emerge. As Top Risks are discussed Groupwide, including and protecting customers’ interests from undue damage. In formulating its business strategy, MUFG regularly management, consistent risk recognition is maintained assesses its internal capital adequacy through stress tests widely throughout the Group and effective solutions Quality based on two perspectives: regulatory capital, based on implemented. As an example, in the Top Risk report With the aim of retaining the lasting trust of customers, capital adequacy regulations (Basel III), and its own submitted to our Board of Directors via the Corporate we practice thoroughgoing quality management and economic capital, based on internal risk assessment. Risk Management Committee in March 2017, “Decline in improvement measures across all aspects of our business profitability of Net Interest Income (NII)” was cited as a processes, from planning and development to the provision major Top Risk. of products and services. Through these efforts, we satisfy diverse customer needs and deliver high quality services that exceed expectations. Responsibility Major Top Risks In addition to complying with all laws, regulations and rules Risk incidents Risk scenarios* enforced in Japan and countries abroad, we choose always to take the higher moral ground, thereby contributing to the A decline in profitability maintenance of stable and trustworthy financial systems and (including a decline in • Decline in profitability of net interest income due to negative interest rate policy. the sound development of society. profitability of Net interest • Decline in overall profitability due to constraints on balance sheet size caused by regulatory factors. income) Respect • Depletion of foreign currency liquidity or significant increase in its cost due to deterioration of Every MUFG Group employees remains a committed Foreign currency liquidity risk market conditions. professional with a strong sense of personal responsibility and the deepest respect for their colleagues. • Globally, concerns about concentration risk may be heightened against the backdrop of low interest rates globally, the influx of money due to quantitative easing, and the tendency of financial institutions to chase An increase in credit costs yields. This may push up inter-risk correlation and sensitivity in the credit portfolio to an unprecedented degree, causing an increase in credit costs. Ensure Consistency with Principles of Ethics and Conduct • Customer information leakage and reputational damage due to cyber-attack. IT risk • Payment of compensation costs and reputational damage due to system failure. Risk associated with money • Regulatory issues such as the infringement of anti-money laundering regulations or applicable regulations Responsibility Ethical and laundering and economic related to economic sanctions could lead to legal actions such as business suspension or civil fines, and Customer as a Corporate Dynamic sanctions reputational damage. Focus Citizen Workplace * Note: The aforementioned risk scenarios are examples of scenarios reported to MUFG’s Board of Directors after being discussed at a Risk Committee meeting held in March 2017. These scenarios include types of incidents that are not necessarily specific to MUFG and can happen to business corporations in general. 86 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 87 Foundations of Corporate Value Foundations of Corporate Value Compliance Internal Audit Basic Policy Financial Group, and at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Role of Internal Audit The internal audit divisions within the major subsidiaries We have clarified our Group mission, long-term vision Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, and Mitsubishi UFJ Internal audit functions within MUFG seek to verify the conduct audits of the respective head office and branch and shared values in the Corporate Vision and expressed Securities Holdings (referred to as the three companies adequacy and effectiveness of internal control systems operations of these companies. In addition, each of these our commitment to meeting the expectations of below). Each compliance management division from a standpoint independent of the operating functions. internal audit divisions undertakes direct audits of their customers and society as a whole. Furthermore, we have formulates compliance programs and organizes training This includes monitoring the status of risk management and respective subsidiaries, and monitors and oversees the established the Principles of Ethics and Conduct as the courses to promote compliance, and regularly reports to compliance systems, which are critical to the maintenance separate internal audit functions established within them. This guidelines for how the Group’s directors and employees each company’s Board of Directors and Executive of sound and appropriate business operations. Internal audit helps to evaluate and verify the adequacy and effectiveness of act to realize the Corporate Vision. This expresses our Committee on the status of compliance activities. results are reported to senior management. An additional internal controls within MUFG on a consolidated basis. commitment to complying with laws and regulations role of internal audit is to make suggestions to help improve globally, to acting with honesty and integrity, and to The holding company has the Group Compliance or rectify any issues or specific problems that are identified. Implementing Effective and Efficient Internal Audit behaving in a manner that supports and strengthens the Committee while the three companies have Compliance To ensure that internal audit processes use available resources trust and confidence of society. Committees which deliberate important matters related Group Internal Audit Framework with optimal effectiveness and efficiency, the internal audit to compliance. Additionally, the holding company has the The holding company has instituted MUFG’s internal audit divisions implement risk-focused internal audits in which the In addition, as we expand our business globally, we are Group Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Committee policy to define the policy, function, and organizational nature and magnitude of the associated risks are considered in committed to keeping abreast with developments in the composed of the CCO of the holding company and position of internal audits. Separate internal audit divisions determining audit priorities and the frequency and depth of laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we CCOs of the three companies. This committee have been created within the holding company and certain internal audit activities. The internal audit divisions ensure that operate, including those targeting money laundering and deliberates important matters related to compliance and subsidiaries. Through close cooperation and collaboration audit personnel attend key meetings, collect important internal bribery, as well as competition laws, while paying compliance-related issues for which the Group should among the internal audit divisions of the holding company control documents and access databases to facilitate efficient attention to trends in financial crimes. share a common understanding. and these subsidiaries, these internal audit divisions provide off-site monitoring. coverage for the Group and also support the board of Compliance System directors of the holding company in monitoring and Reports to the Audit Committee Compliance management divisions have been overseeing all MUFG operations. The holding company has an audit committee within its board established at the holding company Mitsubishi UFJ of directors as required by the Companies Act of Japan, and In addition to having primary responsibility for initiating and each of the major subsidiaries has an Audit & Supervisory preparing plans and proposals related to internal audits of Committee or a voluntarily established audit committee. the Group, the internal audit division at the holding company monitors and, as necessary, guides, advises, and Within each of the holding company and the major Compliance System administers the internal audit divisions of subsidiaries and subsidiaries, the internal audit division reports to the committee Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) affiliated companies. on important matters including the results of the internal audits and basic policies for planning internal audits. Board of Directors Audit Committee Internal Audit Framework Executive Committee Group Compliance Committee Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) Group CCO Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee (Chairman: Outside Director) Reporting Instructing Excective Committee Compliance Division (Coordinates compliance issues) Internal Audit Division MUFG, Each Division Auditing Consultation and report Guidance, advice and instruction Consulting and report Guidance, advice and management Group Companies Group Companies Enhancing the Effectiveness of Internal Audits Practicing MUFG’s Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct As a G-SIB, MUFG is obligated to strictly verify the cyber security as it is well aware of the significance of risk effectiveness of all its internal control systems. Accordingly, deriving from shortfalls in this field. To develop human In addition to strictly abiding by laws and regulations, every participants are asked to reflect on their experience and a variety of initiatives are being carried out to enhance the resources charged with auditing, we encourage employees financial institution has a duty to remain acutely aware of assess whether their decisions and actions reflect the effectiveness of internal audits. For example, MUFG has to acquire such international certification as Certified and sincerely comport itself in line with the expectations of Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct. At initiated data analysis employing CAAT* as part of initiatives Internal Auditor (CIA), Certified Information Systems Auditor customers and society. With this in mind, MUFG periodically the same time, they hear their peers’ views on the subject that proactively introduce new auditing methodologies that (CISA) and Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist holds training sessions aimed at developing corporate and are given time to reflect on what they learn. The enable the Company to detect flaws not otherwise (CAMS), with the aim of enhancing the specialist skills of culture that does not tolerate injustice and to instill in sessions often involve lively discussions that afford valuable identifiable through conventional auditing methods. MUFG members of these divisions and accumulating employees a customer-first attitude focused on delivering insights into what is it like to apply compliance principles in also adopted cutting-edge audit standards in the area of relevant expertise. value that satisfies customers. In these sessions, the course of day-to-day operations. * Computerized Accounting and Auditing Techniques 88 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 89 Foundations of Corporate Value Responding to Global Financial Regulation G-SIBs Facing Demand for Ever More Key Issues Going Forward Since the global financial crisis of 2008, financial institutions have been required to hold to stricter standards of Stringent Compliance MUFG is paying close attention to developments related financial soundness and management discipline. New regulations have been introduced and existing regulations, 1. Surcharge on required capital ratio to the following three issues involving current global including capital adequacy ratios, have been tightened in the quest to establish a more stable financial system. At G-SIBs (Global Systemically Important Banks) are banks financial regulations. the same time, new challenges and issues have been thrown up in the process. In this section we look at the trend whose failure would have a major impact on the global for global financial regulation and our response. financial system according to the Financial Stability Board • International discussions pertaining to risk-weighted asset whose membership derives from financial supervisory measurement methodologies and the current regulatory authorities around the world. Basel III stipulates a framework governing the leverage ratio have yet to yield surcharge on the required capital ratio of G-SIBs (from an agreement, despite initial projections suggesting that a 1.0% to 3.5%) to be phased in from 2016. This would conclusion would be reached by the end of 2016. The Trend in Global Financial Regulation represent a surcharge of 1.5% for MUFG up to 2019 under earlier finalization of these revisions is awaited. the current bucket allocation. Fragility of financial system spurred stronger global regulation 2007 • Financial authorities worldwide were focused on As subprime loans to low-income households in the U.S. went bad, formulating new regulations for some time following the • U.S. housing bubble bursts Lehman Brothers (which held a large number of subprime-related Bucket 5 Barclays (U.K.) latest financial crisis but have now shifted that focus to financial products) filed for bankruptcy. This caused a sharp (3.5% capital monitoring the effectiveness of said regulations since surcharge) Credit Suisse contraction of credit in the global financial markets and exposed (Switzerland) enactment. In fact, the Financial Stability Board and 2008 the fragility of the financial system. other relevant organizations are undertaking Citigroup (U.S.) Goldman Sachs (U.S.) • Lehman Brothers collapse Bucket 4 Bucket 2 assessments of the impact of new regulations. If these (2.5% capital (1.5% capital surcharge) JP Morgan Chase surcharge) Industrial and Commercial assessments reveal unexpected consequences or (U.S.) Bank of China (China) shortfalls vis-à-vis the regulations’ intended effects, New regulations to ensure the soundness of banks engaging in Bank of America MUFG (Japan) there will be a need for readjusting the content of the 2010 (U.S.) international business regulations in question. • European sovereign debt crisis BNP Paribas (France) Wells Fargo (U.S.) • Announcement of Basel III In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (composed of Bucket 3 (2.0% capital • Authorities in certain regions have been found to be representatives from the main bank supervisory agencies around surcharge) Deutsche Bank the world) introduced Basel III, designed to ensure the continued making country-specific modifications to internationally (Germany) Bucket 1 soundness of major banks engaging in international business. It has (1.0% capital 18 Banks agreed standards, thus creating local versions that are surcharge) 2013 three main elements. HSBC (U.K.) more lenient or stringent than global regulations. In • Start of application of capital adequacy addition, some global regulations have yet to be enacted ratio requirements Capital ratio requirements in certain countries despite international agreements to (to be phased in up to 2019) 2. Requirement to secure greater Total Loss Absorbing that effect. MUFG believes that such fragmentation of Banks must keep their capital adequacy ratios above a certain level in relation to risk-based exposure (risk-weighted assets). Capacity (TLAC) financial regulations must be avoided in order to maintain In addition to Basel III capital requirements, the upcoming a level playing field among financial institutions. 2015 Leverage ratio regulations, which will be enforced in 2019, will oblige Banks must keep their capital adequacy ratios above a certain level in relation to • Start of application of Liquidity Coverage G-SIBs to acquire additional capital and liabilities that 1. Review of risk-weighted asset measurement methodologies non-risk-based exposure (total assets shown on financial statements and off -balanceRatio (LCR) sheet assets). meet certain subordinated conditions (TLAC-eligible Capital ratio capital / risk-weighted assets liabilities). These regulations are intended to ensure Review of measurement methodologies for each risk Liquidity requirements orderly resolution without injecting public funds when 2018 This is composed of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable Funding Review of capital floor (Internationally agreed-upon deadline) G-SIBs fail. Ratio (NSFR). • Start of application of leverage ratio LCR: Banks must keep liquid assets that can be converted easily and immediately into cash above a certain level in order to cover any fund outflows. 2. Review of regulatory framework for leverage ratio requirements From 2019 From 2022 • Start of application of Net Stable NSFR: Banks must maintain stable funding sources (which can effectively respond to onward onward capital / exposure Funding Ratio (NSFR) stress for one year) above a certain level. Leverage ratio (total assets shown on the balance TLAC risk-weighted asset 16% 18% sheet and off -balancesheet assets). minimum Review of measurement methodologies for denominator (exposure) TLAC leverage ratio exposure 6% 6.75% minimum Surcharge on the required leverage ratio of G-SIBs Results Required level Required level MUFG’s Response March 31, 2017 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2019 MUFG has already fulfillment of levels required by the Common Equity Tier 1 11.76% 6.5% 8.5% Capital Ratio end of March 2019 As the table at right shows, MUFG is in compliance with Tier 1 Capital Ratio 13.36% 8.0% 10.0% MUFG’s Stance on Global Financial Regulations the levels required by end-March 2017 and it has already Total Capital Ratio 15.85% 10.0% 12.0% In order to avoid a reprise of the financial crisis, reform and regulations, as well as the coherence between different sets reached the levels required by end-March 2019. Liquidity Coverage strengthened regulations are required both for individual of regulations, all in the context of the global regulatory 137.9% 80.0% 100.0% Ratio institutions and the system as a whole. On the other hand, framework. MUFG believes the fundamental mission of a In addition, calculation methodologies for capital and Results Required level* we must ensure that the new regulations do not bring financial institution is to support economic growth. To March 31, 2017 From March 2018 onward uncertainty to both financial markets and the real economy realize that goal, we engage in proactive advocacy for the leverage ratios are at the center of global discussion. (See or hamper healthy development and innovation. It is development of a global regulatory framework based on also the next page for details.) Leverage Ratio 4.81% 3.0% therefore necessary to carefully consider the impact of new international cooperation and public/private partnerships. 90 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 91 Financial Data / Corporate Data Financial Data / Corporate Data Five-Year Major Financial Data (FY 2012-FY 2016) Financial Review for Fiscal 2016 (Billions of Yen) Financial and Economic Environment Growth Rate of Real GDP (Annual Rate, Quarter on Quarter) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 An overview of the financial and economic environment （%） Currency exchange rate (USD/JPY) (yen) 94.05 102.92 120.17 112.68 112.19 for fiscal year 2016 shows the global economy generally 10 maintained a moderate recovery, particularly in Statement of income data: developed countries. This was despite deep uncertainties 5 Gross profits before credit costs for trust accounts 3,634.2 3,753.4 4,229.0 4,143.2 4,011.8 arising from China’s structural adjustment, as well as Net interest income 1,816.8 1,878.6 2,181.6 2,113.5 2,024.4 fluctuations in international financial markets due to key 0 Trust fees excluding credit costs 95.1 108.4 111.4 117.0 122.0 events such as the UK’s vote to leave the EU and the Net fees and commissions 1,042.2 1,160.3 1,308.6 1,320.5 1,328.4 Net trading profits 288.2 362.0 352.9 306.3 290.0 advent of the new US administration. The US economy -5 Net other business profits 391.7 244.0 274.3 285.6 246.7 continued its self-sustained recovery, driven mainly by Net gains (losses) on debt securities 336.7 142.8 115.1 132.9 56.8 domestic demand, which was supported by improved -10 employment conditions. However, the recovery in (CY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 General and administrative expenses 2,095.0 2,289.3 2,584.1 2,585.2 2,593.5 Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office from Expenses ratio 57.6% 60.9% 61.1% 62.3% 64.6% production and capital investment was a little slow in the Cabinet Office data Net operating profits before credit costs for trust accounts and 1,539.2 1,464.1 1,644.9 1,557.9 1,418.2 corporate sector. In Europe, domestic demand continued provision for general allowance for credit losses to pick up, supported by improved employment Employee Income* (Year on Year) Total credit costs 115.6 （11.8） 161.6 255.1 155.3 conditions and low interest rates, despite an increase in （%） Wages per person Employment Employee income the Bank and the Trust Bank combined* 1 65.3 （35.1） 71.1 103.7 47.9 Net gains (losses) on equity securities （53.6） 144.5 93.1 88.3 124.9 uncertainty stemming from the UK’s vote to leave the EU 2.5 Gains (losses) on sales of equity securities 33.6 157.5 97.9 113.6 127.4 and NPL problems in Southern European countries. On 2.0 Losses on write-down of equity securities （87.3） （12.9） （4.8） （25.3） （2.5） the whole, the Asian economy was solid, particularly in 1.5 Profits (losses) from investments in affiliates 52.0 112.4 159.6 230.4 244.4 ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations). 1.0 Other non-recurring gains (losses) （77.7） （38.2） （23.0） （82.0） （271.4） However, each country’s exports were pushed down by 0.5 Ordinary profits 1,344.1 1,694.8 1,713.0 1,539.4 1,360.7 the economic slowdown in China, which has been 0 Net extraordinary gains (losses) 9.6 （151.7） （98.2） （40.7） （57.5） undergoing structural adjustment. -0.5 Total taxes 395.7 439.9 467.7 460.2 342.1 -1.0 Tax burden ratio 29.2% 28.5% 28.9% 30.7% 26.2% Under such circumstances, Japan’s economy maintained 34.6 -1.5 Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 105.3 118.1 113.2 87.1 a moderate recovery throughout the fiscal year, yet some (CY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profits attributable to owners of parent 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 951.4 926.4 areas experienced a delay in improvement. Private * Employee income is the number of employees multiplied by wages per person consumption continued to grow, albeit slowly, on the Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office based on Balance sheet data: MIC and MHLW data back of an increase in employment and wages; Total assets 234,498.7 258,131.9 286,149.7 298,302.8 303,297.4 meanwhile, residential investment also remained strong. Loans and bills discounted 91,299.5 101,938.9 109,368.3 113,756.3 109,005.2 CAPEX (Real GDP base*, Forecast) Securities 79,526.8 74,515.5 73,538.1 69,993.8 59,438.8 Capital expenditure continued to increase gradually, (Trillions of Yen) Total liabilities 220,979.0 243,019.0 268,862.2 280,916.1 286,639.0 underpinned by an upturn in exports and production, 90 (Forecast) Deposits 131,697.0 144,760.2 153,357.4 160,965.0 170,730.2 although it was held back temporarily by a slowdown in Negotiable certificates of deposit 14,855.0 15,548.1 16,073.8 11,591.5 11,341.5 corporate earnings growth caused by yen appreciation in 80 Total net assets 13,519.6 15,112.8 17,287.5 17,386.7 16,658.3 the first half of the fiscal year. Public demand was almost Total shareholders’ equity 10,578.3 11,346.2 11,328.6 11,855.8 12,318.8 flat. Turning now to financial conditions, there were large 70 Retained earnings 6,267.9 7,033.1 7,860.4 8,587.5 9,278.5 fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and stock prices in Total accumulated other comprehensive income 1,158.2 1,709.7 3,989.2 3,602.1 2,961.3 Japan. During the first half of fiscal year 2016, the 1,377.7 60 Non-controlling interests 1,774.1 2,048.1 1,961.3 1,920.5 Japanese yen continued to appreciate against the US dollar and Japan’s stock market was weak against a Financial Ratios 0 backdrop of uncertainties surrounding the global (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio*2 11.60% 11.18% 11.09% 11.63% 11.76% economy. However, after the US presidential election, the * Based on 2005 prices Tier 1 Capital ratio*2 12.63% 12.37% 12.58% 13.24% 13.36% Total Capital ratio*2 16.53% 15.43% 15.62% 16.01% 15.85% Japanese yen depreciated sharply and stock prices Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office from Cabinet Office data Dividends per share (DPS) (yen) 13.0 16.0 18.0 18.0 18.0 surged due to high expectations brought about by the Dividend payout ratio 22.0% 23.4% 24.6% 26.3% 26.4% new administration. Towards the end of the fiscal year, Interest rate, Foreign exchange, and Stock prices Book-value per share (BPS) (yen) 800.95 893.77 1,092.75 1,121.07 1,137.78 the Japanese yen appreciated again. As for interest rates, JPY/USD Nikkei Stock Average 10-year JGB yield Earnings per share (EPS) (yen) 58.99 68.29 73.22 68.51 68.28 the US Federal Reserve raised interest rates in December ￥18,909 ROE MUFG definition 8.77% 9.05% 8.74% 7.63% 7.25% and March; whereas the Bank of England reduced interest ROE TSE definition 7.96% 8.05% 7.38% 6.18% 6.02% rates in August after the national referendum and the ￥111 Total number of ordinary shares (excluding own shares) (billion shares) 14.155 14.161 14.017 13.788 13.462 European Central Bank retained its monetary Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 558 567 743.7 521.5 699.7 easing policy. Market capitalization*3 (trillions of yen) 7.8 8.0 10.4 7.1 9.3 PBR*3 (times) 0.69 0.63 0.68 0.46 0.61 0.07% Additionally, the Bank of Japan maintained its aggressive 0 PER* (times) 3 9.4 8.3 10.1 7.6 10.2 monetary easing stance with the introduction of *1 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (non-consolidated) + Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (non-consolidated) (without any adjustments) *2 The risk-adjusted capital ratios and the amounts of components thereof prior to FY 2014 reflect corrections of errors discovered in the risk weighting applied to certain assets, mostly “Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with Yield residential mortgage loans, and certain other adjustments made under Basel I standards to obtain amounts that were used for floor adjustments in determining the amounts of riskCurve Control” in September, resulting in continued, low, Mar. 2013 Mar. 2014 Mar. 2015 Mar. 2016 Mar. 2017 weighted assets under Basel III standards. *3 Figures based on fiscal year-end share price long-term interest rates. Source: Bloomberg 92 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 93 Financial Data / Corporate Data Financial Review for Fiscal 2016 Consolidated Earnings Summary History of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent Net Operating Profits by Business Segment Global Markets Business Group Consolidated Net Operating Profits (Billions of Yen) First half Second half Consolidated net operating profits*1 decreased ¥155.2 In the Global Markets Business Group, net operating Consolidated gross profits for the fiscal year ended March 1,200 Negative goodwill* 290.6 billion to ¥1,395.8 billion. Although the Global Banking profits for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 decreased 31, 2017 decreased ¥131.3 billion from the previous fiscal Business Group showed year-on-year growth in its net ¥58.4 billion to ¥369.1 billion. This was attributable to a 1,033.7 Target year to ¥4,011.8 billion. Despite robust revenues from 981.3 984.8 operating profits despite the negative effect of foreign decrease in revenues from ALM banking operations, 1,000 951.4 950.0 loans and deposits and fees and commissions in overseas 926.4 exchange rates, net operating profits decreased in the reflecting the reduction of foreign bond portfolio in operations, the decrease in consolidated gross profits 852.6 Retail Banking Business, Japanese Corporate Banking anticipation of, and reaction to, rising interest rates in the 285.2 was mainly attributable to a decrease in net interest 800 455.0 Business, Asset Management / Investor Services Business United States following the presidential election, despite 454.6 352.0 income from domestic loans and deposits under the 435.9 and Global Markets Business groups due to stagnant steady revenues from domestic foreign exchange 510.0 near-zero interest rate environment in Japan, sluggish market conditions in Japan and overseas. operations and solid showings overseas in sales & trading investment product sales, a decrease in gains on debt 600 business. 562.1 securities and a decrease in JPY value due to the With regard to the net operating profits in the customer appreciation of JPY against other currencies. 400 segments, 40% of profits were earned from overseas business.*2 578.7 599.3 General and Administrative expenses for the fiscal year 530.2 490.5 440.0 *1 On a managerial accounting basis (the Japanese Corporate Banking Business Group ended March 31, 2017 increased ¥8.2 billion from the 200 405.4 excludes overseas Japanese corporate business) 290.4 previous fiscal year to ¥2,593.5 billion, mainly due to *2 Net operating profits from Global Banking Business Group Net Operating Profits by Business Segment higher expenses for regulatory compliance purposes 0 Retail Banking Japanese Corporate Banking Global Banking despite lower domestic expenses reflecting our efforts for (FY) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Retail Banking Business Group Asset Management / Investor Services Global Markets cutting costs and the effect of the appreciation of JPY * One-time effect of negative goodwill associated with the application of equity In the Retail Banking Business Group, net operating method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley against other currencies. As a result, consolidated net profits for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 decreased (Billions of Yen) 1,551.0*1 operating profits decreased ¥139.6 billion from the ¥61.3 billion to ¥225.3 billion. This was mainly due to 1,395.8*1 previous fiscal year to ¥1,418.2 billion. decreases in net revenues from deposits and loans due to 427.5 tighter interest rate spreads under the near-zero interest 369.1 Credit Costs Breakdown of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent* rate environment in Japan, as well as sluggish investment 70.2 Total credit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 product sales in response to uncertain market conditions. 60.9 (Billions of Yen) decreased ¥99.7 billion from the previous fiscal year to MUFG 458.0 1,000 the Securities Business-HD Morgan Others Consolidated ¥155.3 billion. This decrease went well beyond our initial 49.0 Stanley 30.8 926.4 Japanese Corporate Banking Business Group 482.5 the Americas HD 137.6 forecast mainly due to the improvement of credit quality 900 101.9 In the Japanese Corporate Banking Business Group, net Customer Customer of resource-related clients, despite the deterioration of Krungsri operating profits for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 segments*2 segments 800 the Trust Bank 82％ 460.3 credit quality of some large borrowers. Non-consolidated 57.9 NICOS decreased ¥38.1 billion to ¥422.2 billion. Although large85％ 422.2 120.2 (23.9) ACOM scale transactions in investment banking operations 700 the Bank (28.8) Net Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities Non-consolidated contributed to profits, a decrease in revenues from 481.4 286.6 Net gains on equity securities increased ¥36.6 billion to 600 deposits and lending operations reflecting lower interest 225.3 ¥124.9 billion. This was mainly attributable to progress in rate environment in Japan served as a primary factor for (FY) 2015 2016 500 the sales of equity holdings. the decrease in profits in the Japanese Corporate Banking *1 Total net operating profits include net operating profit for “Other” segment 400 Business Group, as well as in the Retail Banking (FY 2015: (¥151.7 bn), FY 2016: (¥164.2 bn)) *2 Ratio of customer segments = net operating profits from customer segments / total net Ordinary Profits Business Group. operating profits (*1) 0 Ordinary profits decreased ¥178.7 billion to ¥1,360.7 billion. * The above figures take into consideration the percentage holding in each subsidiary and Despite an increase of ¥14.0 billion in profits from equity method investee (after-tax basis) Global Banking Business Group investments in affiliates thanks to growth in earnings in In the Global Banking Business Group, net operating Breakdown of Changes in Net Operating Profits Morgan Stanley and other affiliates, other non-recurring profits for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 increased (Billions of Yen) losses increased ¥189.4 billion year-on-year due to such ¥24.4 billion to ¥482.5 billion. Despite a sluggish 1,551.0 factors as an additional allowance for the excess interest performance in such East Asian countries as China and Global repayment at Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM and an the negative effect of the yen appreciation, net operating Banking 24.4 increase in cost of retirement benefit. profits increased due to strong revenue from major Retail Banking Asset financing transactions in Europe and the Americas, (61.3) Japanese Management / 1,395.8 Corporate Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent large-scale project finance arrangements in Asia and Banking Investor Global Services Markets Others Although net extraordinary losses increased ¥16.8 billion Oceania and auto loan and consumer finance operations (38.1) (9.3) (58.4) (12.5) from the previous fiscal year mainly due to an increase in undertaken by the Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri). losses on change in equity related to Morgan Stanley, tax Sum of customer segments expenses decreased ¥118.0 billion due to a decline in Asset Management / Investor Services Business Group (84.3) income before income taxes and a decrease in the In the Asset Management / Investor Services Business effective corporate tax rate. As a result, profits attributable Group, net operating profits for the fiscal year ended to owners of parent decreased ¥24.9 billion to ¥926.4 March 31, 2017 decreased ¥9.3 billion to ¥60.9 billion, billion, exceeding the target of ¥850.0 billion. reflecting the dissolution of employees’ pension fund plans and weaker individual investors’ demand for investment product. (FY) 2015 2016 94 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 95 Financial Data / Corporate Data Financial Review for Fiscal 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet Summary Loans (Period end balance) *1 Capital Capital Adequacy (Billions of Yen) Loans (banking and trust accounts) Housing loan Domestic corporate*2 Government Overseas*3 Others Total Capital Change Mar. 31, Mar. 31, from Loans decreased ¥4,697.4 billion from the previous fiscal (Trillions of Yen) 109.4 111.9 113.9 105.0 109.2 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital increased by ¥393.1 billion 2017 2016 Mar. 31, 120 102.6 1.3 year ended March 31, 2016, to ¥109,209.4 billion mainly 1.3 1.5 1.3 1.3 1.5 and Total capital increased by ¥134.3 billion respectively 2016 100 due to a decrease in loans to government and 43.0 from the end of March 2016, mainly due to increases in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio 11.76% 11.63% 0.13% 36.1 41.7 42.4 38.9 43.4 governmental institutions. 80 retained earnings and other comprehensive income, as Tier 1 Capital ratio 13.36% 13.24% 0.12% 7.9 9.7 10.1 5.5 4.2 60 7.6 well as subordinated debt funding. Total Capital ratio 15.85% 16.01% （0.15%） The risk-monitored loans ratio decreased 0.04 40 41.5 42.4 42.7 43.8 43.4 44.2 percentage points from the previous fiscal year ended 20 Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) Tier 1 Capital 15,232.4 14,839.2 393.1 March 31, 2016, to 1.41%. 15.9 15.8 15.6 15.5 15.6 15.7 RWA increased by ¥1,922.0 billion from the previous fiscal Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 13,413.8 13,039.8 374.0 0 Sep. 30, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 Sep. 30, 2016 Mar. 31, 2017 year ended March 31, 2016, mainly due to increases in Retained earnings 9,278.5 8,587.5 690.9 Deposits *1 Sum of banking and trust accounts *2 Excluding loans to government and governmental institutions, and including loans to domestic corporate and overseas loans. Other comprehensive income 2,369.1 2,161.2 207.8 Deposits increased ¥9,765.1 billion from the previous foreign currency denominated loans *3 Loans booked in overseas branches, the Americas HD, Krungsri, Regulatory adjustments （1,363.2） （1,100.4） （262.8） fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, to ¥170,730.2 billion the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (China), the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (Malaysia) and MUFG Bank (Europe) Capital Adequacy Additional Tier 1 Capital 1,818.6 1,799.4 19.1 mainly due to an increase of domestic corporate The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 11.76%, the Preferred securities and 1,650.2 1,544.5 105.7 subordinated debt deposits. Tier 1 Capital ratio was 13.36% and the Total Capital ratio Foreign currency translation Deposits (Period end balance) was 15.85%. adjustments 111.6 316.5 （204.8） Domestic Deposit / Lending Rates Domestic individual Domestic corporate, etc. Overseas and others Tier 2 Capital 2,843.6 3,102.5 （258.8） Differences in yield between lending rate and deposit rate (Trillions of Yen) The provisional figure for the Common Equity Tier 1 Subordinated debt 2,132.6 2,060.5 72.0 in Japan, excluding loans to government, decreased 0.10 200 170.7 Capital ratio, calculated on the basis of regulations Amounts equivalent to 45% of 160.9 161.6 percentage points from FY 2015 4Q mainly due to a 144.1 153.3 154.4 applied at the end of March 2019, is 11.9%. unrealized gains on available-for277.8 633.8 （356.0） 150 34.0 36.5 sale securities decline in lending rates reflecting lower market interest 35.4 36.2 37.1 29.6 Total Capital (Tier 1+Tier 2) 18,076.1 17,941.8 134.3 rates. 100 56.2 61.0 Shareholder Returns 45.1 47.4 47.4 52.7 MUFG considers the return of earnings to shareholders to Risk weighted assets 113,986.3 112,064.3 1,922.0 Investment Securities 50 69.2 70.4 70.7 71.0 71.2 73.0 be one of the most important management priorities and Credit risk 96,906.3 95,372.3 1,534.0 The balance of available-for-sale securities decreased makes it a basic policy to aim for a stable and continuous 0 Market risk 2,135.7 2,198.7 （62.9） ¥10,705.3 billion compared with the balance as of March Sep. 30, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 Sep. 30, 2016 Mar. 31, 2017 increase in dividends per share through growth in profits. Operational risk 6,734.5 6,581.1 153.4 31, 2016, to ¥54,813.1 billion due to a decrease in Japanese Transitional floor 8,209.7 7,912.1 297.5 Government Bond (JGB) and foreign bond portfolio. With respect to the year-end dividend for common stock Changes in Domestic Deposit / Lending Rates for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, MUFG pays ¥9 Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Lending rate per share. As a result, the annual dividend for the fiscal Results and Forecasts of Shareholder Returns Differences in yield between lending rate and deposit rate decreased ¥346.2 billion compared with the previous （%） Deposit rate year, including the interim dividend of ¥9 per share, is ¥18 40.6% 30.0% 25.2%* 22.0% 23.4% 24.6% 26.3% 26.4% 25.4% payout ratio Dividend fiscal year to ¥3,139.0 billion due to decreases in net 1.2 per share, which is the same amount as the annual 1.01% 388.7 583.0 690.6* 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 951.4 926.4 950.0 Profits unrealized gains on JGBs and foreign bonds, despite an dividend paid for the previous fiscal year. attributable to owners of 1.0 0.94% increase in net unrealized gains on domestic equity 0.91% 0.89% 0.89% Year-end dividend Interim dividend parent (Billions of Yen) 0.97% securities. 0.92% 0.89% During the fiscal 2016, we repurchased our own shares for ¥18 ¥18 ¥18 ¥18 Dividend per 0.88% 0.87% common 0.2 approximately ¥100.0 billion in May and November 2016, ¥16 stock With regard to the JGB balance, by maturity, MUFG respectively. The purposes of the repurchases were to ¥13 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 0.03% 0.02% 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% ¥12 ¥12 ¥12 ¥9 increased the proportion of short-term bonds, taking a 0 enhance shareholder returns, to improve our capital ¥7 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q ¥6 ¥6 ¥6 prudent approach with due consideration given to the efficiency and to allow the implementation of flexible 2014 2015 2016 interest rate environments at home and abroad. As a capital policies in response to changes in the business ¥7 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 ¥6 ¥6 ¥6 ¥6 result, duration decreased to 2.6 years. environment. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Balance of Japanese Government Bonds (JGB) Portfolio (Forecast) Available-for-sale Securities with Fair Value (Billions of Yen) by Maturity (the Bank and the Trust Bank combined)* In addition, the Company passed a resolution at Board of * FY 2011 figures do not include one-time effect of negative goodwill associated Balance Unrealized gains (losses) ｗithin 1 year 1 year to 5 years 5 years to 10 years over 10 years Director’s meeting on May 15, 2017 with regard to the with application of equity method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley Change Change (Right axis) Duration (JGB, non-consolidated) enforcement of a policy of setting an upper limit on the Mar. 31, from Mar. 31, from (Trillions of Yen) (Year) number of shares held as treasury stock. Specifically, the Outline of Repurchase of Own Share 2017 Mar. 31, 2017 Mar. 31, 50 5.0 2016 2016 Company will retain own shares of approximately 5% of 2016 39.6 35.1 4.0 3.9 the total number of issued shares at maximum and Type of shares repurchased Ordinary shares of MUFG Total 54,813.1 （10,705.3） 3,139.0 （346.2） 40 2.1 4.0 5.0 2.5 30.2 25.1 cancel the shares exceeding the threshold. As the 3.2 28.3 Approx. ¥200 billion Domestic equity 3.3 25.5 percentage of treasury stock as of March 31, 2017, stood Aggregate amount of repurchase price securities 5,164.6 291.4 2,635.1 429.7 30 2.8 5.7 2.4 2.6 3.0 (Approx. ¥100 billion twice) 3.2 16.1 5.4 3.3 2.1 at approximately 5% of the total number of shares Aggregate number of shares repurchased Approx. 332.85 million shares 5.7 2.7 Domestic bonds 27,688.8 （2,633.6） 399.1 （319.1） 20 14.1 4.8 2.0 outstanding, MUFG plans to cancel all of the shares 11.0 6.3 8.6 7.2 (Reference) First half of 2017 Japanese 24,010.6 （3,245.3） 351.0 （280.8） 10 1.0 acquired through share repurchases during and after government bonds 16.2 Type of shares repurchased Ordinary shares of MUFG 12.7 11.3 10.7 10.1 13.8 fiscal 2017 in line with this new policy. Others 21,959.6 （8,363.1） 104.7 （456.8） 0 0 Aggregate amount of repurchase price Approx. ¥100 billion Sep. 30, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 Sep. 30, 2016 Mar. 31, 2017 Approx. 141.15 million shares Foreign bonds 17,917.3 （8,733.1） (8.4) （519.4） * Available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities Aggregate number of shares repurchased (All of the shares cancelled) (duration is for available-for-sale securities only) 96 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 97 Financial Data / Corporate Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Mar 31, 2017 Mar 31, 2016 Mar 31, 2017 Mar 31, 2016 FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2015 Assets: Liabilities: Gross profits 4,011,809 4,143,202 Profits 961,050 1,038,565 Cash and due from banks 63,525,940 49,158,293 Deposits 170,730,221 160,965,056 Gross profits before credit costs for trust 4,011,808 4,143,202 Other comprehensive income accounts Call loans and bills bought 649,147 660,015 Negotiable certificates of deposit 11,341,571 11,591,578 Net unrealized gains (losses) on （278,689） （346,220） Net interest income 2,024,487 2,113,564 available-for-sale securities Receivables under resale agreements 8,066,973 7,466,633 Call money and bills sold 1,973,569 1,360,238 Trust fees 122,050 117,046 Net deferred gains (losses) on hedging Receivables under securities Payables under repurchase （212,449） 252,671 11,002,723 6,041,983 17,636,962 23,515,240 instruments borrowing transactions agreements Credit costs for trust accounts 0 0 Land revaluation excess （21） 7,055 Monetary claims bought 4,707,868 4,733,393 Payables under securities lending Net fees and commissions 1,328,490 1,320,554 transactions 5,538,739 4,710,407 Foreign currency translation Trading assets 21,046,367 20,460,863 Net trading profits 290,035 306,354 （145,331） （214,273） adjustments Commercial papers 2,307,222 2,292,282 Money held in trust 806,881 679,678 Net other operating profits 246,744 285,682 Remeasurements of defined benefit Trading liabilities 17,700,617 17,251,302 plans 134,560 （141,896） Securities 59,438,897 69,993,869 Net gains (losses) on debt securities 56,871 132,928 Borrowed money 16,971,085 12,482,277 Share of other comprehensive income Loans and bills discounted 109,005,231 113,756,325 General and administrative expenses 2,593,576 2,585,279 Foreign exchanges 1,970,980 2,054,937 of associates accounted for using equity （128,510） 24,759 Foreign exchanges 2,083,530 1,792,888 Amortization of goodwill 16,737 16,931 method Short-term bonds payable 847,999 752,492 Other assets 11,554,699 12,255,764 Net operating profits before credit costs for trust Total other comprehensive income （630,441） （417,903） Bonds payable 9,893,687 9,190,542 accounts, provision for general allowance for 1,434,969 1,574,853 Tangible fixed assets 1,358,905 1,362,044 credit losses and amortization of goodwill Comprehensive income 330,609 620,662 Due to trust accounts 9,893,881 13,296,033 Buildings 341,131 349,761 Net operating profits before credit costs (Comprehensive income attributable to) Other liabilities 9,382,992 10,834,564 for trust accounts and provision for 1,418,231 1,557,922 Land 720,132 730,130 general allowance for credit losses Comprehensive income attributable to 303,054 556,163 Reserve for bonuses 81,012 90,219 owners of the parent Lease assets 10,164 10,856 Provision for general allowance for credit losses （210,257） 175,712 Reserve for bonuses to directors 598 396 Comprehensive income attributable to 27,554 64,498 Construction in progress 46,373 38,494 Net operating profits*1 1,207,974 1,733,635 non-controlling interests Reserve for stocks payment 10,400 ー Other tangible fixed assets 241,104 232,801 Net non-recurring gains (losses) 152,793 （194,148） Net defined benefit liabilities 59,045 62,791 Intangible fixed assets 1,257,876 1,254,727 Credit costs （9,606） （491,503） Reserve for retirement benefits to Software 567,753 570,884 1,128 1,113 directors Losses on loan write-offs （136,423） （143,946） Goodwill 267,389 278,628 Reserve for loyalty award credits 16,689 15,971 Provision for specific allowance for credit losses 181,550 （305,131） Lease assets 446 648 Reserve for contingent losses 384,868 210,087 Other intangible fixed assets 422,287 404,566 Other credit costs （54,733） （42,425） Reserves under special laws 4,075 4,232 Net defined benefit assets 601,377 377,955 Reversal of allowance for credit losses ー ー Deferred tax liabilities 745,073 866,815 Reversal of reserve for contingent Deferred tax assets 126,231 125,739 Deferred tax liabilities for land ー ー 124,483 127,237 losses included in credit costs Customers’ liabilities for acceptances revaluation and guarantees 9,022,130 9,240,310 Gains on loans written-off 64,487 60,645 Acceptances and guarantees 9,022,130 9,240,310 Allowance for credit losses （957,350） （1,057,585） Net gains (losses) on equity securities 124,940 88,306 Total liabilities 286,639,039 280,916,129 Total assets 303,297,433 298,302,898 Gains on sales of equity securities 171,875 145,347 Net assets: Losses on sales of equity securities （44,378） （31,656） Capital stock 2,141,513 2,141,513 Losses on write-down of equity securities （2,557） （25,384） Capital surplus 1,412,087 1,425,637 Profits (losses) from investments in affiliates 244,453 230,415 Retained earnings 9,278,546 8,587,578 Other non-recurring gains (losses) （271,481） （82,012） Treasury stock （513,260） （298,922） Ordinary profits 1,360,767 1,539,486 Total shareholders’ equity 12,318,885 11,855,806 Net extraordinary gains (losses) （57,539） （40,717） Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 2,184,597 2,486,627 Net losses on change in equity （45,654） （36,013） Net deferred gains (losses) on hedging 125,684 337,297 Profits before income taxes 1,303,228 1,498,769 instruments Income taxes-current 319,060 424,814 Land revaluation excess 173,723 176,364 Income taxes-deferred 23,116 35,389 Foreign currency translation adjustments 558,339 791,401 Total taxes 342,177 460,204 Remeasurements of defined benefit Profits 961,050 1,038,565 （65,098） （189,526） plans Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 34,609 87,162 Debt value adjustments of foreign （15,863） ー Profits attributable to owners of parent 926,440 951,402 subsidiaries and affiliates *1 Net operating profits = Banking subsidiaries’ net operating profits + Other consolidated Total accumulated other comprehensive income 2,961,382 3,602,163 entities’ gross profits Other consolidated entities’ general and administrative expenses Other consolidated entities’ provision for general allowance for credit losses Amortization of goodwill Inter-company transactions Subscription rights to shares 407 8,260 Non-controlling interests 1,377,719 1,920,538 (Reference) Total net assets 16,658,394 17,386,769 FY 2016 FY 2015 Total liabilities and net assets 303,297,433 298,302,898 Total credit costs*2 （155,376） （255,145） *2 Total credit costs = Credit costs for trust accounts + Provision for general allowance for credit losses + Credit costs (included in non-recurring gains / losses) + Reversal of allowance for credit losses + Reversal of reserve for contingent losses included in credit costs + Gains on loans written-off 98 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 99 Financial Data / Corporate Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2015 Shareholders’ equity comprehensive income Cash flows from operating activities: Cash flows from investing activities: FY 2016 Total Net unrealized Net deferred Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock shareholders’ gains (losses) on available-forgains (losses) on hedging Profits before income taxes 1,303,228 1,498,769 Purchases of securities （56,618,395） （86,422,400） equity sale securities instruments Depreciation and amortization 316,411 298,527 Proceeds from sales of securities 39,602,665 60,274,528 Balance at the beginning of the period 2,141,513 1,425,637 8,587,578 (298,922) 11,855,806 2,486,627 337,297 Impairment losses 10,162 13,415 Cumulative effects due to revision of accounting Proceeds from redemption of securities 26,428,256 28,452,434 standards for foreign subsidiaries and affiliates 8,464 8,464 Amortization of goodwill 16,737 16,931 Payments for increase in money held in Restated balance 2,141,513 1,425,637 8,596,043 (298,922) 11,864,271 2,486,627 337,297 Equity in losses (gains) of equity method （763,127） （641,740） investees （244,453） （230,415） trust Changes during the period Cash dividends (246,557) (246,557) Proceeds from decrease in money held Increase (decrease) in allowance for （92,783） 71,084 in trust 615,931 672,854 Profits attributable to owners of parent 926,440 926,440 credit losses Repurchase of treasury stock (217,688) (217,688) Increase (decrease) in reserve for bonuses （285） 955 Purchases of tangible fixed assets （121,733） （116,931） Disposal of treasury stock (936) 3,350 2,414 Increase (decrease) in reserve for Purchases of intangible fixed assets （249,744） （231,615） Reversal of land revaluation excess 2,619 2,619 bonuses to directors 202 （58） Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (12,614) (12,614) Proceeds from sales of tangible fixed Increase (decrease) in reserve for stocks 10,400 ー assets 31,815 35,494 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (302,029) (211,612) payment Total changes during the period ー (13,550) 682,503 (214,337) 454,614 (302,029) (211,612) Proceeds from sales of intangible fixed Decrease (increase) in net defined 2,890 166 Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 1,412,087 9,278,546 (513,260) 12,318,885 2,184,597 125,684 benefit assets （92,720） （88,908） assets Increase (decrease) in net defined Payments for acquisition of subsidiaries’ (Millions of Yen) 1,652 （2,255） benefit liabilities equity affecting the scope of （21,954） ー Accumulated other comprehensive income consolidation Increase (decrease) in reserve for Foreign Debt value Total Subscription retirement benefits to directors 14 27 Land Remeasurements adjustments accumulated rights Non-controlling Total net assets Proceeds from acquisition of currency revaluation of defined of foreign other to shares interests Increase (decrease) in reserve for loyalty subsidiaries’ equity affecting the scope ー 218,639 excess translation benefit plans subsidiaries comprehensive award credits 959 1,313 of consolidation adjustments and affiliates income Increase (decrease) in reserve for Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries’ Balance at the beginning of the period 176,364 791,401 (189,526) ー 3,602,163 8,260 1,920,538 17,386,769 175,716 5,572 Cumulative effects due to revision of accounting contingent losses equity affecting the scope of 2,761 ー (8,464) (8,464) ー Interest income recognized on consolidation standards for foreign subsidiaries and affiliates （2,888,134） （2,769,248） statement of income Restated balance 176,364 791,401 (189,526) (8,464) 3,593,699 8,260 1,920,538 17,386,769 Others （1,815） （1,221） Changes during the period Interest expenses recognized on statement of income 863,677 655,735 Net cash provided by (used in) Cash dividends (246,557) investing activities 8,907,549 2,240,209 Profits attributable to owners of parent 926,440 Losses (gains) on securities （181,811） （221,235） Repurchase of treasury stock (217,688) Cash flows from financing activities: Losses (gains) on money held in trust 8,771 （10,689） Disposal of treasury stock 2,414 Proceeds from subordinated borrowings 31,000 38,000 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 459,763 1,439,205 Reversal of land revaluation excess 2,619 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (12,614) Losses (gains) on sales of fixed assets （8,200） （9,171） Repayments of subordinated borrowings （50,592） （92,500） redemption Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (2,641) (233,062) 124,427 (7,399) (632,317) (7,853) (542,819) (1,182,989) Net decrease (increase) in trading assets （1,737,675） 49,544 Total changes during the period (2,641) (233,062) 124,427 (7,399) (632,317) (7,853) (542,819) (728,375) Proceeds from issuance of subordinated Net increase (decrease) in trading liabilities 1,448,201 1,980,093 bonds payable and bonds with warrants 837,401 793,218 Balance at the end of the period 173,723 558,339 (65,098) (15,863) 2,961,382 407 1,377,719 16,658,394 Net decrease (increase) in unsettled trading accounts （50,814） （821,034） Payments for redemption of (Millions of Yen) subordinated bonds payable and bonds （476,943） （294,460） Net decrease (increase) in loans and bills with warrants Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other discounted 4,065,265 （4,990,628） comprehensive income Proceeds from issuance of common FY 2015 Net unrealized Net deferred Net increase (decrease) in deposits 10,427,476 7,888,704 stock to non-controlling shareholders 1,195 1,081 Total gains (losses) on gains (losses) on Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock shareholders’ Net increase (decrease) in negotiable equity available-forhedging （242,013） （4,482,406） Repayments to non-controlling sale securities instruments certificates of deposit shareholders （854） ー Balance at the beginning of the period 2,141,513 1,428,403 7,860,410 （101,661） 11,328,666 2,835,091 83,194 Net increase (decrease) in borrowed money Changes during the period (excluding subordinated borrowings) 4,551,643 （1,362,550） Payments for redemption of preferred securities （468,956） ー Cash dividends （251,392） （251,392） Net decrease (increase) in due from banks (excluding cash equivalents) 802,579 80,699 Profits attributable to owners of parent 951,402 951,402 Dividends paid by MUFG （246,563） （251,497） Repurchase of treasury stock （200,077） （200,077） Net decrease (increase) in call loans and （1,413,158） （633,599） Dividends paid by subsidiaries to nonDisposal of treasury stock （1,182） 2,815 1,633 bills bought and others controlling shareholders （77,008） （94,825） Reversal of land revaluation excess 3,042 3,042 Net decrease (increase) in receivables under securities borrowing transactions （5,203,785） （1,438,094） Purchases of treasury stock （217,666） （200,053） Changes of application of equity method 24,394 24,394 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity （1,584） （1,584） Net increase (decrease) in call money （3,999,428） （435,883） Proceeds from sales of treasury stock 3 1 Changes in foreign affiliates' interests in their ubsidiaries （278） （278） and bills sold and others Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity （348,464） 254,103 Payments for purchases of subsidiaries’ Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers 33,847 119,203 Total changes during the period ー （2,766） 727,168 （197,261） 527,140 （348,464） 254,103 equity not affecting the scope of （1,612） （4,572） Net increase (decrease) in payables consolidation Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 1,425,637 8,587,578 （298,922） 11,855,806 2,486,627 337,297 under securities lending transactions 850,842 （3,446,893） Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries’ Net decrease (increase) in foreign 0 ー (Millions of Yen) exchanges (assets) （302,389） 380,193 equity not affecting the scope of consolidation Accumulated other comprehensive income Net increase (decrease) in foreign Total exchanges (liabilities) （81,641） 544,080 Others 4 3 Foreign currency Remeasurements accumulated Subscription Non-controlling Land revaluation Total net assets translation of defined benefit other rights to shares interests Net increase (decrease) in short-term Net cash provided by (used in) excess adjustments plans comprehensive bonds payable 95,507 （37,019） financing activities （670,592） （105,602） income Net increase (decrease) in issuance and Balance at the beginning of the period 172,350 951,547 （52,909） 3,989,274 8,271 1,961,322 17,287,533 redemption of unsubordinated bonds payable 422,720 649,951 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes （45,486） （115,214） on cash and cash equivalents Changes during the period Net increase (decrease) in due to trust accounts （3,402,151） 10,112,737 Cash dividends （251,392） Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash Interest income (cash basis) 3,023,722 2,897,378 equivalents 15,204,534 8,773,820 Profits attributable to owners of parent 951,402 Repurchase of treasury stock （200,077） Interest expenses (cash basis) （847,418） （654,026） Cash and cash equivalents at the Disposal of treasury stock 1,633 beginning of the period 18,763,856 9,990,035 Others （684,097） 175,151 Reversal of land revaluation excess 3,042 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of Changes of application of equity method 24,394 Sub-total 7,416,541 7,245,155 the period 33,968,391 18,763,856 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity （1,584） Income taxes （427,841） （537,036） Changes in foreign affiliates' interests in their subsidiaries （278） Refund of income taxes 24,364 46,308 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 4,013 （160,146） （136,616） （387,110） （10） （40,783） （427,904） 4,013 （160,146） （136,616） （387,110） （10） （40,783） 99,236 Net cash provided by (used in) Total changes during the period operating activities 7,013,064 6,754,428 Balance at the end of the period 176,364 791,401 （189,526） 3,602,163 8,260 1,920,538 17,386,769 100 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 101 Financial Data / Corporate Data Company Overview Corporate Information (As of March 31, 2017) Major MUFG Group Companies (As of March 31, 2017) Company Name Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Head Office 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, ■ Consolidated subsidiary ● Equity method investee Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Date of Establishment April 2, 2001 Amount of Capital ¥2,141.5 billion Holding Company Common Stock (Issued) 14,168,853,820 shares Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Stock Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange Ticker Symbol Number 8306 (Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange) Commercial Bank Leasing MTU (New York Stock Exchange) ■ Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ ● Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Number of shareholders 749,688 ※Legal name will be changed to MUFG Bank, Ltd effective Apr 1, 2018 ● Hitachi Capital Trust Bank Asset Management Stock Price* Tokyo Stock Exchange Ownership and Distribution of Shares* ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management Government and local ■ The Master Trust Bank of Japan MUFG Nikkei 225 Securities: governments: ■ MU Investments 160 2.95% 0.02% Securities 140 Real-Estate Brokerage 120 ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Corporations: (Securities Holding Company) 100 13.56% ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services Foreign 80 institutions, etc.: ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 60 37.98% ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB Securities Software Development / Information Technology 40 Individuals and ■ kabu.com Securities others: ● Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS 20 ● Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities 13.64% Financial 0 institutions: 2016/6 2016/9 2016/12 2017/3 31.82% Credit Cards / Consumer Finance / Installment Credit Internet Bank / Regional Bank * Note: Share index (2016/3E = 100) * Excludes treasury shares and fractional shares ■ Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS ● Jibun Bank ■ ACOM ● The Chukyo Bank ● JACCS Website For more detailed information, please refer to our website. ● JALCARD Note: Abbreviation of group companies in the MUFG Report Overseas the Bank: Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ ■ Bank of Ayudhya Public Company (Commercial Bank) ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Baillie Gifford Asset Management the Trust Bank: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking the Securities Business-HD: Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings ■ MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation (Investment Advisor) NICOS: Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS (Commercial Bank Holding Company) ■ MUFG Securities EMEA (Securities) the Americas HD: MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation ■ BTMU Leasing & Finance (Leasing) ■ MUFG Securities Asia (Securities) ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International (Securities) ■ MUFG Securities Asia (Singapore) (Securities) ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Fund Services Holdings ● Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade (Fund Administration Holding Company) (Commercial Bank) About MUFG http://www.mufg.jp/english/ (English) ■ MUFG Investor Services (US) (Fund Management) ● Security Bank Corporation (Commercial Bank) ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Investor Services & Banking (Luxembourg) ● Dah Sing Financial Holdings (Custody Bank) (Commercial Bank Holding Company) ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK) (Asset Management) ● AMP Capital Holdings (Asset Management Holding Company) This integrated report was printed in Japan on FSC paper with vegetable oil ink. 102 MUFG Report 2017 MUFG Report 2017 103 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Telephone: 81-3-3240-8111 Issued September 2017 www.mufg.jp/english/ Printed in Japan
