2018 IK Investment Partners Communication on Progress C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 017 2 03. Letter from our CEO/Insights 09. Responsible investment: how we do it 04. IK Investment Partners at a glance 10. Connecting the dots/Our values 05. 2018 Highlights/Our portfolio 11. Social commitment 06. High quality investor base 12. Environmental commitment 07. Definition of ESG 14. Governance 08. IK's ESG journey 15. Our extended commitment: IKARE I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 3 Letter from our CEO HAVING ACCUMULATED 30 YEARS’ experience in ensuring that responsible investing becomes the private equity market, we recognise that our philosophy and forms an integral part of strong environmental, social and governance our business across the value chain. (ESG) practices correlate positively with Becoming a signatory to the UN Global enhanced financial performance within IK, our Compact (UNGC) in 2014, has meant we take portfolio companies as well as enriching an active role in promoting responsible society more broadly. investment. We support the Ten Principles in Since IK's inception, we have made more the areas of Human Rights, Labour, than 120 investments across Europe. As an Environment and Anti-Corruption internally investor, we are fully aware of our responsibility and externally. towards our stakeholders. Thus, we are This is our fourth Communication on committed to the highest standards of Progress Report, which highlights our business conduct and behaviour, creating and commitment to transparency and managing sustainable value in the markets in accountability. This report allows us to which we invest. Professionalism, inform all our stakeholders of the significant accountability and integrity are IK’s work undertaken over the past year. We fundamental values, which have allowed us to recognise that we are on a journey. Notable successfully establish a strong reputation and progress has been made, but we are credibility with our stakeholders. committed to continue to deliver Christopher Masek For several years now, we have been improvement within IK and among our Chief Executive Officer, developing a holistic approach to ESG issues, portfolio companies. IK Investment Partners Insights ACROSS THE MARKETS in which IK operates, We established an ESG manual for our responsible investing is increasingly recognised portfolio companies, which offers management as not just a ‘nice to have’ but a must. Recent teams an overview of our approach to ESG surveys indicate that almost 80% of investors in factors and explains how and where they can private equity expect general partners to access support within IK. increase their focus on ESG considerations. For We have also developed ethical guidelines for some in our industry, this is a sea-change. At IK all our portfolio companies, detailing standards however, we have long understood that of ethical conduct and outlining our fundamental responsible investing is both the right way to do principles, based on the UNGC. business and the best way to do business. As part of our commitment to ethical During 2018, we took several important steps governance, allied with responsible investing, we to improve our approach to ESG. continue to publish a Modern Slavery Act Mikaela Murekian Alina Benyaminova First, we became a signatory to the UN Transparency Statement, declaring zeroDirector Communications and ESG, ESG Coordinator, Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and tolerance towards modern slavery. IK Investment Partners IK Investment Partners published our first report. I am proud to say that We have strengthened our focus on climate we were awarded an A+ in the private equity change and carbon emissions this year. We section. monitor the carbon footprint of IK’s operations We have expanded our ESG team, which now more broadly, as we seek to continue to includes an ESG coordinator. managing climate change and raise awareness of We extended an ESG steering committee to the risks and opportunities associated with it. include both partners and non-partners from IK. IK remains committed to delivering The committee was formed in 2017 to provide sustainable value to all our stakeholders. As part support for our firm and the companies in which of that commitment, we intend to drive our ESG we invest. efforts still further in the years ahead. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 4 IK Investment Partners at a glance >€9.5 billion of capital Leading raised Pan-European private equity firm 122 investments Building stronger and better businesses since 1989 Unique Northern Continental Active European footprint ownership 87 model exits Multiple Fund Defining and Venture Strategies delivering philanthropy transformational activities with agendas IKARE I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 5 2018 Highlights 17% 15 of women at Partner and IK nationalities Director levels IK workforce 44% female 56% male 546 training hours (total) UN PRI Score A+ Our portfolio 2018 >24,000 3 35 employees exits portfolio companies 9 new Portfolio investments activity in 113 countries €3.19 bn 5 year average combined turnover holding period I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 6 IK VIII Fund and IK Small Cap II Fund High quality investor base >60 €2.4bn 26% INVESTORS FUND COMMITMENTS UN PRI SIGNATORIES EXAMPLES OF OUR ULTIMATE STAKEHOLDERS GP 4% RoW 7% Asset Managers 17% North America 38% Bank / Insurance 19% Fund of Funds 21% Europe 55% Pension Funds 39% Canadian teachers British pensioners New York police and fire officers Social security beneficiaries in Kuwait I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 7 Definition of ESG Climate change Labour rights and labour conditions Regulation Pollution and contamination of land, air and water Health and safety Anti-bribery and corruption measures Eco-efficiency and resource efficiency Treatment of customers and communities Business ethics Waste management Human rights Transparency and accountability Natural resource scarcity Diversity Board composition and independence Biodiversity Supply chain management Shareholder rights Data privacy and cyber security I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 8 IK's ESG journey Engaging in RI has been an integral part of IK’s culture since the firm was founded. For the past 10 years, we have been developing a more structured approach to help us create sustainable value. 2016 2012 – First independent ESG review for an IK – IK Code of Ethics adopted 2014 portfolio company commissioned – IK RI Policy formally adopted – Formal integration of ESG criteria into IK's 2007 investment process – IK becomes a signatory of the UN Global Compact – Integration of the ESG –First structured review of IK matters into the IK Annual portfolio companies' ESG Investor Meeting awareness and approach 2011 2017 2015 – ESG manager appointed – IK ESG Steering Committee established 2013 – E&S Assessment tool – First Communication on implemented progress (COP) report – ESG Manual developed published – IK RI questionnaire adopted to strengthen ESG – Audit & ESG committee – ESG risk screening tool developed process governance structure – IK's Carbon Footprint established measured for the first time I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 9 Making the most of ESG opportunities in 2018 ESG Manual for Portfolio Companies First UN PRI Report Speaker at the Nordic Sustainable Finance Conference Supported in Stockholm industry-wide initiative Contributed to the PRI Private Equity Guidance on ESG ESG panellist Monitoring, Reporting and speaker at Dialogues guidance document Almedalen 2018 in Stockholm Ethical Guidelines for Portfolio Companies Responsible Climate Change Investment Training for all IK Forum (PRI-PEI) partners and in London investment staff ESG panellist speaker at the FundForum International in Berlin ESG team expansion I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 10 Responsible investment: how we do it AT IK, RESPONSIBLE investing lies at the heart of who we are and what we do. We moment we consider a potential investment to the point at which we divest. acknowledge that ESG issues can affect the performance of our portfolio With the help of the ''IK Way toolkit'', ESG is embedded into every stage of the companies. Therefore, IK ensures a structured approach to investment from the investment process. Pre Investment 1. We screen all potential investments against a well-defined Responsible Investment (RI) policy, in place since 2012. 2. We scope additional due diligence on ESG-related concerns with external consultants, when deemed appropriate. 3. We advise the Investment Committee on the potential investment and present a detailed assessment of financial and non-financial information. 95% ESG This includes an ESG risk screening and summary of identified ESG assessment factors. included in investment 4. Depending on the materiality of the ESG risks identified, IK develops committee corrective actions in the post-acquisition Full Potential Plan. memandum* Active Ownership 5. We commission an independent ESG review, which identifies ESG risks and opportunities of material character, company's ability to manage ESG and 100% part of makes high level recommendations, from quick wins, through to strategic portfolio actions, with the aim of protecting and creating shareholder value. companies for 6. The ESG review report is presented to the Board of Directors of the portfolio which an company in question. independent ESG review has been commissioned 7. We actively engage and support our portfolio companies with the implementation of high level ESG recommendations, manage ESG risks and 100% of annual opportunities, and create or protect sustainable value. reviews included an ESG section 8. Monitor portfolio companies' sustainability performance through the reporting online platform. Exit 9. Assess the ESG-related contribution to value creation and highlight positive ESG progress throughout the active ownership phase. The ESG review serves as a baseline against which the ESG performance is analysed, and a summary of 'lessons learnt' provided. *Based on the investments in the IK VIII Fund, IK Small Cap I Fund and IK Small Cap II Fund I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 11 Connecting the dots BECOMING A signatory to the UN Global Compact, IK is committed to continuously support the Ten Principles Human Rights Labour of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of • Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Antirespect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the Corruption within the firm and portfolio companies. proclaimed human rights; effective recognition of the right to collective • Principle 2: make sure that they are not bargaining; complicit in human rights abuses. • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-Corruption • Principle 7: Businesses should support a • Principle 10: Businesses should work precautionary approach to environmental against corruption in all its forms, including challenges; extortion and bribery. • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our values WE STRIVE TO create sustainable value for all IK Professionalism Accountability stakeholders by instituting and maintaining high standards of governance and business ethics within We are committed to We are committed to be the Firm and our portfolio companies. Our approach always act with responsible, transparent to create sustainable value is underpinned by IK's competence, diligence, and accountable for all of respect and in an ethical our actions. core values. manner with IK stakeholders. Integrity We are committed to the highest standard of honesty and integrity. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 12 Social commitment Human Rights SUPPORT FOR INDIVIDUAL and collective human rights is a fundamental part of IK's culture. Our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been a significant part of our commitment to social responsibility, which outlines that we will not carry out business with countries and regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known. As part of our RI policy, we will not invest in companies which do not respect internationally proclaimed human rights principles, and have demonstrated a systematic denial of basic human rights. In 2018, we strengthened our commitment to respect human rights by introducing the ethical guidelines for portfolio companies. The policy encourages all portfolio companies to conduct their business with respect for the human rights principles, and support the rights of all individuals independent of gender, race and religion. IK’s team has increased Labour by 30% since 2016. With this growth comes a WE BELIEVE THAT a good working environment and equal opportunities for all are a fundamental right for every employee. responsibility for us to retain As an employer, we are committed to supporting best practices in terms of labour and employment, including equal our talent and provide them opportunities, diversity, and ensuring safety and welfare at work. IK embraces diversity, and is committed to promoting with opportunities and equal opportunities and preventing discriminatory practices from occurring in the workplace. We strive to lead and sustain incentives to grow and excellence by bringing together talented individuals. Our commitment is reflected in our Human Resources policies. develop. We have therefore In compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, IK publishes a transparency statement on steps taken to taken important steps to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not take place in our business, supply chain or our portfolio. strengthen the backbone of Our portfolio companies employ more than 24,000 people. For many of our management teams, sustainability efforts around social justice and working conditions have become a priority. From the start of investment, we our organisation in 2018, encourage our companies to maintain, continuously improve and strive for best social practices and initiatives. including the expansion of Across our portfolio companies, we have a high number of initiatives which have a positive impact on their IK’s HR department employees. These initiatives are focused on ensuring and improving the corporate environment, employees’ health Dorte Wigg, HR Manager and wellbeing, workplace safety, gender composition of workforce, and include training programmes for professional development. 47% of portfolio companies have an 75% of portfolio companies have a equality and diversity policy or statement health and safety policy or statement Klingel Veritas Petroleum Services Acquisition date: July 2018 Acquisition date: October 2013 Country: Germany Country: Netherlands Sector: Industrial goods Sector: Business services ESG-related KPIs: Near accidents, non-reportable ESG-related KPIs: Lost time injury rate, zero major injuries incidents KLINGEL medical metal, a leading manufacturer of metal medical technology VPS is a leading provider of fuel testing and inspection services, working with ship products, has a clear vision on social, environmental and economical owners, managers, charterers and other customers around the world. The Rotterdam responsibility. They recognise the responsibility they have as a German producer laboratory of VPS is a hub of high technology. Hundreds of fuel samples arrive each day and manufacturer of critical components in a globalised world. KLINGEL’s focus to be tested and analysed by skilled technicians. Unpacking and handling the samples has been on managing the supply chain by establishing a comprehensive code of is a critical part of the work and this crucial task is in the hands of VPS employee, conduct to address social and governance issues. Through its commitment to Monique. Efficiency is essential as is good communication with the rest of the team, and ethical supply chain, KLINGEL’s code of conduct applies to all subsidiaries, Monique has proved herself an invaluable addition to the lab, working with speed and suppliers and customers worldwide. It articulates expectations around human accuracy. Monique has a severe hearing impairment and communicates with her colrights, including the use of forced and child labour and all forms of exploitation leagues through lip-reading. The arrival of Monique has helped boost efficiency, providand inhumanity; discrimination against race, gender, ethnic or social origins, ing a dedicated employee to unpack the samples arriving daily. VPS and Monique are a religion, age, disability or sexual orientation; as well as freedom of speech, prime example of how companies of all sizes are recognising the value of all potential opinion and expression. KLINGEL enforces this undertaking by auditing its employees including those with mental or physical disabilities. As well as a creating a suppliers to actively manage potential risks that might exist in the supply chain. more inclusive workplace, the approach has real benefits for the bottom line, tapping into a pool of potentially highly-valuable employees that is often over-looked. Monique was recruited through Particabaan, a Netherlands-based group that helps companies recruit, hire and retain people with disabilities or who have just had a run of bad luck. VPS is already looking to recruit two more employees through Particabaan. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 13 Studienkreis Studienkreis is one of the leading providers of tutoring achieved a high score of customer satisfaction, which services in Germany. Operating a dense network of is tracked on a weekly basis for every location. They Acquisition date: December 2017 Country: Germany over 1,000 learning centres, the company offers small engage with parents and students to receive feedback Sector: Consumer services group tutoring to c.100,000 primary and secondary through both automated evaluation requests as well as ESG KPI: Accidents school students across Germany, covering all personally in focus groups and informal conversations. common subjects as well as special preparatory To prevent any potential misconduct, Studienkreis courses for pre-graduation exams. implemented a proactive zero-tolerance policy and Studienkreis is dedicated to customer satisfaction, clear guidelines for tutors. focusing on attracting more students, providing high In 2018, Studienkreis has been ranked as ‘Service quality services and measuring performance to achieve Champion No.1 of the Private Tutors’ by the largest accountability across the company. Studienkreis service ranking company in Germany.’ Environmental commitment IK SEEKS TO measure the real influence of its operations on the environment in single-use plastic water bottles across offices. In several of our offices, order to promote greater environmental responsibility. employees have been provided with a refillable bottle, which enables us to reduce Over the last few years, climate change and environmental impact have IK's carbon emissions. become key focus areas for IK. This year we extended the scope of our Across our portfolio, we have a number of environmental initiatives that reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting. Our aim in this regard is to reduce waste, energy and water consumption. The environmental initiatives range from: a emissions from IK's own operations and engage on environmental issues in development of sustainable products with reduced carbon footprint, lower water daily operations across all IK offices. We already recycle materials in the consumption and lower levels of waste, implementing energy efficiency measures kitchen, print and copy on both sides of the paper, recycle toner cartridges such as upgrading lighting to LED lights, minimising food waste, usage of from copiers when they are empty across all offices. We also discourage recycled materials in packaging, energy generation from renewable sources. Portfolio companies have an environmental policy or statement 59% Colisée Colisée is a leading provider of nursing home and offered training to all catering staff, Acquisition date: June 2017 homecare services, employing more than 8,000 with an incentive to educate on Country: France people. With more than 115 nursing home efficient food waste Sector: Care facilities and more than 70 home care services management. Food waste ESG KPIs: Lost time injury rate, training per agencies, the group has developed a generates greenhouse emissions, employee, non-reportable injuries, geographical footprint across France, Italy, Spain, as well as affects food availability employee diversity and more recently in China. Colisée already has and cost. Therefore, reducing food waste can an established programme for minimising and generate a triple win for the economy, for food recycling waste. In 2018 primary focus was security and for the environment. The initiative not around food waste reduction. Over the year, only will help Colisée to optimise their Colisée has internalised catering across France. consumption of natural resources, but will also Along with «Cuisine Mode d’Emploi», Colisée have a positive impact on society. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 14 IK's environmental impact IK GHG 2017 Climate change is part of our RI Policy, fully integrated into the investment process and part of the ESG definition. Over the last two years, climate change Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 and GHG emissions have been a primary DIRECT INDIRECT INDIRECT focus of ESG work. As a responsible investor, IK is committed to measuring our GHG emissions and reducing the impact on the climate. IK’s ESG team increasingly devotes time and resources to gain a better understanding of exposure to carbon risk Company Facilities Business Travel Methodology IK's GHG emissions seek to determine the amount of GHG emitted by our own operations, excluding the portfolio investments. The footprint is measured in Company Owned Vehicles Purchased Electricity Waste Disposal carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e), which includes six major greenhouse gases. Emissions: Emissions: Emissions: Not identified 18.96 tCO2e 13,387.26 tCO2e IK’s CO2e emissions are calculated and reported in accordance with the IK’s direct GHG not identified. Purchased electricity; Business travel; Emissions GHG Protocol Corporate standard. The Emissions generated from generated by air, rail and taxi GHG protocol framework splits GHG electricity consumption in  transport operations for business emissions into three scopes. IK’s IK's London office. purpose across all IK offices. emissions fall into Scope 2 and Scope 3, Waste disposal; Emissions which are considered critical to the day to generated from waste streams, day operational activities. such as paper and board and plastic for recycling across all IK offices. Ellab The Danish-based leading supplier of solutions for company’s value chain, and Acquisition date: August 2017 measuring, recording, monitoring and validating included water consumption and Country: Denmark critical parameters of thermal processing carried waste disposal. The waste Sector: Industrial goods out a carbon-footprinting for the first time this emissions come from ESG KPIs: Water consumption, energy ­consumption, gender diversity year. With IK's support, Ellab assessed its Scope combustibles, paper, cardboard, 2 and 3 emissions produced by in-house heat and recycled glass bottles and plastic electricity consumption, water supply and waste bottle containers, metal kegs, batteries and disposal at their headquarters. recycled equipment. Scope 2 emissions capture indirect emissions Assessing GHG emissions from Ellab activities from the generation of purchased electricity, generates a better understanding of its climate steam, heating or cooling. Scope 3 emissions and environmental impacts, and provides an covered indirect emissions that occurred in the insight on potential carbon reductions. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 15 Governance AT IK, WE have a well-established governance framework for managing ESG the company’s key ESG activities and achievements, and report its findings to the matters within the firm and across our portfolio companies. Board in conjunction with the annual review process. IK's ESG team is responsible for promoting RI awareness internally, as well as As an owner of companies with global operations, robust anti-corruption engaging with external stakeholders on ESG matters. The dedicated team seeks policies and regulatory compliance play an essential role in our ability to conduct to communicate with companies in a constructive manner, with the aim to business ethically and with integrity. improve ESG performance and create or protect sustainable value. IK is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in corruption, The IK ESG steering committee consists of IK partners, including the CEO as bribery or extortion. We commit to full compliance with the laws and regulations well as support staff. The committee was formed to reinforce the importance RI of each country in which we operate. plays at IK and provide support, guidance on ESG projects and oversight of IK's Our Compliance Officer is responsible for anti-corruption within IK and our ESG team progress. The ESG steering committee held two meetings this year. Anti-Corruption policy sets out what could be considered bribery in terms of At IK, we also ask new portfolio companies, when appropriate, to form an business operations. The policy covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts as 'Audit & ESG Committee', which reports to the Board of Directors. The committee well, and IK provides staff with regular training and updates. We also have is charged with ensuring that the company has a robust ESG plan and monitors Whistleblowing and Conflicts of Interest policies. the implementation of that plan on an ongoing basis. The committee will review Portfolio companies with a code of conduct 66% Third Bridge Third Bridge is a leading provider of expert calls to corporate values within business. Acquisition date: August 2017 business investors and consultants, covering the As part of their commitment to ethical conduct, Country: United Kingdom US, Asia and Europe. Its core business is to provide Third Bridge implemented the Code of Ethics, which Sector: Business services its clients such as consulting firms, hedge fund applies to all employees globally and is used as a ESG KPIs: Gender ratio at senior managemanagers and private equity houses with relevant core value of integrity. In 2018, Third Bridge ment level, attempted data security experts to assist with their due diligence work. published its Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking breaches, compliance incidents Third Bridge is committed to integrity and good Statement in accordance with the Modern Slavery governance, which have been built into the DNA of Act of 2015, declaring their zero tolerance of any the company. They believe the company has a duty form of modern slavery. to demonstrate the highest standards of business conduct and behaviour, continually embedding I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 16 Our extended commitment: IKARE IK Aid and Relief Enterprise (IKARE Ltd) is the venture philanthropy arm of IK Investment Partners. Founded and supported by IK Investment Partners, IKARE uses venture philanthropy principles to make a positive long-term impact ENGAGING IN PHILANTHROPY has been an integral part of IK’s culture since the firm concentrated number of strong social entrepreneurs to assist with developing, was founded in 1989. But, as IK developed, the partners wanted to adopt a more testing, fine-tuning and de-risking innovative models for sustainably dealing with structured approach to charitable donations and link them more closely to the some of the root causes of poverty. IKARE’s focus is on strengthening health firm's core business. They wanted to make a difference, federate staff and leave infrastructures, thereby reducing gaps in health services delivery as well as the something sustainable behind. That is why IKARE was set up as an independent capacity of its investees, so that more and sustained impact can be delivered on charity, imbued with the principles of venture philanthropy. IKARE sees its role as the ground. Local engagement and gradual ownership are core to this work. In so a catalyst for change, working closely together, over a number of years, with a doing, IKARE also lays the foundations for scaling. 2017 IKARE, Shifo and other Partners 2013 embark on piloting MyChild Solutions in 2 Districts of the Gambia under the 2015 name “Every Child Counts” 2006 IKARE with former portfolio company, Ceva, sponsors ‘Cows against Malaria’ study, IKARE works with the Shifo Foundation to test conducted by a group of researchers from how the MyChild System could be adapted to Liverpool University and the London School IKARE launched, mainly focusing work in a low resource setting, which leads to of Hygiene on ‘Stamp Out Sleeping the development of the Smart Paper based sickness’ in Uganda MyChild Solutions 2014 2009 IKARE invests in MYC4 micro IKARE embarks on the Kampala Slums WASH initiative together with the Students Support Philanthropy 2016 The Bwaise WASH pilot Programme (SSPP) financing platform, providing loans launched in co-operation to small businesses in Africa with the target communities and their local leadership I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 17 MyChild Solutions THE SMARTPAPER VERSION of MyChild Solutions developed for low resource settings and tested by IKARE and Shifo together with the local Health Authority in the Dokolo District in Northern Uganda, is a user-friendly and cost-effective platform to help ensure, amongst other, that no child dies or suffers from preventable diseases. This Health Management Information System (HMIS) tool for registering and monitoring children under 5 helps identify gaps in the health services delivery at individual, health centre, district and national level. While improving on data quality it also significantly reduces the time spent by health workers on administration, instead allowing them to spend more time on families with children for preventative health care. When the Dokolo pilot came to a halt in September 2017, 12,560 children had been registered and 4,423 were fully immunized. During 2018 the Ugandan Ministry of Health decided to include Shifo’s MyChild Solutions in its trials for replacing its current HMIS system for Mother and Child Health. As part of these trials IKARE is funding the implementation in the Mukono district. In 2016, The Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) selected Shifo as a pacesetter for their innovation platform, INFUSE, which scales up tried and tested innovations to improve vaccine coverage. In order to support more innovations like MyChild Solutions, the 2018 INFUSE theme is registration and verification of identity. During the summer of 2018 GAVI further announced that they are contributing funding and expertise to the Every Child Counts programme launched in the Gambia. Initial funding from IKARE and partners Action Aid International The Gambia, The Swedish Postcode Foundation and the af Jochnick Foundation was doubled by the Dutch government via GAVI’s Matching Fund to reach a total of €1.8 million. Between April 1, when the Every Child Counts programme was launched in the Gambia, and December 31, 2017, 14,351 children had been registered, 7, 250 sms reminders sent and 3,060 children had been fully immunised. Kampala Slums Wash initiative IN 2014, THE Ugandan Students Support Philanthropy Programme (SSPP) undertook an experimental water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) intervention in the Kikoni slum areas of Kampala. Supported and mentored by IKARE and local partner, High Heights Services, the SSPP achieved considerable success – so much so that the programme attracted the attention of the Kampala City Council Authority and Ministry of Lands. The SSPP were then asked to undertake a slightly larger pilot in the Bwaise slum, home to an estimated 90,000 people. This pilot was launched in October 2016, aiming to improve cleanliness at water sources and reduce the frequency of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera and typhoid. The initial outcome of the pilot was very positive. Communities were highly engaged in keeping the three selected water sources clean and the 20 youth led households provided with Solvatten units reported an average 70% reduction in diarrhoea cases. To further strengthen the outcomes of this pilot and ensure a longer-term sustainable impact, IKARE agreed to undertake a post-pilot programme with the SSPP. This programme, kick-started in April 2017, focuses on building awareness around the importance of ‘WASH’ through a range of initiatives, including drama groups and schools' engagement. In parallel, IKARE provided non-financial support to strengthen accounting and reporting capacity at SSPP and assessing the sustainability and scalability of different business plans aiming at securing a sustainability platform for the SSPP. The Power of Partnerships UGANDA IS BUT one of 38 countries in sub-Saharan Africa affected by human (HAT) and animal (Nagana) sleeping sickness. But it is also the only one to host both varieties of the parasites that lethally affect humans, unless treated. Areas endemic to the disease are heavily infested with tsetse flies. Over the past 100 years, numerous efforts have been undertaken to control the disease but new epidemics have regularly blown up after the emergency interventions have ceased. Using insecticide sprayed cattle as “live bait” for tsetse, the 3 V Vets Network, funded by IKARE as a follow-on from the Stamp Out Sleeping Sickness (SOS) campaign which it helped to launch in 2006, has created community engagement and sustainable control. In October 2017, the Ugandan Trypanosomiasis Control Council (UTCC) and its executive arm COCTU celebrated their Silver Jubilee, noting that the WHO had declared HAT in Uganda to be on a steady course towards elimination. As IKARE Executive Director Anne Holm Rannaleet explains: ”Slowly, but surely our joint efforts over the last 10 plus years are paying off and we can see a steady lowering of the Rhodesiense form of Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), which we have been specifically targeting in the Dokolo district, from close to 500 cases in 2006 to only 3 cases so far reported in 2018.” I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 018 18 IK Investment Partners The Adelphi 1-11 John Adam Street London WC2N 6HT United Kingdom T: +44 20 7304 4300 W: www.ikinvest.com Communications & ESG Contact: Mikaela Murekian Director Communications & ESG E: mikaela.murekian@ikinvest.com T: +44 20 7304 7134 Contact: Alina Benyaminova ESG Coordinator E: alina.benyaminova@ikinvest.com T: +44 20 7304 7136 Disclaimer The purpose of the Communication on Progress report (CoP) is limited to IK Investment Partners Limited’s (the “Comexpress or implied, are made as to the accuracy or completeness of any information included herein. The material in pany”) commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative as a signatory. The report contains information in regard to the this report is provided for information purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on implementation of the UN Global Compact principles, and is based on information currently available to the Company you. This report is intended to provide data and analysis, however, should not be relied upon as investment advice. It at the time that this document was produced. While IK exercises reasonable care to ensure that all information inis for reference only and is not intended as a commercial offer, solicitation, public advertisement or recommendation cluded in this report is accurate and is obtained from sources believed to be reliable, no representations or warranties to buy or sell any investment. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S
