SUSTAINABILITY 2017 Chapter 4 Registration Document 4 CHAPTER 226 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Summary 4.1 ESSILOR’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABLE 4.5. OPTIMIZING THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 255 DEVELOPMENT 229 4.5.1 Strengthening environmental management 255 4.1.1 The value chain and stakeholders 229 4.5.2 Reducing water use 256 4.1.2 Essilor’s sustainable development priorities 231 4.5.3 Energy efficiency in production and distribution 259 4.1.3 Sustainable development strategy driven by our 4.5.4 A limited carbon footprint 260 Group Mission 233 4.5.5 A circular economy approach to raw material 4.1.4 Main objectives for 2020 234 optimization and waste management 264 4.2 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF 4.6 WORKING WITH SOCIETY 266 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 235 4.6.1 Fair business practices 266 4.2.1 The CSR Committee 235 4.6.2 The Group’s commitment and vigilant approach to 4.2.2 The Sustainable Development department 235 human rights 267 4.2.3 Organization of non-financial reporting 236 4.6.3 Sustainable purchasing in supplier relations 268 4.6.4 Sustainable product marketing 269 4.3 IMPROVING LIVES BY IMPROVING SIGHT 237 4.6.5 Direct and indirect socioeconomic contribution 270 4.3.1 Raising awareness of the importance of good vision 238 4.7 METHODOLOGY NOTE & CORRESPONDENCE 4.3.2 Sustainable innovation for customers’ current and TABLES 271 future needs 238 4.3.3 Developing inclusive business models 240 4.7.1 Methodology note 271 4.3.4 Strategic Giving 241 4.7.2 Correspondence table for the criteria of the Grenelle 2 law 272 4.4. CARING FOR AND ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE 243 4.7.3 Correspondence table for the Guidelines of the GRI, SDGs and UNGC 274 4.4.1 Ensuring health and safety with a quality working environment 246 4.8 REPORT BY THE STATUTORY AUDITOR, 4.4.2 Training and the development of skills and talent 248 APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON 4.4.3 Employee integration and inclusion of all forms of THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, diversity 251 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 4.4.4 Employee shareholding & management/employee INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 279 consultation 253 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 227 IN BRIEF FOREWORD “Our Mission as the world’s leader in ophthalmic optics is to improve lives by improving sight. This purpose, which has driven all of the Company’s decisions since its creation in 1848, represents both an opportunity and a social responsibility for the Group. Over half the world’s population needs some form of vision correction – making poor vision the world’s most widespread disability. This is why it is our ambition to eradicate poor vision within one generation. To support this ambition, Essilor relies on its fundamentals – namely the development of its long-standing and growing employee shareholding, a unique governance in which its employee shareholders actively participate and our principles and values – and a long-term commitment to sustainable development. Our 67,000 employees are driven by the desire to contribute to an evolving society faced with social and environmental issues. Constantly innovating, engaging with all our stakeholders, reducing our environmental footprint, continuing to develop our inclusive business models and philanthropic initiatives, and promoting employee shareholding are some of the priority actions of our responsible commitment. This year, we have made significant progress to continue to create shared value. In the last 4 years, more than 14 million people previously excluded from vision health care gained access to a pair of eyeglasses; and 54% of our employees are now Group shareholders. Moreover, we have pursued our initiatives in key areas that serve the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, such as Human Rights, water management or adapting to climate change, and we have made progress in the first ten targets of our “2020 roadmap” presented in detail in this document. We are proud that our approach has been recognized by the most demanding non-financial assessment bodies. In 2017, Essilor was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World & Europe Indices (DJSI); joined the Vigeo Europe 100 Index; and was included in the CDP “Water A List” for our ambitious commitment to optimizing the use and security of water resources. For all of these reasons, I am pleased to renew our long-term commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, both in our strategy and in our day-to-day operations, and to share an annual review of our progress in this chapter of the 2017 Registration Document.” Hubert Sagnières Chairman and Chief Executive Officer At December 31, 2017, Essilor was listed on the following non-financial indices: DJSI World & Europe, MSCI World ESG & SRI and World Low Carbon Leader, FTSE4Good, STOXX Global ESG Leaders, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120, ECPI indices and Ethibel Excellence & Pioneer. Essilor also participates voluntarily in the disclosure of CDP, an international, independent non-profit organization that assesses companies’ efforts to measure and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and water footprint. In 2017, the CDP recognized the continuous progress Essilor has been making in these areas, awarding it an Arating for its response to climate change and an A rating for water management. With the highest score, the Group appeared for the first time on the “Water A List” which comprises of 73 companies making ambitious commitments to optimizing water use and improving the security of water resources. US magazine Forbes also ranked Essilor amongst the World’s Most Innovative 100 Companies for the seventh year running. 228 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Essilor’s approach to sustainable development INTRODUCTION 4.1 Essilor’s approach to sustainable development 4.1.1 The value chain and stakeholders Essilor’s approach to sustainable development is based on consideration of the environmental, social and societal impacts of its business activities on the various stakeholders along the value chain. Value chain Throughout the Essilor value chain, from product design to º optical retailers and chains: the Group supplies optical marketing, the Group’s business activities impact on the retailers and chains in over 100 countries and sells optical environment and on society at large. The nature and products online (contact lenses, prescription spectacles magnitude of these impacts differ according to the Group’s five main business activities: and sunglasses) through several local websites, serving a rapidly expanding global distribution channel. Information security, data protection and product promotion have been 4 º production plants: the Group has 34 production plants in 17 countries. Each year, they produce more than 500 million identified as major issues for the Group; lenses via lens polymerization or resin injection moulding. º Operational, R&D and Administrative Divisions: a limited The production plants account for the majority of direct portion of the Group’s employees work in the registered environmental impacts due to of the chemical products offices, R&D centers and Operational and Administrative and raw materials that they use, the energy they consume, Divisions. While the social impact of these facilities is very the emissions they generate and the waste they produce. significant, the environmental impact is low (energy from Given the concentration of environmental impacts, Essilor buildings, paper, greenhouse gas emissions associated with places the emphasis on the management of water and business travel, electrical and electronic waste, etc.). energy and the processing of waste, as well as on See Section 1.3.1.3 of this document. occupational health and safety measures; º distribution centers: Essilor has 14 distribution centers in 12 countries. Situated close to manufacturing units, the role of these centers is to coordinate the logistics flows between Ecosystem suppliers and customers. Most of the impacts of these centers are therefore felt in terms of greenhouse gas Essilor has daily interaction with a whole host of emissions from transportation (air and road freight, etc.). stakeholders throughout the world. Engaging with them is Furthermore, the high number of employees and the nature therefore at the heart of the Group’s sustainable of their activities, requires extreme vigilance in terms of development strategy. Essilor strives to understand each occupational health and safety; component of its value chain and to adapt to the constant evolution of its ecosystem. As the significance and handling º prescription laboratories: the Group has 481 laboratories, of social and environmental issues differ between countries, edging facilities and local distribution centers which are relations with stakeholders are generally managed locally, major sources of local employment. As the final link in the under the responsibility of the senior management of the value chain, surfacing and coating finished lenses before legal entities. Essilor has introduced a “guide to partnership” they are marketed to professional customers, prescription for its business partners that formalizes Essilor’s role and laboratories are crucial for ensuring product quality and responsibilities and those of the partner, facilitating conformity. The environmental footprint of the prescription transparent and effective working relations. Moreover, all laboratories is fragmented and limited, and derives employees are actively encouraged to apply the Essilor primarily from the use of chemical products and the Principles and Values in their interactions with stakeholders. consumption of energy and water; ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 229 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Essilor’s approach to sustainable development Depending on the situation, interactions between stakeholders º to contribute to growth via partnership projects, and Essilor may serve a range of different purposes: particularly in the fields of health and the environment: º to listen, by setting up a consultation process for the support for patients’ associations, humanitarian aid purpose of anticipating business developments, the market programs and partnerships with universities. and regulations, and also manage risks and identify Stakeholder relations are therefore key for the Group, as opportunities; they bring and create positive impacts. The new issues º to hold discussions to involve stakeholders in strategic arising from their needs and viewpoints fuel the Group’s decisions: customer satisfaction surveys, employee opinion strategy and operations. Essilor is aware of what is at stake surveys, organization of forums, training sessions, etc.; and strives for continuous improvement to maintain a relationship of trust with its stakeholders. The Group º to inform, by providing reliable factual data using different documents and addresses its stakeholders’ main concerns. kinds of communication methods made available to the The table below presents the key points. relevant stakeholders (brochures, website, annual reviews, questionnaire responses, various requests, etc.); Main stakeholders Main issues Employees & representative organizations Quality of working conditions Recruitment/Attracting and retaining talent Skills development Equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion Business partners Shared commitment to social and environmental concerns Collaboration on innovation and development Integrity in business relations Clients & Prescribers Offering high quality, innovative products Responsible marketing/Transparency and validation of the benefits of Essilor lenses Integrity in business relations Data protection Sustainable procurement Consumers Product quality and efficiency Responsible marketing Products meeting new visual health needs related to societal trends (digitalization, urbanization, etc.) Data protection Shareholders, investors and rating agencies Governance Transparency and evaluation of non-financial activity Management of CSR risks Suppliers Integrity in business and adherence to regulations Constructive collaboration/Co-innovation Sustainable procurement & supplier CSR audit NGOs and consumer organizations Dialogue & Partnership Communication – Transparency (on social initiatives, environmental footprint, product performance, etc.) Sponsorship & philanthropy Educational institutions Cooperation for research and innovation Attracting and developing talent Public authorities & governments Social and economic impact Contribution to visual health and the inclusive economy Fair business practices Dialogue & Education Local Communities Quality of life: provide quality vision for all Social and economic impact (jobs, support for the local economy and inclusive business) Raising awareness 230 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Essilor’s approach to sustainable development 4.1.2 Essilor’s sustainable development priorities Materiality assessment The Group defines and develops its sustainable development For the past two years, regulatory changes and feedback strategy using a materiality assessment, so that it can from stakeholders (key account customers, investors, new continually assess and prioritize stakeholder requirements, UN development goals, etc.) have confirmed the priority and identify new risks and opportunities related to social and strategic dimensions of initiatives which directly aim to fulfil environmental issues, focus non-financial reporting and the Group’s Mission, lead to a greater focus on sustainable publications on major issues and ensure the Group’s procurement and the circular economy in the wider sense reporting complies with international standards. (see Section 4.5.5), and highlighted two major themes: climate change (see Section 4.5.4), and human rights (see 4.6.2). The Group has updated the materiality matrix below based on this information. Strategic topics • Awareness & access to quality vision care solutions • Inclusive Business & BoP • Strategic Partnership • Innovation and R&D • Human capital development 4 & talent attraction Priority topics • Water use • Energy Efficiency • Sustainable procurement Stakeholders perspective • Climate Change adaptation & mitigation • Diversity & Inclusion • Responsible Marketing • Resource & waste Core topics • Safety & well-being • Customer Relationship • Stakeholder dialogue Management (CRM) • Human Rights • Governance • Employee shareholding • Product Quality management • Local economic development • Compliance & business ethics Impact business Note: Strategic: key themes linked to the development of Essilor business model. Priority: key subjects for Essilor’s short, medium and long term value creation. Core: pillars of Essilor’s business culture. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 231 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Essilor’s approach to sustainable development UN Sustainable Development Goals At the end of 2015, 193 countries had adopted the United Essilor is fully involved in this effort through its Mission. The Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This Group has therefore assessed its contribution by mapping 13 Agenda has 17 core goals and 169 targets. The Sustainable SDGs according to two dimensions: the themes in its Development Goals (SDGs), which entered into force in 2016, sustainable development program (see materiality matrix) are a global call for action to eradicate poverty, protect the and its value chain. planet and ensure prosperity for all. The involvement of civil In 2017, Essilor published a specific report outlining the society, the private sector and ordinary citizens is crucial to action plans and commitments it has entered into for each of the success of these goals. the 13 selected SDGs. See Section “Sustainability” and “Mission” on www.essilor.com. STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS STRATEGIC/HIGHEST CONTRIBUTION AWARENESS 1 ACCES TO QUALITY VISION CARE SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE WATER USE INNOVATION TALENT SOURCING: USE & DISCHARGE & R&D MANAGEMENT OF CHEMICALS INVESMENTS / RAW MATERIAL IMPACT ON EXTRACTION WATER STRESS AREAS INCLUSIF BUSINESS, ESSILOR MATERIALITY ANALYSIS ADVOCACY & PHILANTHROPY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT (ENERGY EFFICIENCY, WASTE, PRIORITY/CONTRIBUTION CARBON FOOTPRINT) LOCAL PRODUCT END ECONOMIC OF LIFE IMPACT ON SUPPLIERS PROMOTION OF RESPONSIBLE HUMAN RIGHTS ECONOMIC PROMOTION OF CONSUMPTION/ IMPACTS ALONG DEVELOPMENT DIVERSITY & INCLUSION RESPONSIBLE THE VALUE CHAIN MARKETING SAFE & HEALTHY WORKING CONDITIONS COMPLIANCE CORE BUSINESS ETHICS HUMAN RIGHTS RAW MATERIAL PRODUCTION PRESCRIPTION DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTION FINAL SUPPLIERS PLANTS LABORATORIES CENTERS CHANNELS CUSTOMERS 232 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Essilor’s approach to sustainable development 4.1.3 Sustainable development strategy driven by our Group Mission On the basis of the materiality assessment, supplemented by an analysis of the Group’s contribution to the SDGs, Essilor has strengthened its sustainable development strategy to serve the Group’s Mission according to three supporting pillars, by specifying the actions it will take in certain key areas (see details on www.essilor.com/en/sustainability): Group Mission: Improve lives by improving sight The Group is committed to the global challenge of helping to 2. OPTIMIZING THE ENVIRONMENTAL correct, protect and prevent risks to the visual health of the FOOTPRINT planet’s 7.4 billion inhabitants. To this end, Essilor has identified four key focus areas: raising awareness, product Despite an environmental footprint that is fragmented and and service innovation, inclusive business and strategic limited in comparison to industrial processing activities, giving. See Section 4.3 of this document. Essilor strives to reduce its impacts. By continuously improving environmental management processes, the work focuses on reducing water use, improving energy efficiency, 1. CARING FOR AND ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE reducing the carbon footprint and adapting to climate The Group’s employees are the leading players in and change; and finally, reducing and recovering waste. See contributors to Essilor’s sustainable development. The Section 4.5 of this document. Group’s employee policy focuses on four areas: ensuring employee health and safety and providing quality working 3. WORKING WITH SOCIETY conditions; training, developing skills and talent; integrating employees and all forms of diversity; and finally, promoting As a leader in its sector, the Group has made a commitment employee shareholding along with their participation in the governance and employee consultation through social to introducing preventive and vigilance mechanisms to ensure respect for human rights and the rules of integrity in the conduct of business. Essilor joins forces with its suppliers 4 dialogue. See Section 4.4 of this document. in its approach to sustainable development via a policy of sustainable procurement and also gets involved with local communities to contribute to their development. Furthermore, Essilor takes care to market products with stated levels of quality and performance that meet customers’ needs most effectively. See Section 4.6 of this document. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 233 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Essilor’s approach to sustainable development 4.1.4 Main objectives for 2020 Essilor has defined a “2020 roadmap” with specific internal objectives and is working on all levers of employee engagement. This approach enables the entire Group to be involved, with building of momentum, measuring of impacts and monitoring of progress. The Group published in 2017 the ten main objectives shown in the table below: Progress % of progress to Aims Ambition Objectives for 2020 made target Creating wearers Bring tangible social and 1 Improve the lives of 50 million 13.4 million 27% economic benefits to individuals “at the base of the individuals and their pyramid”(a) communities: “‘improving (cumulative, reference year 2013) lives by improving sight” 2 Create 25,000 primary vision care 5,718 23% providers (cumulative, reference year 2013) 3 Invest €30 million in philanthropic 30 million + 163% visual health programs additional (reference year 2014) €19 million Optimizing Contribute to tackle 4 Reduce water intensity by 20% -10% 50% environmental climate change and its compared to 2015 baseline(b) footprint impacts through sustainable management 5 Reduce energy intensity by 15% -3% 20% of energy and water compared to 2015 baseline resources Caring for and Engage employees in the 6 Decrease by 30% work-related injury -14% 47% engaging our sustainable growth of frequency rate (compared to a 2015 people our business & ensure a baseline) towards a zero accident goal safe and rewarding working environment 7 Give 100% of employees access to 60% 60% Essilor University online training platform 8 35% of employees as shareholders, 54% 154% with a longer-term ambition of 50% Working with Lead sustainable 9 100% of strategic suppliers receive 92% 92% our society business practices in our external CSR audit industry through 10 100% of preferred suppliers 57% 57% responsible sourcing and acknowledge Essilor’s Supplier Charter procurement (a) “Base of the pyramid” refers to underprivileged and high-risk populations characterized by high rates of poverty, living on less than $2.50 a day. (b) Objectives measured on each good lens produced by a selection of the upstream plants with the highest environmental footprint. In addition, Essilor’s compensation policy aims to contribute to the achievement of the Group’s objectives and the deployment of its Mission: improving lives by improving sight. Hence, in 2017, Essilor introduced specific criteria linked to its Mission, its Principles & Values and its sustainable development program in calculating the annual variable salary component of the members of the Management Committee and the business committees, as well as the key managers in each entity of the Group. 234 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Governance and management of sustainable development 4.2 Governance and management of sustainable development 4.2.1 The CSR Committee 4.2.2 The Sustainable Development Set up in 2013, the CSR Committee reports directly to the Board of Directors. It is chaired by an Independent Director department and comprises three members (the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and two Directors). The Chief Mission Officer is also invited to attend meetings as a guest. Essilor has chosen strong management support to drive environmental, social and corporate governance challenges. The CSR Committee met three times in 2017, with an Accordingly, the Sustainable Development department attendance rate of 100%. In its supervisory role, it was reports to the Chief Mission Officer, who in turn reports consulted primarily on: directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. º the progress of the new innovative, inclusive The role of the Sustainable Development department is to socio-economic models, through the 2.5 New Vision coordinate the initiatives implemented within the various Generation entity, the philanthropy and all functional departments (Environment, Health and Safety, awareness-raising initiatives; R&D, Human Resources, Marketing, etc.) and the three main º review of the Group’s sustainable development roadmap geographical areas: North America, Europe and the rest of and the key measures to be implemented; the world (Latin America, Asia, Middle East, Russia & Africa), º evaluation of the direct and indirect economic and societal impacts of Mission activities; with the following main responsibilities to: º define and deploy the Group’s Sustainable Development 4 º changes in the way Essilor’s non-financial performance is program; perceived by recognized raters; º steer non-financial reporting and lead the community of º assessment of the main CSR risks; correspondents within various countries and functions; º review of the reports published regarding sustainability º provide expertise to Group entities in their deliberations on topics, particularly as regards current regulatory sustainability, the implementation of associated action obligations. plans and respond to questions from key accounts or other stakeholders; See Section 2.1.2.6 of this document. º communicate Essilor’s initiatives, contribute to the public debate on sustainable development challenges and engage in dialogue with stakeholders; º engage employees in the approach to sustainable development through training and employee recognition measures (e.g. EHS Awards). The Sustainable Development department oversees a Global Steering Committee that brings together all the major functional and geographic divisions to coordinate the deployment of the Group’s sustainable development roadmap, report best practices and discuss cross-functional issues (e.g. Human rights, non-financial reporting, climate change, etc.). The Sustainable Development department is also regularly consulted by the CSR Committee. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 235 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Governance and management of sustainable development 4.2.3 Organization of non-financial reporting The aim of non-financial reporting is to provide Essilor with a tool for managing and measuring the effectiveness of its Scope of reporting sustainable development programme, as well as to ensure compliance with Article 225 of the French Grenelle 2 law and The reference scope of reporting is currently all Essilor with the principal sustainability reporting standards. This entities and subsidiaries that are within the Group financial year, the Group has begun to prepare for changes to its consolidation scope and have been in the Group for more non-financial reporting to apply European Directive than one year. Against a backdrop of strong growth, the no. 2014/94, to be implemented in France in 2018 in Group is continuing to gradually integrate recent financially accordance with decree no. 2017-1265, voted in August 2017. consolidated companies to its non-financial reporting scope. This year, by including in particular the recently-acquired entities, the non-financial reporting covers 100%(1) of the Organization and protocol Group entities, exceeding its commitment to reach a target of 85% in 2017. The coverage rate for each indicator is specified in the disclosure for each indicator. See Section 4.7 Essilor collects environmental, social and societal data using of this document. a software application named “Sustainability” that replicates the structure of the Group’s unified financial reporting system. “Sustainability” has similar procedures for consolidating financial information and a specific glossary Reporting period outlining the indicators and their definitions. A network of contributors from a range of disciplines (human resources, To optimize the organization, coordination and integration of environment-health-safety, etc.) reports information, which is financial and non-financial reports, Essilor collected the reviewed by the Finance departments of each entity then majority of its social, environmental and societal information checked and consolidated at Group level by the Sustainable over a period of 12 months from October 1, 2016 to Development Department. September 30, 2017. However, certain information was A non-financial reporting campaign is organized annually to collected during the calendar year from January 1, 2017 to consolidate data from different entities. Given the data December 31, 2017; this is followed in the text or the collection process and the key performance indicators have indicator tables by a superscript at sign (@). not been changed (same themes and structure) in 2017, the reporting protocol has been improved (more details and specific examples for each indicator, easier to use, etc.) and Compliance and standards refined to take into account regulatory changes and stakeholder expectations. In addition, the reporting protocol Essilor has made public its social, environmental and societal is now available in five languages: French, Chinese, English, information since 2002, in accordance with the French NRE Portuguese and Spanish, to facilitate the work of subsidiary law of May 2001. Since the 2012 fiscal year, the Group has teams and improve data quality. See Section 4.7 of this complied with Article 225 of the French Grenelle 2 law. Next document. year, the Group will follow the principles defined by decree no. 2017-1265 concerning transposition into French law of the European directive on non-financial reporting. Finally, Essilor continues to follow the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. See Section 4.7 of this document. The information presented in this chapter has been reviewed by PwC, an independent third-party organization, in accordance with the regulations resulting from Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 law. See in Section 4.8 of this document the Report of the Independent Third-Party Organization for further details. (1) Four entities representing less than 100 employees (0.01%) were exempted from non-financial reporting in 2017 for the following reasons: one entity in Miami was affected by hurricane Irma and three entities stopped their activity at the end of 2017. Given the specific cases above, Essilor considers that the 2017 non-financial reporting covers 100% of the Group’s entities and workforce. 236 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Improving lives by improving sight ESSILOR MISSION 4.3 Improving lives by improving sight Providing everyone, everywhere, with access to quality The Mission to improve lives by improving sight drives the vision care is Essilor’s biggest challenge in terms of Group to continue its efforts to help even more of the sustainable development. This challenge lies at the planet’s 7.4 billion people, 2.5 billion of whom suffer from crossroads between the Group’s economic activity and its poor vision and still do not have access to visual correction. social contribution through the major positive impact on Essilor designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of quality of life as a result of better vision. solutions to correct, protect and prevent visual health risks. IMPROVING LIVES BY IMPROVING SIGHT 2 BILLION 2.5 BILLION 7.4 BILLION Deserve ever better Suffer from uncorrected poor vision Need to protect their vision vision correction 4 Product Leadership Best technologies Sunglasses Operational excellence 2.5 New Vision Generation Blue Light Consumer insights & ECP solutions Philantropy UV protection Solutions for myopia Solutions for myopia Safety Eyewear Innovation (products, Services, Business Models…) Awareness and Access (Consumer marketing, Vision Impact Institute, New distribution channels) Strong governance and committed teams Essilor’s actions on four fronts help to fulfil this Mission: 1) make as many people as possible aware of the importance of good vision; 2) innovate responsibly for current and future customer needs; 3) develop inclusive business models; and lastly, 4) drive strategic giving initiatives. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 237 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Improving lives by improving sight make good vision a global priority. It analyses and publishes 4.3.1 Raising awareness the results of relevant scientific studies and recommends changes to public health policy. of the importance The Institute is steered by a consultative committee with of good vision four independent members, focusing on two objectives: accelerate the production of new studies on visual health, particularly in areas where data is missing, and reach a wider The main reason for large numbers of people lacking the audience to make people aware of these issues. visual correction they need can be primarily explained by a Since it was founded, the Institute has launched a website – lack of awareness of vision problems. Many people have www.visionimpactinstitute.org – providing a single database never had an eyesight test, or have never been able to see of 250 peer-reviewed reports and studies to prove the need properly in their life. for advances in visual correction and visual health in general. To address this, Essilor is investing locally, nationally and This year, 86 new studies were published and the website internationally to raise awareness of the importance of visual was translated into a new language, French, in addition to health and of having regular eyesight tests. Different the English, Chinese, Spanish and Portuguese versions initiatives are taken: already available. º the global “Put Vision First ™ ” campaign. On World Sight In 2017 the Institute was actively engaged in raising Day 2017, Essilor highlighted the importance of complete, awareness among the global population of the importance of visual health. The following two examples illustrate its work: regular eyesight tests in over 50 countries and provided an online eyesight test as a first step for checking vision; º in India, the Observatory supported media events to foster º the global partnership with Fédération Internationale de dialogue with the ministries to implement awareness-raising programs for students, motorists and l’Automobile (International Automobile Federation). public transport drivers; Launched in 2017, this partnership aims to highlight good vision as an essential factor in road safety as part of the º in the United States, the Observatory created a FIA’s “Action for Road Safety” campaign. “Check your multi-stakeholder partnership, “Kids See: Success”, so that eyesight” is now one of the FIA’s golden rules, along with every child entering nursery school can have their eyesight other key risk factors such as speed, alcohol and safety tested. belts (e.g. “Never drink and drive”, “Buckle up”, etc.). Road safety continues to be a key focus area for the Group, with particular efforts in India which attracted government support; 4.3.2 Sustainable innovation º national public awareness-raising campaigns, such as “Think About Your Eyes™” in the United States are for customers’ current organized in partnership with industry players and our stakeholders; and future needs º creation of consumer information websites to educate people about the importance of regular eyesight tests, protecting their eyes from damage caused by UV light (e.g. Innovation at Essilor www.eyes-and-sun.com) and from blue light, and how to choose frames to suit their face (e.g. Innovation is the linchpin of the Group’s growth strategy and www.mavuemeslunettes.fr); central to Essilor’s model. It is a major differentiating factor and applies to products, services, business models and º regular eye exam campaigns, arranged locally by Essilor governance structure. As such, it characterizes the unique subsidiaries or by the Group’s philanthropic organizations; way the Group carries out its Mission. º support for initiatives to gather statistical data on the Optical lenses are high-technology products. Although social and economic impact of poor vision to obtain innovation is essential, it is also very important to continue government support to invest in visual health improvement working to improve existing solutions. This makes it possible programs. Since 2016, Essilor has been part of the to respond to all new needs which arise as a result of Eyelliance coalition and has been involved in drafting the demographic and lifestyle changes. World Economic Forum’s Report, “Eyeglasses for Global Development: bridging the Visual Divide”. This report Each year, Essilor devotes a significant part of its revenue for demonstrated that investing in access to vision correction Research and Innovation, so that it can respond to market would lead to considerable gains in terms of economic and trends in visual health driven by several major social trends social development, entirely in line with the SDGs. (ageing population, use of digital technology, new “Base of the Pyramid”, or BoP, consumers, etc.). In 2017, this In 2012, Essilor lent its support to the founding of the Vision amounted to €217 million before deduction of research tax Impact Institute. The aim is to raise public awareness of the credits. importance of correcting and protecting eyesight and to 238 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Improving lives by improving sight the launch of the innovation. Essilor has forged over twenty Meeting consumer expectations partnerships with universities and public research bodies: Institut de la Vision in Paris, CNRS, Inserm, Polytechnique Innovation is everywhere within the Group, and it is now Montreal, Universities of Shanghai and Wenzhou in China, taking on new forms, combining technologies with an etc. Furthermore, the Group makes use of open innovation understanding of the whole range of consumer needs: across such as the See Change Challenge, which was launched by the following three dimensions: visual correction, eye BoP innovation Lab at the end of 2016. See Section 4.3.3 of protection and prevention of eye disease. this document; Essilor defines its innovation priorities by listening to º Eco-designed. Essilor endeavors to develop products with consumers and paying attention to their unmet and specific an ever-decreasing impact on the environment by needs, as well as their lifestyles. analyzing the product’s life cycle, favoring eco-design, In order to meet this challenge, marketing and innovation are working with its subcontractors (purchasing raw materials inseparable. From the very beginning, the Group’s Centers with less environmental impact, etc.) and optimizing for Innovation and Technology work in direct contact with production processes. For example: the markets. The centers detect “weak spots” by observing º Essilor now only promotes lighter, more resistant and technology and competitors. Later on, researchers work with more environmentally-friendly corrective lenses that are the marketing teams and the “Global Engineering” manufactured from thermosetting resins or Department to quickly make innovations available to thermoplastic materials, consumers. º the Costa brand has also implemented a Kick Plastic In order to place the consumer at the very heart of the initiative, which involves using bio-sourced resins or innovation process, Essilor created five “roadmaps” for recycled materials, different consumer types, each of which constitutes a specific market for the Company: º in 2017, the online optical group Clearly launched a new brand of environmentally-responsible glasses called º Kids & teens; “Main + Central”. The frames are made of a highly º Young adults; durable and biodegradable material called “Natura”, º Mid-life; which can be returned to the Company for recycling º Seniors; º Next Generation Consumers. when customers want to change their style. Furthermore, no new chemical component requiring 4 toxicology tests is used in the Group’s innovations. Lastly, Each “roadmap” is made up of multidisciplinary teams and Essilor does not conduct any tests on animals; uses Design Thinking methods to accelerate the ideation and º Transparent. To guide end users in their choices as innovation process. effectively as possible, Essilor is careful to provide high quality, relevant information on new products. By working with visual health professionals, training them and A global organization providing them with technical documentation and informative materials, Essilor ensures that its products are At Essilor, R&D is structured around four Centers for promoted in a compliant way. See Section 4.6.4 of this Innovation & Technologies, at the heart of major current and document; future markets and close to centers of international º Accessible to all. For the Group, any innovation must expertise. It operates as a collaborative, creative network, support its Mission. New products are therefore developed fostering synergies, speeding up execution and promoting to address specific or even local issues (such as population the emergence of new applications. aging, the emergence of a middle class in high-growth This approach has resulted in Forbes magazine ranking countries, or the development of digital technology) and Essilor as one of the 100 most innovative companies in the reach as many people as possible. To provide more world for the seventh consecutive year complete protection against harmful blue light and UV, both of which contribute to age-related vision loss, the Group introduced the Eye Protect System™ innovation. This innovative system integrates filtering properties directly Including sustainable development in into the lens itself for maximum protection. For the 2.5 innovation billion people without visual correction living mainly in emerging countries with limited visual health structures and complex logistics chains, Essilor has developed Essilor has expanded its culture of global innovation through Ready-to-Clip™, a range of symmetrical, interchangeable gradual integration of the challenges of sustainable lenses that can be fitted instantly in a wide range of frames. development. For the Group, as well as being compliant with This enables consumers on low incomes to buy an regulations, innovation must be: affordable pair of glasses locally, immediately after their º Collaborative. This means that stakeholders (universities, eye test, avoiding any issues with logistics and order research centers, suppliers, customers, professional tracking. associations, etc.) can be involved from design through to ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 239 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Improving lives by improving sight and business models in line with the needs of BoP 4.3.3 Developing inclusive consumers. In 2016-17, Essilor organized an open innovation challenge to support innovative ideas and business models develop new technologies to measure visual defects in populations without access to visual correction. This challenge involved the whole Group ecosystem working A large number of individuals suffer from poor vision together (such as start-ups, universities, app developers, because they cannot access eye care professionals in the eyesight professionals, etc.) to develop low-cost, rural communities or urban areas where they live. easy-to-use and easy-to-deploy solutions. The best Reaching people on low incomes, often designated as “Base solutions are under development so that they can be of the Pyramid” (BoP) consumers, requires a totally different tested on the market; and innovative approach in terms of products, pricing and º the “2.5 New Vision Generation™” (“2.5 NVG”) business distribution. Training micro-entrepreneurs in primary vision structure leverages dedicated sales and logistics teams in care is one of the keys to expanding access to good vision. It key geographical areas of Asia, Latin America and Africa. It also helps create local jobs and combat poverty. focuses on the adaptation and local deployment of The challenge is to find sustainable economic models that solutions for BoP customers so as to create an initial will continue to support communities as they develop and network of infrastructure and vision care their correction needs evolve. micro-entrepreneurs (“Primary Vision Care Providers”). These poorly served communities often lack access to Since 2013, Essilor has put in significant resources to develop vision care facilities. Essilor’s goal is to create 25,000 and roll out inclusive business solutions that involve skill primary vision care providers by 2020. At the end of 2017, building of local youth and creating infrastructure to the Group had attained over 23% of its target i.e. 5,718 dispense Primary Vision care. primary vision care providers on a cumulative basis. This These solutions demand close collaboration with local implies agile, scalable business models. For example, in organizations, hence Essilor is co-constructing partnerships India, where the 2.5 NVG structure originated, Essilor has with NGOs, social entrepreneurs and regional or national developed the Eye Mitra™ (“friends of the eyes” in Sanskrit) governments for its inclusive business models. This provides programme with the aim of training under-employed the Group with a better understanding of local needs and young people as vision technicians. They receive training obstacles to build a framework for ensuring long-term and the equipment needed to start a “micro-business” sustainability projects. carrying out eye exams and dispensing eyeglasses for the To this end, Essilor has created two dedicated inhabitants of rural or semi-urban areas. In 2017, almost complementary structures: 4,000 Eye Mitra™ partners have already been created to provide vision care services to their communities. An º the “BoP Innovation Lab”, the Innovation Laboratory for impact study conducted by the Dalberg practice the Base of the Pyramid, supported by the Singapore highlighted the major socio-economic contributions this Economic Development Board, is an internal incubator, program has made (see Section 4.6.5.). accelerator and facilitator which works on inclusive business models with teams and foundations across the Based on the expertise acquired from the Eye Mitra™ Group, to raise awareness and maximize impact. As an programme, the 2.5 NVG teams also developed the Vision incubator, the Lab develops and evaluates inclusive Ambassador™ programme, which is designed to train business models tailored to the local context or customer individuals to screen for near-vision problems in adults over needs. As an accelerator, the Lab provides strategic and the age of 45 and sell over-the-counter reading glasses as a operational support to on-site teams to implement the complementary business. At the end of 2017, this program projects. As a facilitator, the Lab builds and strengthens had over 1,800 Vision Ambassador™ partners in nine relations with key partners, social enterprises, foundations countries: China, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Cambodia, Vietnam, and development agencies. It works in close collaboration Ivory Coast, Kenya and South Africa. with Essilor’s inclusive business entity, 2.5 New Vision At the end of 2017, the 2.5 NVG products were being Generation™ (see description below), to select programs, distributed in 45 countries. Almost 3.3 million people were evaluate their social impacts, make any adaptations that fitted with eyeglasses this year, compared with 2.2 million in may be necessary and develop new products, solutions 2016, 1.2 million in 2015 and 300,000 in 2014. 240 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Improving lives by improving sight 4.3.4 Strategic Giving Essilor Vision Foundation™ Following the creation in 2007 of the Essilor Vision Essilor continued to deploy its philanthropic initiatives Foundation in the United States, the Group increased its around the world in 2017, holding it as its duty to provide the impact by setting up foundations in India, Singapore and most disadvantaged individuals, who live below the China. In 2016 the Foundation was established in Canada, international poverty line, with the vision care that they need. Australia and New Zealand. Essilor’s philanthropic activities include awareness-raising Some examples of projects in 2017: campaigns, eye exams, donations of lenses and frames, and º in the United States, one child in four has an eyesight funding for local programs led by charities, health care problem that affects learning. According to the Center for voluntary organizations or institutional partners. To this end, Disease Control and Prevention, vision impairment is one of the Group works with many NGOs such as Lions Clubs the most common disabling conditions in children in the International, Brien Holden Vision Institute, Optometry Giving United States. The Foundation operates in every state Sight, the Samu (social humanitarian emergency service in through more than 140 partnerships with other NGOs and Paris), le Secours populaire français (a non-profit works with more than 500 schools to bridge the gap organization devoted to fighting poverty and discrimination between vision care needs and vision care access. One of in France and beyond), the Rothschild Ophthalmology its flagship programs, Kids Vision For Life™, provides direct Foundation, Vision Aid Overseas, Sight Savers, Standing vision care in schools by offering eye exams. A mobile Voice and Orbis International. clinic with facilities to create eyeglasses on-site means that To ensure the success of these initiatives, the Group has most students leave with their own pair of eyeglasses the established a Foundation (Essilor Vision Foundation), with day of the exam. In 2017, over 250,000 optical items were legal entities in seven countries, and in 2015 launched the supplied to disadvantaged people; Vision For Life™ funds in France and the United States, º in China, the Essilor Foundation continued implementing endowed with €30 million to finance programs with these programs for children in almost 20 provinces, long-term impact around the world. resulting in over 400,000 schoolchildren receiving In 2017, through the Group’s own philanthropic organizations eyecare; and those of its partners, thanks to their involvement in around 200 programmes operating in 50 countries, over º in India, over 300,000 people received free eye tests, and over 30,000 of these were disadvantaged children who 4 3,000 employee volunteers tested the sight of 3 million were fitted with glasses to correct their sight; people and fitted 500,000 people with glasses to correct º for the rest of the ASEAN region, the Foundation rolled out their eyesight. The Group’s subsidiaries have donated over 450,000 pairs of glasses to the NGO Restoring Vision, programs in nine countries, raising awareness and bringing the total number of recipients of donated glasses to providing free vision screenings to 175,000 people. Over over one million in 2017. 50,000 people were fitted with glasses to correct their eyesight; Through its Vision For Life™ endowment fund, the Group, º finally, in Australia and New Zealand, over 4,200 pupils had helped create the Our Children’s Vision coalition of over 50 NGOs, all working to combat poor vision, which has enabled their sight tested as a result of a campaign in schools. 1.2 million people to receive visual healthcare since its These initiatives were reported in the local media and creation. helped educate millions of people about how important good eyesight is for academic success. Furthermore, under the Opening Eyes global partnership between Essilor, the “Special Olympics” NGO and the Lions Club International, the Essilor Foundation has screened more than 400,000 children and adults with intellectual disabilities since 2002. In 2017, a total of 200 events took place around the world, with more than 3,000 athletes screened in addition to the 13,200 athletes who were equipped with a pair of sunglasses. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 241 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Improving lives by improving sight º In Europe, Poland began a three-year program to screen Vision For Life™ and fit 10,000 residents of a children’s home with glasses. ™ In 2017, almost 4,000 children had their eyesight tested; The Vision For Life endowment fund (in France) and the non-profit-making Essilor Social Impact Fund (in the United º In 2017, a range of programs were implemented in Africa, States) are continuing with their mission, begun in 2015, to including: help tackle the global challenge of poor eyesight by raising º in Ethiopia, the partnership with the British NGO Vision awareness, developing skills in regions with no access to the Aid Overseas was renewed for three years to test the most basic visual health solutions, supporting the creation of eyesight of 90,000 people and fit 20,000 of them with infrastructure such as vision centers and improving access to glasses, eyecare. º in Tanzania, the partnership with the NGO Standing Essilor has made a contribution of €30 million to these two Voice continued, providing over 4,000 albino children organizations, making it the world’s largest strategic giving with UV protection and corrective lenses if needed, program dedicated to eliminating Uncorrected Refractive º a new project was launched in the Ivory Coast in Error. In 2017, Essilor group made an additional donation conjunction with the Magic System Foundation to help totaling €19 million to roll out new philanthropic programs primary school children from disadvantaged areas worldwide. access visual correction. A first initiative took place in Consequently, initiatives are ongoing in many countries: 2017 involving 300 children, and new schools will be º In France, philanthropic initiatives fall into four categories: added to the program in 2018, º access to eye tests and basic optical equipment for º finally, in South Africa, with the launch of the Kids Right underprivileged people. These initiatives are delivered in to Sight program, which aims to test over 11,000 partnership with humanitarian associations such as the disadvantaged children every month and fit glasses Secours populaire français (a non-profit organization where needed. devoted to fighting poverty and discrimination in France and beyond) or the Samu social (a humanitarian emergency service), Médecins du Monde, as well as Combined impact of inclusive public or private organizations such as the AP-HP and the Rothschild Ophthalmology Foundation, where Vision business and strategic giving For Life™ was also involved in setting up the first initiatives “PASS-O” unit in France, which provides access to ophthalmology care and eyeglasses for almost 5,000 Essilor aims to improve 50 million lives at the BoP by 2020. people without medical insurance per year, At the end of 2017, the Group had reached more than 27% of º initiatives aimed at young people from deprived its target, i.e. 13.4 million people equipped with eyeglasses neighborhoods, to raise awareness about how important on a cumulative basis since 2013. This includes direct good visual health is for their future. Awareness was contribution of 11.6 million via the Group’s various initiatives raised among over 20,000 young people, and over in inclusive business and strategic giving but also in indirect 5,000 received a free eye test, contribution of 1.8 million through the “Our Children’s Vision” º initiatives for refugees, including a pilot scheme at a coalition of which Essilor is a founding member. refugee center in the Paris region, which tested the sight of 400 people, 200 of whom were fitted with glasses, º finally, in early 2017, a partnership began with the French Ministry of Education to raise awareness and provide all involved parties with training on the importance of good eyesight for academic success. This partnership will continue in 2018; 242 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people SOCIAL INFORMATION 4.4. Caring for and engaging our people Essilor’s success is deeply intertwined with the 66,918 (full respects their physical and moral integrity and ensures equal time equivalent) employees worldwide who, irrespective of treatment at all times. their role and the work that they do, are committed to Ensuring these conditions are met means that Essilor is able developing, producing and promoting the innovative to attract and retain talent as well as to improve the products and services that contribute to the Group’s Mission: employability of its staff – in particular, by facilitating access to improve lives by improving sight. to training throughout their career and by broadening their With a history spanning almost 170 years, the Group has a roles and experience so as to encourage increased autonomy unique corporate culture based on strong values established and responsibility. in all areas and subsidiaries of the business: entrepreneurship, respect for others and mutual trust, spirit of cooperation, diversity and innovation. Total workforce and breakdown of Essilor’s employee shareholding structure is a key characteristic of the Group’s social policy. It not only benefits employees by geographical area, employees but also shareholders by aligning their common gender, function and age interests regarding the Company’s performance and the 4 value created as a result. As of December 31, 2017, Essilor had 66,918 employees Through its human resources policy, Essilor also hopes to worldwide according to the financial consolidation method. encourage the development and personal fulfilment of its The average workforce for 2017 was 66,118 employees employees, by offering them opportunities for growth as (according to the consolidated personnel costs for the part of a global, diversified, multicultural Group in multiple period). locations. This aim entails a working environment that 2017 2016 2015 Total workforce (FTEs) at (@) the end of the period 66,918 63,676 (@) 60,883 (@) Average workforce (FTEs) for the year 66,118 (@) 63,107 (@) 60,503 (@) (@) (@) (@) Breakdown of the workforce North America 14,123 (21.1%) 13,476 (21.2%) 12,456 (20.5%) (FTEs) by geographical area (@) Europe 11,934 (17.8%) 12,141 (@) (19.1%) 10,613 (@) (17.4%) Latin America/Africa/Asia/ Australia/Middle East/Russia 40,861 (@) (61.1%) 38,059 (@) (59.7%) 37,814 (@) (62.1%) Note: FTE = Full Time Equivalent. 2017 2016 2015 Reporting Coverage 100% 91.9% 85.6% Workforce (headcount) covered by 2017 reporting (end of period) 69,400 61,995 51,787 Note: Reporting coverage is calculated based on the workforce of the financial consolidation scope at end of 2017. The reporting coverage grew from 91.6% in 2016 to 100% in 2017. Four entities representing less than 100 employees (0.01%) were exempted from non-financial reporting in 2017 for the following reasons: one entity in Miami was affected by hurricane Irma and three entities stopped their activity at the end of 2017. Given the specific cases above, Essilor considers that the 2017 non-financial reporting covers 100% of the Group’s entities and workforce. This significant increase is due to the strengthening of the organization of reporting and the involvement of all entities. The rise in workforce reported (headcount) is mainly due to expansion of the reporting scope. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 243 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people Workforce breakdown by gender 2017 2016 2015 Breakdown of the workforce by gender Women 36,054 (52.0%) 33,587 (54.2%) 27,437 (53.0%) (based on the workforce covered by reporting) Men 33,346 (48.0%) 28,408 (45.8%) 24,350 (47.0%) Note: There is no significant changes in distribution of employees by gender compared with previous year. 69,400 61,995 36,054 51,787 33,346 33,587 28,408 27,437 24,350 52% 48% 54.2% 45.8% 53% 47% 2017 2016 2015 Women Men Workforce breakdown by function 2017 2016 2015 Breakdown of the workforce Production staff 35,230 50.8% 31,558 50.9% 35,196 68.0% by function (based on the workforce covered by Supervisors and reporting) administrative employees 26,369 38.0% 22,780 36.7% 10,608 20.4% Managerial personnel 7,801 11.2% 7,657 12.4% 5,983 11.6% Note : According to the Group’s definition, the “production staff” category includes employees working at production plants; “Supervisors and administrative employees” includes individuals who have management responsibility and/or are employed in an office. Lastly, “Managerial personnel” comprises Executive Directors, managers and experts. 69,400 61,995 51 787 50.8% 68% 35,230 50.9% 35,196 31,558 38% 26,369 36.7% 27,780 20.4% 11.2% 12.4% 10,608 11.6% 7,801 7,657 5,983 2017 2016 2015 Production Supervisors & administrative employees Managerial personnel 244 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people Workforce breakdown by age Age 2017 2016 2015 Breakdown of the workforce by age group 16 to 18 132 (0.19%) 167 (0.27%) 161 (0.31%) (based on the workforce covered by reporting) 18 to 24 7,084 (10.21%) 6,297 (10.16%) 5,644 (10.90%) 25 to 34 23,068 (33.24%) 20,245 (32.65%) 16,537 (31.93%) 35 to 44 19,448 (28.02%) 17,065 (27.53%) 14,179 (27.38%) 45 to 54 12,180 (17.55%) 10,968 (17.69%) 8,946 (17.28%) 55 to 59 3,893 (5.61%) 3,769 (6.08%) 3,341 (6.45%) 60 and over 3,595 (5.18%) 3,484 (5.62%) 2,979 (5.75%) Note: The reported workforce under 18 years old is mainly from entities in China and Brazil where the minimum legal working age is 16. The other, very limited, cases are trainees or apprentices. People in this age group are employed in accordance with local regulations. 23,068 19,448 7,084 12,180 4 3,893 3,595 132 10.21% 33.24% 28.02% 17.55% 5.61% 5.18% 16-18 18-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-59 60 years and above New hires, layoffs and turnover 2017 2016 2015 Total new hires 17,848 14,548 N/A Note: The data reported covers 100% of the Group workforce. The increase of Group recruitment is mainly increase of reporting scope. 2017 2016 2015 Total layoffs 2,279 1,632 N/A Note: The data covers 100% of the Group workforce. The layoff was mainly in Brazil, USA, Mexico and China, which was linked to the reorganization of the Group and local employment culture. 2017 2016 2015 Voluntary turnover rate 9.0% 10.0% 10.0% Note: The turnover rate disclosed is based on the voluntary departures of the Group. It is calculated based on a sample of entities which represents 66% of the Group total workforce and covers all the geographic regions where the Group operates and all the Group’s business activities. Salary changes Total salaries in 2017: €2,298 million (@) Average weighted salary changes could be calculated but Total salaries in 2016: €2,142 million (@) this would not be relevant globally since there are too many variants from one year to the next (the Group’s growth being Total salaries in 2015: €2,045 million (@) one of the major variants). Change between 2017 and 2016: + 7.28% ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 245 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people 4.4.1 Ensuring health and safety with a quality working environment Maintaining the health of all employees and offering them a experts in occupational health and safety, as well as in the quality working environment are priorities for Essilor. This management of chemical products and in ergonomics. It involves preventing accidents and occupational illnesses, defines the annual targets and is supported by a network of taking measures to minimize the severity of accidents and EHS coordinators at the Group’s main sites, to whom it the implementation of corrective action plans to prevent provides assistance and technical operational support, such repetition. In addition to the human factor, the accident may as standard procedures, action plans and on-site audits. involve significant direct costs (related to absences and Occupational health and safety policies at the plants are temporary replacement staff, fines, contributions and shaped by OHSAS 18001 guidelines, as well as Essilor’s EHS increased insurance costs) and indirect costs (a drop in guidelines. The key objectives are to improve awareness, productivity and disruption to services). Essilor, its training and communication on health and safety issues. employees and their representatives therefore have a mutual interest in working together to reduce accidents to a As of December 31, 2017, the production plants in Brazil (1), minimum. China (1), the United States (1), France (2), Ireland (1), Mexico (1), the Philippines (2) and Thailand (1) were OHSAS 18001-certified. As a result, the percentage of certified environmental management systems in the Group’s Health and safety in the workplace upstream production plants was 83% (10/12). The development and launch of new products now include a As part of a continued drive to improve occupational health new process called Stages & Gates which aims to coordinate and safety conditions and reach the target of zero workplace the work of the various departments, from design to accidents, the Group has set itself the target of decreasing deployment at production plants. This process includes the work-related injury frequency rate by 30% by 2020 occupational health and safety and environmental (reference year 2015). At the end of 2017 and on this scope, requirements in an effort to prevent occupational illnesses the Group had already attained 47% of its target, with a 14% and accidents and reduce their impact on the environment. reduction. These requirements pertain to safe machines and processes, In collaboration with the Human Resources Department, the ergonomic workstations, chemicals management, regulatory Global EHS (Environment-Health-Safety) Department, leads aspects and change management, among other topics. the Group’s approach to health and safety. It includes Health & safety indicators 2017 2016 2015 Work-related injuries with lost work time 294 193 197 Work-related injuries without lost work time 463 333 431 Fatal accidents 1 0 0 Lost days due to work-related injuries with lost work time 7,722 6,550 5,674 Frequency rate of work-related injuries with lost work time for the period 2.0 1.9 2.1 Severity rate of work-related injuries with lost work time for the period 0.05 0.06 0.06 Note: The increase in the number in work-related injuries is mainly due to the increase in the reporting coverage. Reporting scope has significantly increased from 74.8% in 2016 to 98% in 2017. Given the increase of the number of cases of work-related injuries, both the frequency rate and severity rate remain stable. Disregarding the increased scope of 2017, both frequency rate and severity rate of work-related injuries have decreased. At the end of 2016, one of the Group’s employees in the Middle East tragically lost his life in a road accident on a work-related journey. 246 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people ACCIDENTS WITH LOST WORK TIME (FREQUENCY RATE FOR THE PERIOD) 2.1 2.0 1.9 110 294 197 193 -9 2015 2016 Variation Scope 2017 on same scope impact LOST DAYS (SEVERITY RATE FOR THE PERIOD) 0.06 0.06 0.05 1,549 7,722 5,674 6,550 -377 4 2015 2016 Variation on same Scope 2017 scope impact Occupational illnesses Identifying and monitoring the possible occurrence of a special emphasis is placed on chemical management with a occupational illnesses is the task of each entity and the focus on preventing employee exposure. Based on a risk number of cases has not been consolidated due to the assessment approach, prevention and protection actions are difference between local regulations. The vast majority of underway, such as: Group-wide replacement program, reported occupational illnesses fall within the category of technical systems to extract steam and fumes, automatic musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). An ergonomics position filling machines, adaptation of work stations, training has been created within the Global EHS Department to sessions and specially adapted personal protective initiate and monitor programs set up to reduce the existing equipment. The effectiveness of these actions is verified by number of cases and prevent the occurrence of new cases. periodic sampling or via continuous monitoring, in addition Because the manufacturing of lenses involves the use of to appropriate medical surveillance of employees. numerous chemicals, including some hazardous substances, These programmes were continued in 2017. Absenteeism 2017 2016 2015 Absenteeism rate 2.9% 3.4% 5.1% Note: The absenteeism rate is calculated as a weighted average based on the number of lost work days. The coverage rate was 89% of employees covered in the 2017 reporting, across all of the Group’s core businesses and geographical areas. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 247 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people Working time organization Working hours vary considerably within the Essilor group. The Group promotes flexibility initiatives in the organization Each legal entity has the autonomy to decide the most of work (part-time, teleworking, etc.). Local decisions in appropriate working hours. For that reason, Essilor does not terms of the organization of working hours are based disclose the consolidated data regarding working hours. primarily on adapting to customers’ needs, discussions with employees and their representative bodies, compliance with local regulations and optimizing operational efficiency. 4.4.2 Training and the development of skills and talent With a rapidly growing international business, a presence in have access to Essilor “U” by 2020. In 2017, 64% of emerging countries, areas of specific know-how and growth employees were connected to the platform. in new segments, training and the development of skills and The digital offering is built around the Group’s fundamental talents are strategic challenges for the Group. It may be principles: Mission, Strategy, Leadership, Finance, Regulatory difficult to hire and retain trained, experienced employees, Compliance, Optical and Products. Over 51,900 courses were particularly in competitive areas of the labor market and in completed in 2017. The availability of more content, either emerging countries. This situation affects all levels of online-only or in combination with other programs, has employees (workers, supervisors and managers) and calls for boosted career development opportunities and given more specific measures. In consequence, such measures have a concrete expression to the “digital” aspect of learning, prominent role in Essilor’s human resources policy. encouraging each employee to play an active role in their Developing employees’ skills and employability is both an own development. essential criterion for operational efficiency to support the MANAGERIAL CAREER PATHS Group’s growth, and a sustainable commitment by the employer towards its staff. There are three classroom-based training programs available to Group managerial staff: Training also supports internal mobility and helps to build fulfilling career paths. Essilor has a strong commitment to its º for those who primarily work with their teams in the employees in both these respects. strategic operational performance functions, the General Management Program (GMP) offers a selection of business From very early on, Essilor created its training schemes and topics (strategy, marketing, finance, innovation and change put in place means of identifying and developing talent. management) as part of a learning program that focuses Today, a number of initiatives are lead regarding training and on the Group’s management methods and approaches. talent management. Organized in three major regions, the program is run in partnership with three prestigious management schools: ESSEC (France), Nanyang Business School (Singapore) and Training and development McCombs School of Business (USA). It has a common curriculum to which an appropriate local component is The Essilor group has set up a flexible, consistent training added to help with the acquisition of new theories and platform to support its growth (online sales, sunglasses, etc.) sharing of internal practices. In 2017, a program in Chinese while meeting the employability needs of individuals and was rolled out for our employees and partners in China, teams. Taiwan and Hong Kong. India has also introduced a similar program for its young talent; At the Group level, a specific team is responsible for devising, rolling out and overseeing training, as well as º for those who are primarily involved in transforming key ensuring that content is updated to best support the strategic objectives and rolling these out to their teams, organization’s new key themes. Training on Group level falls the Advanced Management Program (AMP) has a dual into three categories: purpose. Firstly, it develops a strategic approach for steering change in an environment where analyzing value ESSILOR U , AN ONLINE TRAINING PLATFORM creation is essential and where innovation plays a key role in the relationship with customers and consumers. Distance learning (e-learning) provides complete access to Secondly, it focuses in particular on personal development general-interest content or content that is designed for new and managing teams or projects in a global context. This hires. Programs where employees take responsibility for their program has been put together in partnership with own development are also offered. Thunderbird School of Global Management (USA); in 2017, Essilor University (Essilor “U”) is based on an easy-to-use a group of 32 managers began this program, which will digital training platform, which connects all new employees continue in 2018 with an experiment focusing on the from any of the Group’s entities across the world, including Group’s Mission in Tunisia; those from key partner entities. In 2017, 10,000 employees º a Senior Management Program (SMP) was delivered in joined Essilor “U” – a total of 42,000 employees are now 2016 for the first time, in partnership with INSEAD. It is connected and have access to the training solutions on offer primarily aimed at employees with a direct role in devising at all levels. Particular focus was placed on welcoming and and managing strategy at the managerial level, and has integrating new employees. These initiatives will continue in two focus areas: maximizing the value created with 2018 with more extensive industry-related content and strategic agility elements, innovation, management of programs, such as marketing and human resources, and partnerships and negotiations, then secondly, improved access to content on mobile devices (smartphones organizational efficiency, with the management of complex and tablets). The Group’s goal is to ensure all employees organizations, value analysis and optimization of commitment. 248 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people To complement the aforementioned business management In 2017, almost 350 managers were enrolled in this programs, a special leadership development program, program, which involved classroom sessions, online Transition from Manager to Leader (TML), was revisited and modules supported by Harvard Manage Mentor®, rolled out on a regional basis to meet a growing demand joint-development between peers, and ongoing from managers. Its goal is to help them to develop as managerial support; leaders, to be impactful and to coach their teams in fostering º “LOFT” – The purpose of the LOFT (Learning Organization a respect for the Group’s values. They receive guidance from For Tomorrow) program launched in 2007 is to promote coaches who help them to identify their strengths and work the exchange of best practices and the generation of on areas for development, as well as support from their shared know-how. Since then, an organizational structure peers. for learning has been introduced, with trainers in In 2017, over 340 managers received training on 11 different laboratories and production sites who are trained to be programmes. trainers; they then, in turn, train their colleagues at their workstations. Content for the LOFT program is now PROGRAMS FOR SPECIFIC TOPICS, BUSINESS managed in conjunction with Essilor University; AREAS AND REGIONS º “EVE” – The EVE programme, created in 2010 by French In addition, Group subsidiaries and functions create their multinational food products company Danone, is a own training programs in order to meet the specific needs of leadership program for women which aims to contribute to a region or business, or in response to an operational the development of strong, inspiring individuals in limitation (e.g. global dispersal of a community of experts…). sufficient numbers to bring change to the business. Essilor has joined forces with other sponsor companies and, in º “Grow Your Team” – Devised by the Group’s Operations 2017, 15 employees took part in sessions held in France and Department, this program aims to strengthen management China. practices and management excellence (lean manufacturing, etc.). It involves the entire management chain and is In 2018, Essilor will continue to connect more employees to designed not only to create momentum for learning and Essilor U, by enhancing the training offer and communicating cohesion based on shared management principles but also best practices in an effort to enhance the digital learning to develop a culture of feedback for collective culture of each employee. The Group will include more improvement and increased commitment, and enhance employees’ performance and personal development. The course was developed centrally and is being rolled out with partners in its training and development network and improve consistency with the Group’s initiatives. Essilor will also continue to devise innovative solutions tailored to the 4 local trainers in conjunction with the entire HR structure. needs expressed or perceived by the business units. These solutions will be closely related to the development of skills and talent at both the local and the global level. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 249 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people Total number of local training hours To monitor overall training activity across all locations of the Group, the subsidiaries are asked to track the “Number of training hours” indicator for production staff and all other management positions (supervisors, administrative employees and managerial personnel). 2017 2016 2015 Number of training hours for production employees 418,021 357,196 378,727 Number of training hours for non-production employees 255,028 259,819 170,940 TOTAL 673,049 617,015 549,667 Note: To avoid training hours being counted twice, reporting on training is divided into two main sections: local training and online training. Local training includes training for production staff and non-production staff. The local training coverage rate was 76% of all group employees, largely increased compared with 2016, resulting in a rise in the number of training hours declared. The Group’s online training is collected and consolidated separately via Essilor “U”, the Group’s online training platform. 673,049 617,015 549,667 255,028 259,819 170,940 418,021 357,196 378,727 2017 2016 2015 Production employees Non-production employees Talent management In order to attract, develop and retain talent, in 2017 Essilor’s on. This complements campaigns on social networks such Talent Management Department continued with the rollout as LinkedIn™; of a comprehensive approach built on several initiatives: º develop internal talent-acquisition capacity to create a º deploy the Successfactor software (e-Talent) as a uniform experience for candidates and fill vacancies more comprehensive talent management tool to appraise quickly; performance, review talent and prepare succession plans at º globally launch the ETP (“Emerging Talent Program”) the global level and also to set growth targets to continue which targets recruits from the best campuses, and offers our employees’ development; students a rotation within a region or globally. It has º implement a dedicated recruitment platform for internal already been launched in Europe, AMERA and for the and external use. This makes it easier for employees to find Finance function; vacancies within the Group and, as such, provides more º develop the COMET program, which is an accelerator for internal mobility opportunities. It also improves the talented young employees in the Group, and support them efficiency of the external process and supports our efforts in their career plans; to become an “employer of choice”; º continue to improve training programs, including AMP, º improve the “employer” brand: maintain a regular presence GMP and TML; on the international campuses of top-ranking management schools (INSEAD, ESSEC, HEC, NUS, NTU, SMU, CEIBS, º launch several mentoring programs across the etc.) by making presentations on the Group’s businesses, organization, such as the Reverse mentoring initiative in job and career fairs, presenting Essilor case studies, and so France. 250 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people 4.4.3 Employee integration Challenges, priorities and key themes of the diversity and inclusion policy and inclusion of all forms of diversity Essilor’s diversity and inclusion policy covers several major priorities: ensuring equal opportunity; supporting geographical development and adaptation to local cultures; optimizing the organization; and using the Group’s social, The promotion of diversity, one of Essilor’s five values, has human and cultural richness to boost economic performance. contributed to international expansion, product and service innovation, performance, and exceptional growth for the Most importantly, it is a broad approach that covers all Group. Encouraging diversity in all its forms is also a means aspects of diversity. Essilor also adopts a thematic approach of fostering personal initiative and the development and to: professional growth of Essilor’s employees. This culture of º cultural diversity to ensure that teams better reflect diversity and inclusion is also a key factor for success in markets and customers in terms of cultures and integrating newly acquired companies. nationalities; Essilor firmly believes that getting the best ideas and º gender diversity, one of the goals of which is to increase different perspectives is crucial to the Group’s success and as the representation of women in the Group’s senior such is committed to developing an inclusive work executive positions; environment that promotes diversity. Inclusion begins with º inter-generational diversity to develop a pool of young the Group’s ability to welcome new employees, introduce talent, draw on the experience of older workers and them to the Group’s culture and strategy, respect the strengthen the effective collaboration between all Group uniqueness of each individual, and promote the value created employees, regardless of their age. at Essilor when all these different profiles work together. The Group’s Diversité, Allons plus loin (“Diversity – let’s aim higher”) program, which was launched in 2015, drives this strategy and has four main aims: Onboarding new employees At Group level, onboarding can be achieved through the º to monitor changes in the situation using relative indicators for gender, age, nationality, participation in training and new hires, etc. This makes it possible to identify focus areas 4 Essilor “U” training platform which was open to over 42,000 and progress made; employees in 2017, with the ambition to continue increasing this number in 2018. An induction program is made available º to encourage local teams to take more action in this area; to new employees when their online account is created. The since 2016, March has been diversity and inclusion month program is also visible in a special section of the Group’s at the Group when many subsidiaries involve their intranet site. Providing information about the fundamentals employees: breakfast on the theme of gender diversity, of Essilor’s business, its Mission, its Principles and Values, and special evening with traditional costumes and dishes from key points regarding safety and regulatory compliance, it different cultures, competition and diversity quiz; allows each new employee to feel that they are fully involved awareness-raising exhibition on disabilities, etc. Further, in helping to achieve the Group’s goals. In 2017, a new internal networks for women are being developed: in the e-learning module, available in eight languages, was USA, France, within the e-commerce subsidiary Clearly in introduced to the Group’s fundamentals and core businesses. Canada and Singapore; “Vision Essilor” is the induction program offered to welcome º to enhance the HR and management processes so that new managers; it includes a full week in direct contact with there is richer diversity and greater benefits as a result: for General Management to explore the Group’s core businesses, every new job offer for a key position, whether internal or strategy and culture. In 2017, Vision Essilor attracted 130 external, there must be a woman on the shortlist who fits participants from 36 countries. the desired profile; in some countries, such as France, any There are a number of induction initiatives at the regional job offered externally must first be publicized with firms level, such as the Somos Essilor program in Brazil, the specializing in the recruitment of people with disabilities; at “Y.Essilor” initiative for trainees and interns in France, and the Group level, introduction of a quarterly discussion the 90-day “Smart Start” program in the USA which is aimed committee (the Best Practices D&I Committee) comprising at providing more information on the optics sector, the some 15 “local diversity ambassadors”; local initiatives also Essilor group, the Essilor of America subsidiary, and the exist, such as the IDEA Committee – Inclusion & Diversity @ participant’s business area. Essilor of America – in the United States; º to implement initiatives to support the professional development of all employees: “Female leadership” program, such as the EVE program initiated at Danone in which Essilor has been involved since it was set up five years ago; specific courses to attract and develop talent in the United States, Europe and Asia; training on diversity and subconscious bias aimed at a wide variety of profiles within the Group, with pilot sessions for all managers in France and all US employees. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 251 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people MEASURES TAKEN TO PROMOTE THE good practice in terms of employing people with disabilities. EMPLOYMENT AND INTEGRATION OF PEOPLE In France, a guide has been produced to assist managers who are key players in integrating people with disabilities. WITH DISABILITIES Similarly, Essilor entities have introduced measures to The Group pays keen attention to the issue of disability. promote the employment and integration of people with Efforts made within the Group are reflected around the disabilities. Recruitment procedures allow such individuals to world in awareness campaigns and training initiatives, access genuine job opportunities. All reasonable efforts are actions to promote fair and sustainable recruitment, job made to make a workstation suitable for and accessible to an security for people with disabilities, and the development of individual with a disability. Essilor does not engage in any a purchasing policy that involves the protected worker discrimination based on a person’s disability in respect of sector. In Colombia, Servioptica, an Essilor business partner, employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. also won recognition from the United Nations last year for its 2017 2016 2015 Number of employees with a disability 617 523 466 Percentage of employees with a disability 0.9% 0.8% 0.9% Number of associated jobs created 85 84 81 Note: To continuously improve the reporting data quality, a mistake was identified for 2016 reporting of disabled hiring. The 2016 data bave been restated accordingly. The reporting coverage rate of 2017 is 99% of the Group’s total workforce. The percentage of employees declared as having a disability remained the same as the previous year. In France, since 2007, Essilor has signed four collective º develop use of the protected worker sector; bargaining agreements on the continued employment of º continued training, awareness and communication efforts people with disabilities and their integration within the in respect of disability. Group. Essilor is a member of two non-profit associations. In France, that support the inclusion of people with disabilities, In 2017, Essilor in France celebrated the 10th anniversary of its Club Handicap & Compétences and Club Être, sharing best Disability mission. To commemorate this event, a series of practices and taking part in think tanks on the issue with videos featuring the testimonies of employees as well as a other stakeholders. This commitment by the Company and travelling exhibition were presented to all employees. its social partners to the practical implementation of a Furthermore, Essilor France launched the Engagez-vous pour sustainable, coherent proactive policy, is reflected in an la diversité! (Commit to Diversity!) initiative, which increase in the employment rate for employees with encouraged employees to devise actions to promote disabilities, from 3.44% in 2007 to 4.59% in 2016. diversity. Teams discussed key issues, such as equality in the workplace, disabilities and inter-generational issues. All The fourth collective bargaining agreement on the managers were offered diversity training to break down integration and continued employment of people with stereotypes and prejudice. disabilities was signed in late 2015 for a term of three years, from 2016 to 2018. This agreement, implemented by Essilor’s ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY Mission Handicap and a network of 21 internal officers, is structured around four main lines of action: Essilor has implemented a specific procedure that is invoked in the event of employees reporting allegations of º continued employment of Essilor staff with disabilities, discrimination. Such issues may relate to a job or to an using a range of appropriate aids; occupation. º rollout of a sustainable recruitment plan with decisions based on objective, skills-related criteria; 252 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people 4.4.4 Employee shareholding & management/employee consultation As a result of its culture, which is heavily influenced by its element of Essilor’s cultural foundations, one of the Group’s origins, its history and its two-fold economic and human founding principles and is critical to its performance. goal, the Group promotes employee profit-sharing, Employees are Essilor’s main shareholder, and this has given particularly through shareholding and encourages dialogue rise to an original method of governance that encourages between management and employees regardless of whether dialogue and involves employees in the Group’s key they are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. All decisions. It also means that the interests of employees are Group employees have access to social security; it varies aligned with those of shareholders. The employee depending on local characteristics. shareholding is multi-faceted and tailored to the legal Ongoing management/employee dialogue also allows Essilor framework of each country. Valoptec Association, a and its staff to manage necessary changes in the non-profit association under the French 1901 law, brings organizational structure with ease. This capacity for dialogue together more than 7,583 active and retired employee is essential to safeguard the agility of the Company, its shareholders. Internal shareholders have the largest single business continuity – even in case of grievances, and the shareholding in the Group. excellent reputation that Essilor enjoys amongst all its Essilor International’s Employee Shareholding Department stakeholders. sets up and manages the employee shareholding plans for all Essilor group companies. In 2017, new countries were included in the shareholding plans: Chile, Colombia, Ivory Employees – Essilor’s main Coast, Costa Rica, Morocco and Sri Lanka. shareholder In 2017, the 2017 Boost international plan included 21,522 new employee shareholders. This plan covered 14 countries: Germany, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ivory Since its establishment, Essilor has been committed to a strong internal employee shareholding policy. With 54% of employees now holding shares in the Group in 2017 thanks to Coast, India, Italy, Mexico, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand and the USA. This plan is open to almost all employees in these 4 countries, and the subscription rate was 69%. This goal to the Boost international plan (detailed below), Essilor very develop and further strengthen the shareholding culture quickly met its initial target of 35%of employee shareholders includes all the Group’s host countries and all employees, by 2020 and its even more ambitious target of 50% in the regardless of their professional status. long term. As of December 31, 2017, employees and partners held 8.4% Actively involving as many employees as possible in the of the share capital and 14.4% of voting rights. Company, its growth and success over the long term is a key 2017 2016 2015 (@) (@) (@) Number of employee shareholders 35,866 13,557 12,944 Percentage of employee shareholders 54.2% 21.5% 21.4% Note: Data concern only active employee shareholders as of December 31, 2017. Percentage calculation is based on an average of 66,118 employees for the full year 2017. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 253 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Caring for and engaging our people Organization of dialogue between Overview of collective agreements management and employees There are a vast number of collective bargaining agreements per legal entity, each of which has the autonomy to When it comes to dialogue between management and implement collective bargaining agreements according to employees, Essilor promotes listening, discussion and the regulations in force. transparency in local decision-making. It also encourages open communication with employees and strives to ensure Most collective bargaining agreements relate to the that everyone can participate without hierarchical provision of both long-term benefits (medical cover, boundaries. Dialogue between management and employees pensions, diversity and disabilities, life assurance, etc.) and varies widely within the Essilor group. Each legal entity has short-term benefits (performance bonuses, distribution of complete autonomy to decide on the most appropriate performance shares, shareholding, etc.) which attract and labor-related dialogue. Labor-related dialogue is generally retain employees who contribute to the Group’s organized by employee representatives through any means performance through their expertise and talent. Agreements possible or directly for the smallest entities or those not signed on such issues typically have a broader framework in wishing to be represented by one or more third-parties. Such respect of general working conditions and therefore include dialogue covers more than 90% of the Group’s total occupational health and safety. workforce. The forms of representation include the following: Optical Union, in Brazil; Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Limited Compliance with the freedom of Trade Union, in China; Committee for Dialogue and Information Sharing within Essilor (CEDIE), in Europe; Group association and the right to Committee in France, Karmika Sangha, in India; collective bargaining Confederation of Filipino Workers Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Incorporated Chapter, in the Philippines; Essilor Essilor recognizes the eight fundamental conventions of the Workers’ Union of Thailand, in Thailand; as well as many International Labor Organization (ILO), particularly activity committees, communication committees, employee compliance with freedom of association and the right to committees, factory committees, safety committees, welfare collective bargaining, the abolition of all forms of forced or committees and similar structures. compulsory labor, abolition of child labor and removal of Numerous initiatives are conducted in the countries of discrimination in employment and occupation. To date, no operation in the spirit of labor-related dialogue that the activity has been identified as presenting a compliance risk in Company embodies. Staff negotiations vary from one this area. establishment to another, but Essilor consistently promotes these throughout the world as a factor in employee satisfaction. Global staff opinion polls continue to be conducted periodically within the Group. In late 2015, the Group launched its fifth employee opinion poll, which achieved a high response rate of nearly 80%. The poll revealed that 93% of employees said they were satisfied working at Essilor and that the average satisfaction rate for all questions combined was 85%. These results had improved over the previous survey. A new survey will be conducted in 2018. 254 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 4.5. Optimizing the environmental footprint In the mid-20th century, Essilor both revolutionized the optics Essilor has set five priorities regarding the operational, industr and, substantially reduced its environmental footprint financial and reputational challenges associated with the by introducting ORMA lens (for ORganic MAterial®). This environment: would replace the mineral lens and lead to the cessation of 1. Strengthen environmental management processes. impactful manufacturing methods. Since this innovation, the environmental impact of production activities has been 2. Reduce water consumption and guarantee supply. significantly reduced and is now limited to water and energy 3. Improve the energy efficiency of manufacturing and consumption, special-waste management and water transportation processes. discharge treatment. The materials and chemical products 4. Decrease the carbon footprint and adapt to climate used in the production process are subject to stringent change. regulations in terms of environmental protection and are supplied by industries with good environmental practices 5. Limit waste generation and optimize recycling. allowing associated impacts to be controlled. Responsibility for overseeing the Group’s environmental impact reduction program lies with the Global EHS Department. To fulfil this responsibility, it relies on a network of EHS coordinators at production plants. 4 4.5.1 Strengthening environmental management Environmental assessment and Environmental training certification In 2017, in addition to the training and awareness-raising initiatives inherent in ISO 14001-certified systems, the various Given its industrial activities, historically, Essilor has entities saw the delivery of numerous training courses on implemented environmental management systems that aspects of environmental management. The Global conform to the ISO 14001: 2015 standard. Since December 31, Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department 2005, the Essilor mass production plants in Brazil (1), continued with the rollout of a program to raise partners’ China (1), the United States (1), France (2), Ireland (1), awareness of the EHS policy and management tools via Mexico (1), the Philippines (2) and Thailand (1) have all been Essilor “U” (e-learning) and dedicated seminars. certified to ISO 14001. Some Essilor partners are also ISO 14001-certified, such as Nikon Essilor in Japan. As a result, the percentage of certified environmental management systems of the Group’s upstream production plants was 83% (10/12). In 2017, inspection audits were carried out as planned. Furthermore, some of the most significant prescription and service laboratories and distribution centers in terms of volume of throughput have also introduced and maintain ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems where this is relevant. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 255 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint Provisions and guarantees for environmental risk Essilor made no provision for environmental risks in 2017. 2017 2016 2015 Monetary value of significant fines 0 0 0 worldwide; this was updated in 2017. Four sites are located Noise pollution within an area of biodiversity interest. The biodiversity audit of one of these sites by an external company showed that No complaints about noise, odor or any other form of there was no significant potential impact and no significant specific pollution were received in 2017. dependency in respect of biodiversity and ecological services for this site and the activities taking place there. Essilor carries out its business in industrial buildings, usually Biodiversity & land use located in existing industrial areas or commercial premises. Land is therefore not used in the Group’s operations per se, Finding potential significant impacts on biodiversity is one of but rather is associated with the buildings the Group the aims of the environmental management systems. Essilor occupies. performed biodiversity mapping on the majority of its sites 4.5.2 Reducing water use water-management programmes and setting specific Management of water water-reduction targets. In this case, the Group fosters and sustains the conditions for dialogue between public sector The mass production plants and the prescription laboratories services, water suppliers and NGOs to anticipate changes in use considerable quantities of water for lens machining, the availability and cost of water, so as to adjust production. surfacing and rinsing operations. However, net water This policy was recognized at Essilor’s production plant in consumption is not significant since the water used in the Shanghai, which includes SEOCL (production of finished and production processes is subsequently treated and returned semi-finished lenses) and CHLOE (Rx laboratory for the in near-equal volume, excepting leaks, a low level of domestic and foreign markets), named as a “company evaporation and everyday site consumption. attentive to water-saving” by the Shanghai government. Access to high quality water for production operations is an Only 22 companies have received this distinction. essential factor in ensuring the quality of the finished and Aware of its impact on the environment, Essilor has semi-finished lenses that the Company distributes. Most voluntarily contributed to the work of the CDP(1) regarding its Group sites are generally located in industrial or urban areas water footprint. In 2017, the Group was awarded the highest where access to water is provided by local authorities. They distinction for its leadership in the field of water are dependent on these local authority managed utilities. management. With the highest score of “A”, the Group Water is also used in sanitary networks. A number of entities appeared for the first time on the “Water A” list 2017, a use recycled production water or collected rainwater for ranking of 74 global companies which have made ambitious sanitary networks. commitments to optimize water use and improve the The Group has a few sites located in areas of water stress, security of water resources. Finally, the Group aims to such as in India (EMIL) and Mexico (SOFI). The Group may continue its efforts by cutting its water use per good lens be faced with restrictions on water withdrawals imposed by produced by 20% by 2020 compared to 2015, on a scope local authorities, an increase in the cost of water and that represents the majority of its water impacts. In 2017, on potentially, questions from local stakeholders who are also this same scope and as part of the Reboost program (see dependent on water resources. To mitigate these section below), the Group reduced the amount of water used water-related risks, sites are introducing more stringent in its manufacturing process by 10%. (1) The CDP is an organisation which supports disclosure of the environmental impact of major corporations. 256 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint Reduction program To ensure a more effective rollout of initiatives to reduce the As part of “Reboost Water”, each region has to define its consumption of natural resources, Essilor has launched the own Water roadmap, a process which is overseen at Group “Reboost” programme, which aims to define and roll out level. Group performance standards, along with associated field In 2017, the water use of the first sites to participate in the projects, to reduce the main environmental impacts. Reboost programme decreased. The scope of the Reboost The following actions have been taken within the “Reboost programme’s action has now been extended to all mass Water” program: production sites and export laboratories, as well as to the 15 º water mapping on the main mass production plants and largest prescription laboratories. The programme has laboratories; focused in particular on coating machines, implementing solutions to reduce and reuse water. The Group continued to º a comparison of the sites’ water performance with the install intelligent meters at the main sites. The ultimate goal benchmark process, or “water model”; is to equip some 50 sites with these solutions. In 2018, the º a medium-term plan to reduce each area of water use. Global EHS Department will continue to roll out eco-design and environmentally-friendly behavior solutions across the entire “Reboost Water” scope. Water Withdrawals (m3) 2017 2016 2015 Water Withdrawals (m ) 3 6,443,318 6,048,575 4,821,609 Municipal water 5,830,465 5,661,638 4,469,088 Breakdowns by source Natural water 612,853 386,937 352,521 Note: Water withdrawals in 2017 were relatively stable compared with 2016. The data reported this year covers 89% of the total number of employees reported. Based on the 2016 reporting scope, water withdrawals decreased by 17%, thanks to the Group’s efforts in water reduction and various water-saving initiatives across the Group. Larger participation rate and the expansion of perimeter has an impact of 22% of the total water use 4 of 2017. WATER USE (M3) 1,431,822 6,443,318 6,048,575 4,821,610 -1,037,079 4,469,088 5,661,638 5,830,465 355,522 386,937 612,853 2015 2016 Variation Scope 2017 on same scope impact Natural water Municipal water ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 257 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint Water discharge control program The prevention and reduction of water discharges are taken In 2016, the Group had only two incidents related to water into account whenever relevant. This involves investing in discharge, which took place in Thailand. The impact was wastewater treatment systems, from single or combined non-significant and a remediation plan has been put in place. filtering, neutralization, settling and degreasing processes to One of the lessons learned was that the measures taken to complete processing units, purification plants or similar reduce water withdrawals led to an increased concentration treatment facilities. These measures are designed to reduce of pollutants. In 2017, the Group implemented measures to loads in existing effluent, which, in the case of prescription monitor wastewater more accurately. Meanwhile, Essilor has laboratories, are essentially suspended solids related to introduced the “Wastewater Model” program, on the same surfacing that are filtered at the job site and sent to a dump scope as Reboost Water, to compare sites’ performance as solid waste. against the benchmark process and facilitate the rollout of The Group controls the quality of its water discharges. initiatives designed to control water discharge. The program Suspended materials, COD, five-day BOD, heavy metals and has identified the action that must be taken to avoid such other general criteria like pH or other more specific incidents in the future. indicators depending on the requirements of local water Essilor also continued to invest in water treatment plants, agencies are monitored locally through the environmental particularly in China, on the three production plants in management systems. Danyang. The Group had more than 90 water treatment plants in 2017. 2017 2016 2015 TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER DISCHARGED (m3) 5,154,654 4,838,860 3,857,287 Note: The volume of water discharges is calculated from the difference between water withdrawals and water consumption. Essilor’s water consumption is mainly due to evaporation during the manufacturing process. Knowing the percentage of water consumption of different manufacturing operations and geographic regions can vary from one mass production plant or prescription laboratory to another, the Group estimated its level of water consumption at 20% of the water withdrawals based on the Group’s expertise and reinforced on the basis of a sample of entities accounting for 87% of the Group workforce. That is to say, the volume of water discharges of the Group is estimated to be 80% of the Group water withdrawals. WATER DISCHARGES (M3) 1,145,457 5,154,654 4,838,860 3,857,287 -85,745 2015 2016 Variation Scope 2017 on same scope impact 258 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint 4.5.3 Energy efficiency in production and distribution Energy & Production Compared with industrial transformation processes, the º improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings. energy requirement for manufacturing finished and With regard to the energy mix, to date it is still difficult for semi-finished lenses is minimal. However, Essilor is most sites to use renewable energy, except in countries committed to improving its energy efficiency, as reflected in where these are available and offered as an option to a steady fall in energy consumption over the last 15 years. industrial customers by energy providers. Beyond Essilor’s corporate commitment, energy efficiency is The Reboost Energy program will continue in 2018 and also a lever for cost reduction, since energy accounts for a beyond, with the goal of achieving a 15% reduction in energy significant proportion of operational costs. The action plans intensity per good lens produced by 2020 (compared with implemented also allow the Company to control the rise in 2015) on a scope that represents the majority of the Group’s energy costs and increase its ability to avoid interruptions to energy consumption. Essilor has also voluntarily contributed or restrictions on energy supply in particular business to the work of the CDP Climate. In 2017, the Group was regions. Lastly, energy efficiency helps to reduce direct awarded an “A-” rating in recognition of its efforts and greenhouse gas emissions. continuing investments, having shown leadership in this area. As with water, the Reboost programme incorporates energy Furthermore, the program is led by an internal committee of efficiency initiatives. energy experts whose goal is to: Reboost Energy now incorporates three areas of focus: º share best practice; º a review of the energy efficiency of manufacturing º report on proven solutions/innovations (for production processes (heat chambers, vacuum processing machines, processes as well as for non-process equipment and etc.) and peripheral units, such as compressed air, chilled process operating parameters); and water and air conditioning units…; º raising awareness among technicians and maintenance teams, and providing them with training. One of the three º prioritize the solutions to be deployed throughout the Group based on the criteria of simplicity, costs and 4 expected benefits. online training sessions available on the Essilor Academy – Save Energy (EASE) intranet site is designed to provide training and a continuous flow of information on good practices, and monitor energy saving technological developments; Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2017 2016 2015 Total consumption (units: GWh) 932.0 830.7 709.4 Breakdown by type Electricity 849.7 759.1 643.7 Gas 70.1 61.0 56.7 Liquid fuel 12.2 10.6 9.0 Renewable energy 193.7 174.8 NA % of renewable energy 20.8 21.0 NA Note: The increase in total energy consumption in 2017 is mainly due to the expansion of the reporting scope. The related reporting coverage rate was 92.2% of all employees. At constant scope, energy consumption decreased by around 1%. The scope effect accounted for 13% of total energy consumption in 2017. Renewable energies are calculated on the basis of the average percentage of renewable energy in the energy mix by country according to the International Energy Agency's (IEA) database. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 259 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWH) 111.7 932.0 830.7 10.3 710.0 644.0 759.1 849.7 9.0 10.6 12.2 57.0 61.0 70.1 2015 2016 Variation Score 2017 on same scope impact Gas Liquid fuel Electricity Energy & transportation Energy used by transportation is measured using three categories: primary (flows to a distribution center or offshore prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of origin), secondary (flows to a subsidiary, regardless of the point of origin) and tertiary (flows to the customer, regardless of the point of origin). See details in Section 4.5.4 4.5.4 A limited carbon footprint In 2017, building on the achievements of the Paris Agreement The Group has also made improvements to its “Climate” and the United Nations COP23 conference, Essilor renewed program, in three areas: its commitment to limit its greenhouse gas emissions and º monitoring the main sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) maintain its position as a low-carbon business. With this in emissions; mind, the Group signed up to the French Climate Pledge, along with 91 other French companies which have º mitigating GHG emissions; committed, over the next three years, to limit their impact on º adapting to climate change. the climate, notably by financing energy efficiency programs, optimizing their production equipment and logistics chains, and innovating in the field of low-carbon products and services. 4.5.4.1 Monitoring the main sources of GHG emissions In 2017, the Group took a very proactive approach to All this work follows the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” (GHG measure the GHG generated by its operations, conducting Protocol), the international set of standards for greenhouse two complementary initiatives: gas accounting. Under this Protocol, there are three º Improving the way the main GHG emissions categories categories: published in this document are measured, by consolidating º Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that the data collection channels and by extending the are owned or controlled by the company; reporting scope; º Scope 2 – GHG emissions from the generation of purchased º Assessing the Group’s overall carbon footprint, taking into energy (e.g.: purchased electricity) consumed by the account all sources of emissions across the value chain. company; º Scope 3 – all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. 260 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DERIVING FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION (SCOPE 1 AND 2) Since 2015, Essilor has been working on an extended reporting scope for its greenhouse gas emissions, and has reviewed the associated calculation methodology. The Group uses the main emissions factors via the databases of the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (www.ademe.fr). 2017 2016 2015 TOTAL SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS (UNITS: TCO2EQ) 462,618 395,093 348,542 Scope 1 21,050 17,470 16,743 Gas 17,102 13,661 13,841 Liquid fuel 3,948 3,809 2,902 Scope 2 441,568 377,623 331,799 Electricity 441,4568 377,623 331,799 Note: The increase in GHG emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) in 2017 was mainly due to the expansion of the reporting scope. With the same reporting scope, the Group’s GHG emissions only rose by 4%, mainly due to the energy consumption increase in certain countries with high carbon emission factors (China, India, Laos). 50,100 462,618 395,093 348,542 17,425 4 331,799 377,623 441,568 16,743 17,471 21,050 2015 2016 Variation Score 2017 on same scope impact Scope 1 Scope 2 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 261 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DERIVING FROM TRANSPORTATION (SCOPE 3) Three main sources of emissions were defined: of transportation and has been continuously integrating º primary transportation: flows to a distribution center or more subsidiaries and locations in the reporting scope. offshore prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of The 2017 emissions cover 30 mass production plants, five origin; offshore prescription laboratories and 7 distribution centers, º secondary transportation: flows to a subsidiary, regardless covering most locations of the Group’s lenses business with of the point of origin; international transportation flows. The increase in reporting scope has an impact of 8% of the total 2017 emission. º tertiary transportation: flows to the customer, regardless of the point of origin. Based on the same reporting scope of 2016, Group emissions linked to logistics activity has increased by 15% due to the Since 2015, to focus on the material impacts, the Group has increase of transported volume and relocation and been working with a reference reporting scope in terms of reorganization of certain logistic centers. The group aims to volume and geographical coverage, covering all three types reduce the GHG emission linked to logistics activities in the coming years. 2017 2016 2015 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSPORTATION (UNITS: TCO2EQ) 281,988 226,371 207,915 Development factors Impact related to transported volume & reorganization of logistics flows 260,876 226,371 Impact of reporting scope expansion 21,112 ASSESSING THE GROUP’S OVERALL CARBON This work has enabled us to: FOOTPRINT º confirm that our current reference reporting scope, with a As previously stated, in 2017, Essilor performed its first total of 744,606 t, is consistent, representing 28% of our global carbon assessment of its business. On the basis of the total estimated footprint; structure and the data from the GHG reporting (see previous º provide more detailed information on the largest sources paragraph), the Group has taken into account all sources of of emissions; emissions along its value chain (raw materials, transportation º improve our knowledge of Scope 3 so as to begin dialogue to customers, depreciation of buildings, end of product life, with our stakeholders (transporters, suppliers, etc.); etc.). The Group’s carbon footprint is estimated at 2.7 million tCO2eq, across all scopes (Scopes 1, 2 & 3). º identify the next focus areas in terms of reporting; º confirm Essilor’s positioning as a low-carbon company. 262 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint 4.5.4.2 Mitigation 4.5.4.3 Adapting to the consequences of climate While implementing its growth strategy, the Group is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its change operations, particularly its carbon footprint. Reducing the Group’s GHG emissions is also an opportunity Essilor was one of the first signatories of the United Nations’ to reduce the associated costs (energy, transportation), limit Caring for Climate initiative in 2007, and – being aware from energy dependence (even if realtively moderately), a very early stage of the effects of climate change – it has anticipate the application of binding climate agreements gradually included these effects in its operations. As such, (taxes, quotas) and meet the expectations of investors and analyzing the consequences of climate change on Essilor’s financial institutions, as well as of key account customers in operations is part of managing operational risks at the this area. Group’s manufacturing plants and those of its strategic suppliers. The Group assesses these risks and integrates The analysis of GHG emissions shows that there are three them into its overall risk management strategy so that it can main sources of emissions: seek the most appropriate solutions. º transportation between suppliers, plants, laboratories and The main risks identified are: customers; º severe weather events (cyclones, hurricanes and typhoons) º purchasing, including basic materials to manufacture the which can cause damage to plants and slow down the lenses; logistics chain; º the energy used at the lens production plants and º periods of extreme drought, which may affect water prescription laboratories. availability; As regards transportation, the Group continues to optimize º or inversely, an increase in the frequency and intensity of its supply chain by favoring regional flows between the precipitation, which may slow down production processes production plants and the prescription laboratories, by and potentially threat employee security; increasing the use of sea transportation and reducing the use º finally, fluctuating costs of energy and raw materials (e.g.: of air transportation and by requiring logistics subcontractors to use more environmentally-friendly transportation methods. additional taxes on fossil energy, carbon tax levy, etc…). Essilor has defined two focus areas in response to climate 4 As part of its Supplier Sustainability program (see 4.6.3), change: Essilor also works in partnership with its suppliers to improve º Managing operational risks: a major focus area, broken the environmental profile of its products (e.g.: using less down into three complementary components: packaging, eco-design) to reduce the associated carbon º environmental audit prior to acquisition of any new footprint. business partner, to assess their exposure to climate Finally, at its plants and laboratories, Essilor has change, implemented an ambitious energy efficiency program, º improvement to the environmental management system “Reboost Energy” (see 4.5.3). at the plants by implementing specific action plans to ensure better prevention of and adaptation to all climatic risks. As such, the Group pays close attention to the choice of location for its industrial facilities, º business continuity plan to ensure that production and business activity continues, even in the case of a weather event that could slow down a production plant or disrupt the logistics chain; º Developing the product range: eye protection needs in response to a context where climate change may impact the quantity or nature of harmful rays have not yet been evaluated with sufficient precision. However, the protective function of the corrective lens may be incorporated, particularly as a response to the harmful nature of ultraviolet light in general, which is filtered by Xperio® lenses and several other ranges of sun lenses with different E-SPF® index values. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 263 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint 4.5.5 A circular economy approach to raw material optimization and waste management Essilor mainly uses resins, monomers, minerals and chemical products in the manufacture of lenses. It also buys in packaging products (cardboard, plastic casing, plastic film, etc.). 2017 2016 2015 (@) (@) Materials used (tons) 21,110 18,000 16,700 (@) Note: resins, monomers, minerals. Environmental impact studies, for the most part based on Essilor is pursuing this as part of a more comprehensive life-cycle analyses conducted in 2017, show that Essilor’s circular economy approach. For example: operations do not present any risks of discharges into the air, º in 2017, the Group introduced reusable shuttle packaging, water and ground which could seriously affect the known as “Bulkpack”, between the manufacturing plants environment. However, these activities generate special and the laboratories, significantly reducing packaging waste, which must be handled and processed in a particular waste; way. º Essilor has also analyzed waste generation at its main For many years now, Essilor has been committed to a plants, export laboratories and the 15 largest prescription strategy which combines improvement to manufacturing laboratories. This work involved mapping the amount and yields (quality management, continuous improvement, type of waste, as well as the associated processing eco-design, etc.) with the promotion of the “3Rs”: Reducing solutions. It became apparent that the structures of the volume of materials used in the various processes existing local waste treatment measures play an important (manufacture, distribution), Reuse and Recycle raw materials role when it comes to managing waste sorting at Group and packaging. sites; To cite a few examples by way of illustration: º Essilor’s environmentally-responsible paper policy has º the use of cupless cardboard boxes; these offer a number received recognition by WWF France. Essilor improved its of benefits, including dispensing with the plastic cup performance since it was ranked 8th in the PAP50 survey in previously used for the semi-finished lens, without altering 2013. Its paper use per employee has fallen by 19%; over the level of protection; 300 tons of papers have been recycled and its recycling º the development by the Equipment Division of a system for rate is close to 100%. blocking lenses in surfacing operations which breaks with The prevention and reduction of air discharges are taken into existing technologies and paves the way for the gradual account whenever relevant. For example, the Group’s entities replacement by all market players of conventional blocking invest in devices to treat volatile organic compound (VOC) systems, some of which use metal alloys; emissions, ranging from simple on-site extractors to º the compacting of polycarbonate shavings and residues computer-controlled biofilters and activated carbon filters or from the surfacing process to reduce the weight of waste similar devices adapted as needed. They set objectives and and recover water, which is then filtered and reinjected into targets for the reduction of existing discharges. the prescription laboratory’s in-house system; The possibility of discharges into soil that would be likely to º partnerships with waste managers for incineration of waste impact the environment, even slightly, has been assessed with recovery of the energy; and has led to the implementation of appropriate prevention measures, such as retention devices to deal with accidental º recycling by subcontractors of certain used effluents (oils, spills or the outfitting and special management of chemical acids etc.), for reuse in Group facilities. storage premises. Essilor entities also have a waste sorting system to manage their ordinary and special industrial waste. This waste is recorded and taken away by certified specialist companies. Lastly, Essilor believes that combating food waste is a collective challenge, even if it is not a challenge for the Group in the context of its own activities. However, the Group still educates its employees about this issue. 264 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Optimizing the environmental footprint Total volume of waste 2017 2016 2015 TOTAL WASTE (UNITS: T) 43,994 34,683 27,113 Ordinary (non-hazardous) waste 36,825 27,328 21,139 Recycled/Recovered 15,322 10,875 9,947 Not recycled/not recovered 21,503 16,453 11,192 Special (hazardous) waste 7,169 7,355 5,974 Recycled/Recovered 3,378 2,434 N/A Not recycled/not recovered 3,791 4,921 N/A Note: The increase of waste of 2017 is mainly because of the expansion of reporting perimeter, which covers 82% of the group headcount. With the same scope of 2016, waste increased by less than 1%. Larger participate rate and the expand of perimeter has an impact of 21% of the total waste. WASTE (T) 9,105 43,994 3,791 3,378 34,684 7,355 205 205 4 27,114 21,503 5,974 16,453 11,192 9,947 10,875 15,322 2015 2016 Variation Scope 2017 on same scope impact Non hazardous waste recycled/recovered Non hazardous waste not recycled/recovered Hazardous waste recycled/recovered Hazardous waste not recycled/recovered Accidental spills 2017 2016 2015 Number of accidental spills 1 2 2 Note: In 2017, there was one accidental chemical spill. This spill was dealt with immediately and had no significant environmental or social impact. Actions and remediation plans were implemented. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 265 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Working with society SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.6 Working with society As Essilor has grown internationally, it has based its success and Values. In 2015, the Group decided to make on the proper consideration of local impacts, dialogue with improvements in this area by appointing a Chief Compliance stakeholders and the creation of shared value with partners, Officer and putting together a network of local suppliers, governments and local communities. The correspondents. establishment of Essilor sites provides access to meaningful Finally, as an industry leader, Essilor is highly vigilant with jobs in a buoyant sector and generates significant direct and regard to compliance with competition rules and takes care indirect income. The Group’s Principles & Values are the to prevent conflicts of interest. foundation of all business relations, ensuring fair and honest collaboration which is transparent for stakeholders. To promote fairness in its business practices, Essilor International has introduced procedures which are As a signatory of the Global Compact, Essilor has undertaken formalized in a number of documents: to promote the ten universally accepted principles relating to human rights, labor standards, the environment and the fight º the Essilor Principles and Values formalize the general against corruption. Essilor also contributes to the United conduct rules to be followed by every employee; Nations Sustainable Development Goals through its Mission. º a Code of ethics, available in the first quarter of 2018, Within Essilor’s scope of consolidation, this undertaking is reaffirms that Essilor is accomplishing its mission to reflected in internal control procedures to prevent, detect “improve lives by improving sight”, driven by its Principles and remedy any situations that undermine integrity and the and Values. This Code will be deployed through principle of free competition as well as in employee face-to-face training for managers and employees, management procedures that comply with best practices. supplemented by e-learning training. It will then be asked With its partners, the Group ensures that it does not work to acknowledge receipt of the Code and its understanding with entities that fail to respect the provision of decent by all employees; working conditions for their employees, employ people º the Minimum Control Standards (MCS) formally enshrine below the local legal age or prohibit employee 80 internal controls which are generally considered to be representation. the most crucial to have in place. Brochures explaining these procedures to employees have been translated into 32 languages. The MCS also form the basis of the annual self-assessment questionnaire for internal control; 4.6.1 Fair business practices º the Group Standards Guide, which brings together the various rules of internal control covering the main Group-level organizational processes; Given the diversity of the countries in which Essilor operates, the Company has to remain vigilant to changes in local labor º detailed rules and policies (local, regional and/or Group and environmental regulations. level); This requires a specific organizational structure, ongoing º ad hoc working groups devoted to the implementation of monitoring and close collaboration between the Legal specific regulations, such as REACH, UK Bribery, the Affairs, HR and Environment/Operations functions. Modern Slavery Act, Devoir de vigilance and California Proposition 65; Given its business activity and its commitment as a responsible company, Essilor has to combat all forms of º development of a formal competition law compliance corruption and fraud, particularly in geographic areas that program; are sensitive to this type of risk. º preparation and implementation of a formal Group This entails devising a system to prevent risks of corruption corruption prevention guide, explaining the common rules and training employees in how to apply it properly, in and principles to be observed throughout the Group in compliance with local regulations and the Essilor Principles addition to local laws. 266 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Working with society 7.4 billion people. Through its mission, operations and Prevention of corruption organization, Essilor plays a role in protecting a fundamental human right: access to visual health. Its expertise, global The sector in which Essilor operates is not considered a presence and capacity for innovation have resulted in more sector in which corruption is a characteristic challenge. This than a billion people worldwide already wearing Essilor does not prevent the Group from taking action within its products. sphere of influence against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As a signatory to the Global Compact and member of Transparency International, Essilor complies with, supports and promotes the UN convention against Respect for human rights along the corruption and ensures compliance with local regulations. entire value chain Tools for training on and raising awareness of the different forms of corruption have been rolled out via audio kits Essilor’s commitment to the respect and promotion of available on the intranet; training in local languages is human rights was formally marked by its signing of the provided as a suite of programs for raising awareness which United Nations Global Compact; a commitment which has are steadily filtering down from the Group’s Executive been renewed every year since its first signing in 2003 and Committee. With infrequent exceptions as a result of very which is supported at the highest level in the Company, by recent hires or other extraordinary events, all Directors of the the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The ten principles Group have been made aware of and trained in the of the Global Compact concerning human rights, working prevention of corruption and conflicts of interest, via conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption e-learning. This is complemented by classroom-based have thus been applied and continually reinforced for nearly training programs, where necessary. 15 years. EthicsLine, the internal warning system – which covers Moreover, the development in recent years of international different areas (HR, CSR, legal, finance) within the limits set standards has informed the Group’s approach. Since 2010 by local regulations – available throughout the Group is part and the adoption of several international laws, human rights of this corruption prevention effort. Accessible to every must be a core focus of any responsible corporate policy. employee, it can also be used to seek advice on other human Accordingly, Essilor has decided to base its sustainable rights-related issues (data protection, sexual harassment, safety, etc.). development approach on the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Furthermore, the 4 Group complies in particular with the English law, the Compliance with competition rules “Modern Slavery Act” (of which the statement by the Chairman is available on www.essilor.com) and with the “duty of care” law adopted in France in 2017. More generally, The Group’s legal risk prevention policy is structured around Essilor makes every effort to ensure that its activities comply the three main risks associated with its business activity. As with the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles such, for Essilor, a major player in its market, compliance on fundamental rights set out in the International Labor with the rules of competition law and commercial practices is Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and an essential pillar of its risk prevention policy. The Rights at Work. compliance program has been formally established and its rollout allows the Group to promote and reinforce good In accordance with our “Principles and Values”, Essilor competition law practices in trade relations with Group complies with the laws and regulations applicable in the partners and stakeholders. countries in which it operates. The Group also operates in some geographic regions which have been identified as “sensitive” where regulations and the enforcement of laws on human rights may be poor. Essilor is committed to doing 4.6.2 The Group’s business in compliance with international standards on the protection of human rights, and to take continuous action to commitment and prevent any negative impacts on human rights and remedy them should they arise. vigilant approach to As part of this process the Group regularly updates and human rights improves its policies, commitments, procedures and actions in order to remain vigilant at all times to the consequences of its activities (including its value chain) upon human-rights. In 2014 the Group realized a first mapping of human rights-related risks as linked to the Group’s activities; this led A Mission that helps promote to a better understanding of the challenges involved in each type of business activity (lenses, equipment, Sunglasses & human rights Readers) and in each geographic region, for human rights issues where Essilor could have an impact. On the basis of Seeing well is essential for daily wellbeing and good quality that analysis, Essilor spent several months working with of life. Good vision allows an individual to acquire human rights experts and stakeholders to identify priority knowledge, access employment and integrate socially within actions to strengthen its vigilance approach. Today, this their environment. That is why Essilor’s teams are active approach consists of the Group’s human rights vigilance worldwide in their drive to “improve lives by improving plan, required by the recent French law on the “duty of care” sight” with the aim of providing better vision to the world’s for parent and subcontracting companies. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 267 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Working with society In 2017, Essilor set up a Group-wide operational working constructive dialogue with them and develop a durable, group made up of the heads of Human Resources, balanced relationship with respect for ethics and social and Purchasing, Sustainable Development, EHS, Compliance, and environmental issues. internal experts to improve its policy and vigilance plan to The Purchasing Department bases its supplier relationships ensure the respect and promotion of human rights. The on its Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP), which has two policy has five dimensions: components. º commitment: by publishing a Code of ethics aimed at all The first is sustainable purchasing, the goal of which is to the Group’s employees, particularly managers; assess suppliers’ CSR performance by ensuring that: Furthermore, Essilor strives to conduct its supplier º all listed suppliers and subcontractors comply with the relationships in an exemplary fashion and in accordance with principles set out in the Supplier Charter (see Essilor.com), its Principles and Values. The Group’s Supplier Charter, and from a contractual standpoint, comply with general available at www.essilor.com, describes the four guidelines to purchasing conditions, which include clauses on the be followed; one of these is respect for human rights and obligation to comply with the International Labor labor standards. See Section 4.6.3; Organisation’s Fundamental Conventions and local º identifying and managing risks: by completing new risk legislation, particularly as regards minimum wage, working mapping of Essilor’s operations and suppliers to prioritize hours, the environment and health and safety, and on the the Group’s actions. In parallel, the Purchasing Department protection of human rights (forced labor, child labor, etc.); performs “field” audits of its suppliers during which respect º the CSR performance of suppliers and subcontractors for human rights is discussed; (representing 80% of overall expenditure) complies with º raising awareness and training for employees: via the Group’s requirements. In this regard, the Purchasing dedicated e-learning modules on the “Essilor U” platform, Department assesses their performance by means of a as well as classroom-based training; shared evaluation platform run by EcoVadis; º an alert mechanism: in 2017, Essilor rolled out the alert º risk management is addressed by regular, systematic system already in place in North and South America across assessments of all listed suppliers. In the event of suspicion, the whole Group. This system, called EthicsLine, allows the Purchasing Department will trigger on-site audits and employees to report any concerns they may have, requires suppliers to take remedial action if the risk is including on human rights, via a secure website; proven. º reporting: Essilor includes performance indicators on The second component is responsible purchasing, the goal of human rights in its Sustainable Development reports, which is to relay Essilor’s Mission and encourage its suppliers particularly those specified by the Global Reporting to embark on initiatives, alone or with others that will have a Initiative (GRI). By monitoring these indicators, Essilor positive impact on people and the environment. The evaluates the effectiveness of the risk prevention initiatives following are some examples: it has implemented. º promoting World Sight Day: in 2017, the Purchasing team This working group coordinates action plans and monitors held a series of events for suppliers and their employees to measures in place related to human rights. The working raise awareness about the importance of good eyesight group reports on the results of its work to the Global and highlighted this issue on their own social networks. Sustainable Development Steering Committee, which Over 50 suppliers in 15 countries (Europe, Asia, North and oversees the implementation of the Group’s commitments. South America) across various sectors (e.g.: transportation, See Section 4.2.2. IT, catering services, etc.) took part in this initiative. This Essilor has also joined the French association Entreprises resulted in around 500 sight tests being carried out and pour les Droits de l’Homme – EDH (Companies for Human over 1 million people being made aware of the issue via Rights) to share best practice and improve the Group’s social media; approach. EDH provides tools and advice on implementing º local inclusive purchasing programs (developing business the United Nations Guiding Principles on human rights. in the protected worker sector, local sourcing to boost the For information about EHS and environmental risks more local economy in all countries where Essilor operates, specifically, see Sections 4.4.1 and 4.5 of this document. increased purchasing from suppliers representing minorities); º free services negotiated with one of our digital marketing agencies to overhaul the website of our Essilor Vision 4.6.3 Sustainable Foundation™; purchasing in supplier º eco-design (development of cardboard-only packaging instead of a mix of cardboard and plastic, such as the relations “Cupless®” concept); º use of bio-sourced materials in the manufacture of frames; º fitting equipment at our manufacturing plants to reduce Essilor maintains mutually-beneficial relations with its water and energy use, or recycle it (solar panels, increased suppliers and subcontractors: they are essential partners in use of renewable energy, etc.); its operations and growth, and the Group supports their º analysis of the life cycle of the main raw materials used to performance by helping them, particularly in the field of manufacture the lenses. international expansion. Essilor therefore seeks to establish 268 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Working with society Finally, a CSR Purchasing training program aimed at the In 2017, Essilor won the international Corporate Social Group’s entire Purchasing Department has been introduced Responsibility category at the 2017 World Procurement across all regions. In 2017, 50% of the team had already Awards for its purchasing policy due to the Supplier received this training. Sustainability Program. In 2018, the Purchasing Department plans to provide its The Group aims to perform external CSR audits with all suppliers with training tools to better understand the CSR strategic suppliers, and to ensure that all preferred suppliers issues and objectives. comply with the principles of the Essilor Supplier Charter by 2020. 4.6.4 Sustainable product marketing Essilor has to market products with stated levels of quality and performance that meet customers’ needs most effectively. º to satisfy customers, in terms of products and services, Quality & Customer satisfaction taking into account the diversity and variety of expectations according to customer segments; The ongoing improvement in the satisfaction of the Group’s customers is driven in particular by product and service º to improve the effectiveness and consistency of internal quality control. This is a major factor when it comes to processes, aligning them with the overall strategic guaranteeing stable costs, limiting legal risks and objectives and measuring their efficiency; strengthening the Group’s reputation. º to represent the Essilor Group on standards bodies to The Quality and Customer Satisfaction Department reports promote the interests of consumers on these bodies (e.g., directly to the Senior Vice President, Global Engineering and ISO). liaises with the Group’s innovation platform. It has three key aims: 4 2017 2016 2015 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with 0 0 0 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Responsible marketing Essilor’s responsibility is to communicate clearly and º furthermore, Essilor is active in ensuring that the sales honestly the visual care benefits of its products, in networks provide honest, accurate information to compliance with all regulations. This transparency is at the customers on the benefits of Essilor products. Regular heart of the relationship of trust that Essilor has built with its training (classroom or online) is provided for the sales customers and helps to build an intangible asset for the force and eye care professionals to remind them of the Company. To this end, the action taken by the Group current standards and the rules of integrity in customer comprises four areas of work: relations. Each of the Group’s distribution subsidiaries º responsible marketing initiatives aim to ensure that monitors its own compliance with local applicable laws, product-related communication is accurate and complies standards and voluntary codes; with the regulations on advertising. This responsibility is º lastly, honest communication also calls for transparency in exercised in conjunction with local authorities and the public positions that the Group adopts in its dealings consumer associations, which notify Essilor customers of with the authorities and professional associations and for potential discrepancies with the claimed benefits of the the consistency of these positions with the targets for products. Essilor has developed a platform called “The sustainable development. In accordance with French law, Media Place”, which contains templates and “marketing the Company has no political involvement. It works with its packs” approved by the Group for use by all entities, to local public sector stakeholders and participates in the ensure overall consistency; development of international standards and in other work º Essilor has also implemented a process to substantiate the relating to its areas of business. It also belongs to claims of its products to ensure that for each one (i) there professional associations for its industry whose mission is is evidence to support the claim and (ii) the performance to improve awareness of the importance of good vision. of the products in a laboratory is also maintained during The Group is a member of ASNAV, Association manufacture. The benefits of Group products are based on Interprofessionnelle pour l’Amélioration de la Vue extensive wearer tests and usage tests either in real life or (interprofessional association for improving vision), of under experimental conditions. For example, Essilor has GIFO, a French optical industry group, of the EUROM 1 opened a House Lab and a Car Lab to test the performance European optical industry group and of the Vision Council of its products in real-life settings; in the United States. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 269 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Working with society Over and above its economic contribution, Essilor’s Mission 4.6.5 Direct and indirect helps to improve the quality of life and the productivity of millions of individuals by correcting their sight. A key socioeconomic contributor to this shared value creation, the Group’s 2.5 NVG Division deploys inclusive business models to provide contribution local vision correction at an affordable price for low-income populations in 45 countries in Asia, Latin America and Africa (see Section 4.3). Essilor stimulates local economies with its industrial activities, purchasing, and business partnerships, creates Essilor has appoinFted a third-party expert to measure the direct and indirect employment, develops local skills and social impact of its Eye Mitra™ program, which aims to expertise, and generates taxes and duties. provide primary eye care to populations in rural and semi-urban areas of India through the development of local The first lever for action was to priorities local employment. micro-enterprises by individuals who are underemployed. The Group encourages the local recruitment of management The challenge is considerable: in 2013, it was estimated that teams in its subsidiaries and, more generally, enforces the 550 million people in India needed visual correction and the principle of local decision-making. associated overall productivity loss was estimated at US$37 The Group also generates significant business flows with its billion a year. local suppliers by preferring short supply chains for products Conducted in six provinces of the Uttar Pradesh region in and services outside the scope of central referencing. north-east India, the study identifies three main impacts: Local distributors of products and services referenced by º a boost to the local economy, with an average of US$770 Group contracts also benefit from the local economic impact in income generated for suppliers and SMEs for each of the Group’s purchasing. The result is a balanced situation, participant in the Eye Mitra™ program; the Group estimating that 50% of its procurement is sourced º an increase in income of 64% for Eye Mitra™ partners, who centrally and 50% locally. also feel more respected in their community; The Group’s economic value breaks down into many (1) º growth in productivity for 59% of new eyeglass wearers , components (revenue, operating expenses, salaries and expenses, donations, taxes and duties, dividends, etc.) that who gain an average of one-and-a-half hours a day in their are available in this 2017 Registration Document. daily tasks. Essilor’s socio-economic footprint for fiscal year 2017 can be Lastly, besides the actions targeting its core business and led summarized by the following items in descending order of by the Mission teams (2.5 NVG and Essilor Vision importance: Foundation), several Group entities conduct other charitable initiatives that generally involve issues of public health, º revenue: €7,490 million; education and integration. º suppliers: €3,300 million; º employees/compensation: €2,298 million; º shareholders: €364 million; º duties and taxes: €132 million, representing a tax rate of 13.0%; and º financial expenses: €49 million. (1) 75% of women who buy their glasses from an Eye MitraTM partner are doing so for the first time. 270 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables 4.7 Methodology note & correspondence tables 4.7.1 Methodology note Scope of reporting Method for calculating GHG emissions According to the Group reporting protocol, new entities acquired for less than one year are granted one year before In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the accounting and being integrated into the Group reporting system. This year, reporting standard for greenhouse gas emissions by including in particular the recently-acquired entities, the (http://www.ghgprotocol.org), information on GHG non-financial reporting covers 100% of the Group entities, emissions is communicated on the basis of three scopes: exceeding its commitment to reach a target of 85% in 2017. Scope 1, 2 and 3. Four entities representing less than 100 employees (0.01%) were exempted from non-financial reporting in 2017 for the In 2017, the Group continued to follow the GHG Protocol following reasons: one entity in Miami was affected by standard and used the databases of the Agence française de hurricane Irma and three entities stopped their activity at the l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Énergie end of 2017. Given the specific cases above, Essilor considers (www.ademe.fr/) for conversion factors. that the 2017 non-financial reporting covers 100% of the Group’s entities and workforce. This significant increase compared with previous years is in line with our target to Scope 1 – This corresponds to direct emissions resulting from the on-site combustion of fossil fuels such as gas or fuel oil. 4 The GHG conversion factors were in accordance with the achieve a 100% coverage rate by 2020. Reporting coverage ADEME database (http://bilans-ges.ademe.fr): of each indicator has been specified in the footnote of each º Gas: 244 gCO2e/kWh LCV; indicator. º Liquid fuel: 324 gCO2e/kWh LCV. Scope 2 – This relates to indirect emissions associated with Calculated Indicators the electricity consumption required for manufacturing and machining lenses. The Scope 2 emission was calculated As defined in the Group’s reporting protocol: according to the location-based method of the GHG Protocol. The conversion factors for electricity were updated º the frequency rate is calculated as: Number of work-related in 2015 based on figures provided by the ADEME database. injuries with lost days x 1,000,000/total number of worked hours during the reporting period; the total number of The conversion factors for the main countries where Essilor worked hours is theoretical worked hours based on is a consumer of electricity are: calculation of scheduled working days and average number º China: 766 gCO2e/kWh; of hours worked per day; º United States: 522 gCO2e/kWh; º the severity rate is calculated as: Total number of lost days º France: 82 gCO2e/kWh; (calendar days) x 1,000/total number of hours worked over the reporting period; the total number of worked hours is º Thailand: 513 gCO2e/kWh; theoretical worked hours based on calculation of º Philippines: 481 gCO2e/kWh. scheduled working days and average number of hours Scope 3 – This corresponds to other indirect emissions worked per day; related to the transportation of lenses. For lens logistics, º the voluntary turnover rate is calculated as “total number Essilor redefined the various types of transportation and of voluntary departures (resignation)/average number of freight in 2015 to include journeys between Essilor sites and employees during the reporting period” based on a airports, ports or railway stations. representative sample; Transportation is classified as follows: º the absenteeism rate is calculated as “total number of lost º primary transportation: flows to a distribution center or days (working day) / total scheduled working days of all offshore prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of the employees during the reporting period”. origin; º secondary transportation: flows to a subsidiary, regardless of the point of origin; º tertiary transportation: flows to the customer, regardless of the point of origin. The reporting scope covers all three types of transportation. Essilor has successfully integrated the transportation of new products and locations into the 2017 Report. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 271 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables 4.7.2 Correspondence table for the criteria of the Grenelle 2 law Reference SOCIAL Employment Total headcount and distribution by gender, by age and by geographic zone 4.4 Recruitments and redundancies 4.4 Remuneration and their evolution 4.4 and 4.6.5 Organization of labor Working time organization 4.4.1 Absenteeism 4.4.1 Labor / management relations Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, consultation and negotiation with the employees 4.4.4 Summary of collective agreements 4.4.4 Health and safety Occupational health and safety conditions 4.4.1 Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions or worker representatives on work place health and safety 4.4.4 Occupational accidents, including accident frequency and severity, and occupational diseases 4.4.1 Training Policies implemented regarding training 4.4.2 Total number of training hours 4.4.2 Equal opportunities Measures implemented to promote gender equality 4.4.3 Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled people 4.4.3 Policy against discriminations 4.4.3 Promotion and upholding of the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor Organization on The freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4.4.4 and 4.6.2 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 4.4.3 and 4.6.2 The elimination of all forms of forced labor 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 The abolition of child labor 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 ENVIRONMENT General environmental policy The organization of the Company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues 4.5.1 Information and training measures for employees regarding the protection of the environment 4.5.1 Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and pollution 4.5.1 Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks, unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the Company in an ongoing litigation 4.5.1 272 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables Reference Pollution Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges into the air, water and ground, impacting severely the environment 4.5.1, 4.5.2, 4.5.4 et 4.5.5 Consideration of noise and of any other activity specific pollution 4.5.1 Circular economy (i) Waste prevention and management Measures of prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and disposal of waste 4.5.5 Actions against food waste ii) Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and water supply adapted to local constraints 4.5.2 Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to improve efficiency in their use 4.5.5 Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy efficiency and renewable energy use 4.5.3 Land use 4.5.1 Climate change Significant greenhouse gas emissions items generated as a result of the Group’s activity, particularly by the use of goods and services they provide 4.5.4 Adaptation to consequences of climate change 4.5.4 Biodiversity protection Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity SOCIETAL 4.5.1 4 Regional, economic and social impact of the Company’s activities Impact on employment and regional development 4.6.5, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 Impact on local populations 4.6.5, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 Relations with stakeholders, including associations of integration, educational institutes, associations for the protection of the Environment, consumers organization and local populations Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders 4.1.1 Actions of partnership and sponsorship 4.3.1, 4.3.3, 4.3.4 Subcontractors and suppliers Integration of social and environmental issues into the Company procurement policy 4.6.3 Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility 4.6.3 Fair practices Action implemented against corruption 4.6.1 Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety 4.3.1, 4.3.2 and 4.6.4 Other initiatives undertaken to promote human rights Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 273 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables 4.7.3 Correspondence table for the Guidelines of the GRI, SDGs and UNGC Following the recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and United Nation Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), all the indicators and information disclosed in this chapter have been reviewed and audited by PwC according to the modalities explained in the ITO Report in appendix 4.7.8. GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference GENERAL DISCLOSURES (THE LIST OF GENERAL DISCLOSURES HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE “CORE” OPTION) Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization. 5.1.1 102-2 A description of the organization’s activities and 1.3 primary trademarks, products, and services. 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 5.1.1 102-4 Number of countries where the organization 1.3.1.3 operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5.1.3 and 5.2.1.1 102-6 Report the markets served (including geographic 1.2, 1.3 and 1.5.1 breakdown, sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries). 102-7 Scale of the organization, including total number Key figures in the of employees, number of operations, net sales, introduction to the total capitalization, quantity of products or Registration services provided. Document and 3.3 102-8 Principle 6 Detailed information on employees and other 4.4 workers. 102-9 A description of the organization’s supply chain, 1.3.1.3 and 4.1.1 including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, 1.5.1, 1.5.2, 1.5.3 and 1.5.4 structure, ownership, or supply chain. 102-11 Whether and how the organization applies the 2.2.3.3 and 4.6.4 Precautionary Principle or approach. 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, Methodology note environmental and social charters, principles, or in Chapter 4 and other initiatives to which the organization Section 4.6.1 subscribes, or which it endorses. 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or 4.3.1 and 4.3.4 other associations, and national or international advocacy organizations. Strategy 102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker Introduction of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or Chapter 4 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. 274 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Ethics and integrity 102-16 Principle 10 A description of the organization’s values, 4.6.1 principles, standards, and norms of behavior. Governance 102-18 Report the governance structure of the 2.1 and 4.2.1 organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.1.1 the organization. 102-41 Principle 3 Report the percentage of total employees 4.4.4 covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Report the basis for identification and selection of 4.1.1 stakeholders with whom to engage. 102-43 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder 4.1.1 engagement. 102-44 Report key topics and concerns that have been 4.1.1 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Reporting practice the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns. 4 102-45 a. List all entities included in the organization’s Note 2.2 of consolidated financial statements or equivalent Chapter 3 documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not considered by the report. 102-46 a. An explanation of the process for defining the 4.2.3 and 4.7.1 report content and the topic Boundaries. b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in the 4.1.2 process for defining report content. 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information 4.4 and 4.5 given in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting 4.2.3 periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. 4.2.3 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report (if any). 2015 Registration Document covering fiscal year 2015 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 4.2.3 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions regarding invest@essilor.com the report or its contents. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 4.7.3 Standards. 102-55 The GRI content index, which specifies each of the 4.7.3 GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. 102-56 Report the organization’s policy and current 4.8 practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 275 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference MATERIAL TOPICS 103-1 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. 4.1 of the 2014 b. The Boundary for the material topic, which Registration includes a description of where the impacts occur Document and and the organization’s involvement with the 4.1.2 impacts. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 Principle 1 For each material topic, the reporting Description of the Principle 8 organization shall report. managerial a. An explanation of how the organization approach for each manages the topic. issue b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component (Policies, Commitments, Goals and targets, Responsibilities, Resources, Grievance mechanisms, Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives). 103-3 For each material topic, the reporting Description of the organization shall report an explanation of how managerial the organization evaluates the management approach for each approach. issue SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 4.6.5 201-2 Principle 7 Financial implications and other risks and 4.5.4 opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 4.3, 4.3.1, 4.3.2, supported. 4.3.3, 4.3.4 and 2015 “See Change Report” 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts. 4.3, 4.3.1, 4.3.3, 4.3.4, 4.6.5 and 2015 “See Change Report” Anti-corruption 205-2 Principle 10 Communication and training on anti-corruption 4.6.1 policies and procedures. Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Note 26 of anti-trust, and monopoly practices. Section 3.4, 4.6.1 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume. 4.5.5 Energy 302-1 Principle 7 Energy consumption within the organization. 4.5.3 Principle 8 302-2 Principle 8 Energy consumption outside of the organization. 4.5.3 302-5 Principle 8 Reductions in energy requirements of products 4.3.2 Principle 9 and services. 276 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Water 303-1 Principle 7 Water withdrawal by source, both a total figure 4.5.2 Principle 8 for ‘volume of water withdrawn’ and a breakdown of this figure by each of the sources listed. 303-2 Principle 8 Water sources significantly affected by 4.5.2 withdrawal of water. Biodiversity 304-1 Principle 8 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 4.5.1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Emissions 305-1 Principle 7 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 4.5.4 Principle 8 305-2 Principle 7 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 4.5.4 Principle 8 (Scope 2). Report gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, and gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions if applicable. Report standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 305-3 Principle 7 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 4.5.4 4 Principle 8 (Scope 3). Effluents and waste 306-1 Principle 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 4.5.2 306-2 Principle 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 4.5.5 method, with the breakdown of hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste; the breakdown of these figures by disposal methods (e.g., reuse, recycling, composting) is to be reported where applicable. 306-3 Principle 8 Total number and volume of significant spills. 4.5.5 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Principle 8 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 4.5.1 regulations. Employment 401-1 Principle 6 New employee hires and employee turnover. 4.4 Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 4.4.1 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. Training and education 404-1 Principle 6 Average hours of training per year per employee 4.4.2 by gender, and by employee category. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 4.4.2 transition assistance programs. Diversity and equal opportunities 405-1 Principle 6 Composition of governance bodies and 2.2.1.1 and 4.4 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 277 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodology note & correspondence tables GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Non-discrimination 406-1 Principle 6 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 4.4.3 taken. Child Labor 408-1 Principle 5 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 incidents of child labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Principle 4 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Local Communities 413-2 Principle 1 Operations with significant actual and potential 4.5.2 and 4.5.4 negative impacts on local communities. Supplier social assessment 414-2 Principle 2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 actions taken. Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service 4.3.2 and 4.6.4 categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 4.6.4 the regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Marketing and Labelling 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 4.6.4 the regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in 4.6.4 the social and economic area. 278 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Report by the Statutory Auditor on the consolidated human resources environmental and social information 4.8 Report by the Statutory Auditor, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the Management Report This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ provided in accordance with the third paragraph of report issued in French and is provided solely for the article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, Information); French law and professional standards applicable in France. º express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, For the year ended December 31, 2017 fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines To the Shareholders, (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Essilor International However, it is not for us to express an opinion on the (Compagnie Générale d'Optique), appointed as independent third party and certified by Cofrac under number 3-1060 (1), compliance with the other legal provisions applicable, in particular those set out by the article L.225-102-4 of the 4 we hereby report to you our report on the consolidated commercial code (plan of vigilance) and by the law human resources, environmental and social information for No 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 known as Sapin II (fight the year ended December 31, 2017, included in the against corruption). Management Report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), Our work involved 14 persons and was conducted between pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial October 2017 and February 2018 during about 12 week Code (Code de commerce). period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated May 13 , 2013 defining the conditions under which the Company’s responsibility independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires Company’s Management Report including the CSR aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French 3000 concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Commercial Code in accordance with the “Group Information .(2) Sustainability Reporting” used by the Company (hereinafter the “Guidelines”) and available on request from the Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Company’s head office. Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of Independence and quality control the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French programmes arising from them. Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a We compared the CSR Information presented in the system of quality control including documented policies and Management Report with the list provided in article procedures regarding compliance with the ethical R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. Statutory Auditor’s responsibility We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by º attest that the required CSR Information is included in the article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the Management Report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is “Methodological note” section of the Management Report. (1) whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr. (2) Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 279 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Report by the Statutory Auditor on the consolidated human resources environmental and social information Conclusion º at the level of a representative sample of entities, Essilor Based on the work performed, we attest that the required Da Amazonia (Brazil), Multi Optica Distribuidora LTDA CSR Information has been disclosed in the Management (Brazil), Servioptica (Colombia), FGX US (United-States), Report. EO Operation – Gentex (United-States), Essilor International (France), BBGR Provins (France), GKB RX Lens Private (India), Optodev (Philippines), Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Inc. (Philippines), Transitions Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Optical Philippines (Philippines), selected by us on the Nature and scope of our work basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated We conducted about 12 interviews with about 10 persons indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied, departments in charge of collecting the information and, and we performed tests of details, using sampling where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile management procedures, in order to: the data with the supporting documents. This work represents 19% of headcount considered as typical size of º assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their the social component, and in average 18% of environmental relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and data considered as characteristic variables of the understandability, and taking into account industry best environmental component. practices where appropriate; For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we º verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the processing and control process to reach completeness and Company. consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we Information with respect to the characteristics of the have used, based on our professional judgement, are Company, the human resources and environmental sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required industry best practices. us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the information and internal control systems, the risk of not most important and whose list is given in annex: detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information º at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources cannot be totally eliminated. and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and Conclusion verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations of the Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has data. We also verified that the information was consistent come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR and in agreement with the other information in the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in Management Report; accordance with the Guidelines. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 5, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit One of the Statutory Auditors Cédric Le Gal Sylvain Lambert Partner Partner of the “Sustainable Development” Department 280 ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION Report by the Statutory Auditor on the consolidated human resources environmental and social information Appendix: CSR Information that we considered to be the most important. Human resources: º Consumption and provisioning of water considering the º Total workforce and breakdown of employees by gender, local constraints; age and geographical area; º Consumption of raw materials and the measures taken to º Recruitments and dismissals; enhance efficiency in their use; º Frequency rate and severity rate for work accident; º Energy consumption, the measures to enhance energy efficiency and the usage of renewable energy; º Total number of hours of training; º Significant sites of greenhouse gas emission due to the º Promotion and respect of the OIT conventions regarding Company’s activity, notably through the use of goods and the freedom of association and of collective negociation, services it produces (scope 1, 2 and 3). º Promotion and respect of the OIT conventions regarding the elimination of discrimination regarding employment and profession, Social information: º Promotion and respect of the OIT conventions regarding º Territorial, economic and social impact linked to the the elimination of forced or obligatory labour, Company’s activity in terms of employment and sustainable development; º Promotion and respect of the OIT conventions regarding º Territorial, economic and social impact linked to the the abolition of child labour. Company’s activity on local people; º The inclusion of social and environmental concerns in the Environmental information: purchasing policy; º The Company’s organization to take into account º The importance of sub-contractors for the Group, their environmental concerns, and if necessary the evaluation relationship with the Group, and their implementation of steps or certifications with regards to the environment; CSR. 4 º Preventive measures, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and waste disposal; ESSILOR 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 281 ESSILOR INTERNATIONAL (Compagnie Générale d’Optique) 147, rue de Paris 94220 Charenton-le-Pont France Tel.: +33 (0)1 49 77 42 24 A French Limited Company (Société Anonyme) with capital of €39,442,579.02 Créteil trade and Company registry n°712 049 618 www.essilor.com
