United Nations Global Compact We have been a signatory to the Global Compact since 2000 and we reaffirm our support of This annual Communication on Progress (see table) summarises the key sections of our report as they relate to the Global Compact’s principles and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, our business strategy, culture and operations. There are links to further environment and anti-corruption. information such as measures, lessons learned and our future plans. Principles Information in Delivering our Purpose – update on progress 2017/18 Information in BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 and elsewhere Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Everyone’s entitled to basic rights and freedoms – whoever they are, wherever they live. We’re Our commitment, as an original signatory to the United Nations Global Compact principles, is to protection of internationally proclaimed human rights committed to respecting these human rights. embrace, support and respect human rights and ensure we’re not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting human rights, page 45, summarises our approach to human rights Respecting human rights, page 41 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Respecting human rights, page 45, summarises our approach to human rights. Our human We’ve been working on a formal human rights policy, which we’ll launch early in 2018/19. complicit in human rights abuses rights team works on day-to-day integration of the UN Guiding Principles in our business and We have to maintain a difficult balance of respecting rights to privacy and free expression, and our Human Rights Steering Group oversees progress in this area. It’s chaired by our group supporting police and other government agencies in protecting the nation’s security. In December corporate affairs director (a member of our Executive Committee) 2015, we published our thinking on achieving this balance. This is currently being updated Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of We respect rights to equal opportunities, freedom of association and collective bargaining. Our ethics code, gives guidance to our employees, suppliers and anyone working on our behalf, association and the effective recognition of the right to Rewarding our people, page 52 on how we expect them to behave and on our values collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all We have a long-standing policy that we don’t use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary Our Modern Slavery Act transparency statement, updated in August 2017 sets out our stance on forms of forced and compulsory labour prison labour or child labour. Nor do we demand deposits or hold onto our workers’ identity modern slavery and human trafficking. We are founding partners of the UK’s Modern Slavery Helpline papers, or work with businesses that do. We only work with people who choose to work freely. and Resource Centre Sourcing responsibly, page 45 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of We have a long-standing policy that we don’t use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary Our Sourcing with Human Dignity standard, introduced in 2001, specifies the minimum standards we child labour prison labour or child labour. We only work with people who choose to work freely. expect of our suppliers Sourcing responsibly, page 45 Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of We want everyone to feel welcome and included at BT. Anyone with the right talent and We want a diverse workforce that matches our customers and delivers our business goals. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation mind-set should be able to succeed, no matter who they are or where they’re from. Diversity at work, page 45 Creating an inclusive workplace, pages 53-54 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Our environment policy and management systems are designed to help us comply with We’ve worked with the University of Cambridge Engineering Design Centre to develop the Designing to environmental challenges environmental legislation and continually improve our performance in these areas. Our Tomorrow (DOT) in a box initiative. It helps our designers think about the environmental impact Managing environmental impacts, page 45 at each stage of a product’s life cycle Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote We take our environmental responsibility seriously. Our group-wide environmental policy and Since the early nineties, we’ve made social and environmental responsibility central to our business. greater environmental responsibility environmental management systems (EMS) help us minimise our impacts, manage risks and We have incorporated environmental factors into our procurement processes. Our procurement comply with relevant regulations. standards on Product Stewardship and Climate Change sets out our expectations and requirements Conserving natural resources, page 38 from suppliers Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) highlight the need to create a low-carbon Our Purposeful Business web pages diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies economy and to ensure sustainable consumption of our natural capital. Our ambition is to help customers reduce their carbon footprint by at least three times our own end-to-end emissions. We can help them achieve this through our products and services. Helping customers cut carbon emissions, page 35. We want to work with suppliers who not only monitor the impact they have on the environment but work hard to reduce it. Promoting environmental sustainability, page 45 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its We don’t tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. Our anti-corruption and bribery policy forms, including extortion and bribery Doing business ethically, pages 43-44
