Communication on progress 2017 S TAT E M E N T O F C E O Statement of CEO Communication on progress 2017 Our vision is to be recognised as a global A sustainable business for Sobi entails a For a full version of our Annual and sustainaleader in providing access to innovative treat­commitment to responsibility for patients and bility report 2017, read more on sobi.com. ments that make a significant difference for employees, reduced environmental impact individuals with rare diseases. With the ambifrom operations and treatment, as well as tion to become a global leader, sustainability long-term sustainable profitability. This Comis a vital part of our vision and overall corpomunication on Progress report ­concludes our rate strategy. We are committed to conduct actions and results to implement the Ten Prinour business in a responsible way and thereciples within the four areas covered by the UN Guido Oelkers fore we support the principles conducted by Global Compact – human rights, labour, CEO the Unites Nations Global Compact. ­environment and anti-­corruption. The following pages is an extract from the Annual report 2017. S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Sustainability Sobi contributes to a sustainable future as part of our vision of becoming a global leader in providing access to innovative treatments that make a significant difference for individuals with rare diseases. The Group’s overall objective from a sustainaoperates by improving access to treatment of employees, reduced environmental impact bility perspective is tied to this overall vision: rare diseases. A sustainable business entails a from operations and treatment, as well as to contribute to the societies in which Sobi commitment to responsibility for patients and long-term sustainable profitability. Our values Sobi’s values are the starting point for our rare diseases and our colleagues at Sobi. company’s ambitions for growth, we have approach to sustainability. The Code of ­During 2017, we evolved our previous CARE identified new values that build on the CARE ­Conduct & Ethics also contains policies guidvalues (Collaborative, Accountable, Respectvalues. These are Care, Ambition, Urgency, ing sustainability activities. Together these ful, Engaged) which have been central to Ownership and Partnership. They will help provide a solid foundation for our work who we are and the way we work. Because us to develop the spirit of leadership and with sustainability. we care, we need to act. To ensure that more entrepreneurship that we need to become We care about our world, but primarily we patients benefit from our advanced therapies recognised as a leader in rare diseases. care about people – in particular, people with now and in the future, and to align with the Care Ambition Urgency Ownership Partnership We are who we are We will set ourselves We need to embrace It is our duty to act. We embrace partnerbecause of our dedicaambitious goals and a sense of urgency, We therefore encourage ships and collaboration, tion, our knowledge and do our utmost to while safeguarding our intrapreneurship and within Sobi and with our passion. Care is the achieve them. standards, because the learn from our experiexternal partners and foundation upon which patients cannot wait. ences. stakeholders. our strategy, our business and our culture are built. S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 36 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Material sustainability issues Sobi’s material sustainability issues were develMaterial issues oped during 2017. Based on ongoing input from external stakeholders and an internal Value creation • Improving global access to treatments for rare ­diseases analysis of the growth strategy, the Executive • Quality and supply chain management Committee approved an updated materiality • Strategic research and development analysis. Sobi’s material sustainability issues have been clustered in relation to their potenCompliance and • Regulatory and legal environment tial to create value, ability to support a responethics • Developing our people sible business, and expectations to adhere to • Ethical practices and collaborations laws, regulations and society’s expectations. The materiality analysis forms the basis Responsibility • Environmental impact for Sobi’s sustainability programme. The • Patient and customer integrity ­programme is under development and cur• Responsible tax rent initial activities aim to define the overall • Anti-corruption objective, targets and indicators to further • Anti-competitive practices drive performance. Contribution to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals are 17 global goals, approved Sobi has identified that, through our actions, we are able to influence a number of the by more than 150 countries in 2015, to be Sustainable Development Goals. reached before the end of 2030. Sobi recognises the important role of business in the achievement of these goals. Based on the growth strategy and the materiality analysis, Sobi has identified nine goals to which our operations contribute the most. The most strategic global goal for Sobi is number three “Good health and well-being” and specifically target 3.8: Achieve universal health ­coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential healthcare services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. For Sobi, this is ­sustainability. 37 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Value creation Improving global access to required medicines, irrespective of where need and engages in dialogue with authorities treatments for rare diseases they live and irrespective of the level of develto adapt local regulations – a successful opment of the local healthcare system. We approach that has provided access to treatAccess to treatments for rare diseases is aim to set prices at a local level according to ment in Chile. ­provided through the business areas local needs and preconditions. Our ambition Since 2015, Sobi in collaboration with Haemophilia and Specialty Care. An inteis to work with local health communities to ­Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, has contributed grated approach is required to ensure that improve health policies and to ensure sustainto providing access to a predictable supply patients can access treatment and achieve able access to treatment. of innovative and effective haemophilia treatthe best possible outcomes. Successfully proment to people in developing countries. viding such treatment requires comprehenBridging and access programmes The companies have pledged to donate up sive and sustainable solutions in several Sobi acknowledges the fact that where the to 1 billion international units of clotting factor dimensions, including access to early diagnolocal government and/or healthcare system between 2015 and 2025. Of these, 500 million sis and treatment, a long-term commitment has not yet included therapies in their local have been earmarked for the World Federato the community and healthcare systems, healthcare provisions, patients suffering from tion of Hemophilia, which is working to ensure and respon­sible pricing. With a strong focus rare conditions do not have access to the a sustainable shift and predictable access to on patient and medical needs, responsible same quality of treatment as other patients. treatment in local markets. pricing, adaptive regulatory pathways, partIn these situations, Sobi is committed to In several European countries with develners for manufacturing and an extensive and working with governments in finding a way to oped healthcare systems but limited budgets, efficient distribution network, we work consecure that patients get access to treatments the volumes of factor replacement necessary tinuously to shorten the time it takes for prodthrough bridging programmes, to bridge to treat haemophilia effectively are not availaucts to reach patients. access until reimbursed access is secured. In ble, despite minimum treatment recommendeveloping and emerging markets, Sobi also dations. In order to bridge the gap between Responsible pricing works with governments and local and interthe recommendations and current access in An effective treatment is one that not only national patient organisations, to fulfil a those countries, the European Haemophilia provides a medical benefit but is also both humanitarian aid need, while working with Consortium (EHC) has developed the Procureavailable in the country where the patient key stakeholders to build and lay the foundament of Affordable Replacement Therapies – lives and is affordable in the healthcare systion to move from donation to sustainable Network of European Relevant Stakeholders tem. One of the most crucial factors to ensure reimbursed access by governments and/or (PARTNERS) programme, in which Sobi is a key patient access to treatment is responsible healthcare systems. player. This is a new and innovative approach pricing. In the US, Sobi provides financial assistance to the sustainable procurement of treatment Sobi is committed to playing an active role for people in need of treatment with Orfadin products for haemophilia A and B in select in the dialogue with stakeholders, governand Kineret, to bridge access until reimbursecountries meeting EHC-specified criteria and ments and healthcare systems, to ensure that ment is in place. Sobi is also bridging access located both inside and outside the EU. patients get timely and sustainable access to in other countries based on individual patient “I have treated patients with HT-1 with Orfadin for over 20 years thanks to the support of Sobi. I am grateful for Sobi’s initiative to work towards securing sustainable treatment for these patients.” Dr Dweikat, Jerusalem S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Quality and supply chain management Patient safety and product quality Patient safety throughout the product life cycle is one of our most important tasks. With a robust pharmacovigilance system in place, we continuously oversee the benefit/risk profiles of our products. The pharmacovigilance system complies with all global, national and local regulations. The main purpose of the system is to guarantee patient safety in regards to our products. Annual training is provided for all employees to ensure that all safety information in relation to our products is reported. By collecting and analysing safety data from all sources, we aim to provide accurate and up-to-date information to regulators, healthcare professionals and patients. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a growing worldwide problem. To combat this hazardous and illegal business, governments all over the world are introducing regulations and systems to detect and prevent the distribution of counterfeit products. Sobi’s products have not yet been subject to falsification. All Sobi products will be serialised from because it could cause life-threatening c­ ontracted long-term and are monitored ­February 2019. ­situations. We have therefore built up robust closely. For products sold on a partner basis, supply and distribution processes covering we strive to ensure that all providers comply Enabling global access to treatments all our markets. with the code. We market and sell products in more than 70 Manufacturing of our products for which Distribution is characterised by collaboracountries, typically in small volumes aimed for Sobi is Market Authorisation Holder is pertion and strong commitment to patient health. a small number of patients. Because patient formed by 15 contract manufacturing organiWe assume responsibility for ensuring the safety is our single most important responsisations (CMOs) in Europe and the US, all of right products of specified quality arrive in the bility, ensuring that patients never risk being which fully comply with good manufacturing right quantities at distribution units, ensuring without their medication is paramount practices (GMP) ensuring that all products are their quick and efficient physical delivery to produced and controlled according to quality patients when an order arrives. Our Transport standards for pharmaceuticals. and Trade Compliance unit ensures that trade laws and regulations are followed. Full control of supply and distribution Our Logistics Development and Supply unit is responsible for managing the global CMO network and ensuring uninterrupted, reliable and sustainable transportation of products. Biologics are sensitive and often require coldchain supply to ensure product integrity and quality. It is vital to have full control of the entire supply and distribution chain – from manufacturing to patient. The manufacturing process itself contains three steps: manufacturing of drug substance, manufacturing of drug product and finally the packaging of finished goods. Depending on the product, there can be different partners for each step or the same partner for several steps. All manufacturers of products for which Sobi is Market Authorisation Holder By 2019, all Sobi products will are required to meet our Code of Conduct “Patient safety is our most important responsibility”, have a unique identity code. and Ethics. Manufacturers are normally Arvid Cronlund, Head of Drug Safety. 39 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Strategic research & development potential to transform the lives of rare-disease and production of biologics in Sweden, aimed patients – our partnership with Bioverativ at positioning Sweden as a leading nation in Research and development activities are of regarding the development of Alprolix and this field. The programme runs over a period strategic importance for us in our efforts to Elocta being an example of such a collaboraof eight years, until 2024, with government improve global access to innovative treattion. We are also developing platforms aimed funding of SEK 320 million as well as private ments for rare diseases. In these activities, at extending the time molecules circulate in funding. we strive to maintain the highest ethical, the body (half-life), which may present both ­technical and scientific standards. us and other partners with even more opporExploring new technologies Our ambition is to become a long-term tunities to develop novel and clinically releWe are working jointly with academia and global leader in the rare-disease field. Making vant ­treatments for rare and other diseases participated in three centres and projects a difference to individuals with rare diseases (see page 34). focused on development and manufacturing requires us to remain relevant to them of biologics in 2017. Sobi contributes through throughout their lives. Therefore, we need to Responding to patient insights financial in-kind funding and competence. reinvest in research and development to be In order to make a significant difference for The initiative has allowed us to explore new able to continue to provide innovative treatindividuals with rare diseases, we are also technologies that are expected to have an ments. We liaise with physicians, payers and developing existing drugs to meet new impact on development and manufacturing patient groups to obtain a good understand­medical needs. As patients who have not lead times. The academic network provided ing of patients’ and society’s needs, and had access to treatments before are given through this partnership also allows us to design our research and development prothe opportunity to live longer and healthier ­connect with students and graduates, both jects based on the knowledge gained. lives, the medical need changes and new equally benefiting from competence and challenges are presented. Orfadin, our treatexperience sharing. An integrated company ment for HT-1, has allowed people living with Our expertise includes an understanding of the disease to become adults. To meet the the elements needed to successfully scale needs of adulthood, new formulations of up and prepare for commercial production. Orfadin better suited to adults have been “We have been pioneers in A holistic view of the process, with integrated developed and introduced. development and manufacturing approaches, We secure intellectual property rights haemophilia for the past 35 supports our ability to reduce the overall time to safeguard our investments in research years – We intend to confrom early development to products reaching and development, enabling a financial per­ tinue bringing innovation to the patients, without compromising safety. formance that allows us to reinvest in the As a mid-sized rare-disease company, our development of new innovative treatments. the community for at least partnerships are key to building a successful another 35 years to come.” pipeline. Our expertise in biologics and Positioning Sweden as a leader in biologics  ­protein engineering, in collaboration with We are also participating in the Swedish Philip Wood, Head of Haemophilia partner companies, has allowed us to design ­government’s strategic programme in life and produce therapeutic proteins with the ­sciences to support the future development S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Compliance and ethics Regulatory and legal environment Developing our people We are committed to providing We operate in a highly regulated environment To continue building a company that remains a safe and healthy workplace for our 850 and are subject to laws and regulations govinnovative and high-performing while growerning research, production and marketing. ing, we aim to foster a strong culture and There is also a general trend towards greater ­create and sustain an organisation where awareness of liability issues and legal risk as ­continuous learning is key. well as increased transparency requirements. In parallel, our operating environment is conCulture-supported performance stantly changing, requiring an adaptive and We seek to engage our people in high-­per­ agile approach towards evolving regulatory forming teams to deliver in a competitive and legal requirements as well as to stimulate market and to reach challenging goals in a innovation. way that is aligned with corporate objectives people around the world. Sobi manages regulatory and legal and values. Training in our culture and values engagement through various internal pro(see page 36) plays a vital role in building cesses and control measures, such as con­ the business. tinuous scientific, regulatory and compliance We strive to promote a performance-based training. The aim is to secure high-quality culture based on individual accountability, research, considering all relevant precautionmandate and ownership. A critical factor ary principles, and production as well as transin these efforts is to set, and continuously parent and comprehensive marketing. During support, individual goals linked to strategic 2017, no incidents of non-compliance conbusiness objectives. However, performance cerning marketing communications have is not only about what individuals achieve been identified or reported. but also how these objectives are achieved. 41 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Our people are expected to achieve individating procedure (SOP) training or external company. The combination of rare-disease ual and team performance goals in line with training opportunities. competencies and specific therapeutic knowlthe corporate values. We endeavour to offer edge has guided the recruitment process. competitive salaries and benefits, which are Safe and healthy labour practices Our business relies on the knowledge and individually determined. We perform regular We are committed to providing a safe and competence of our people. Competitive benchmarks to ensure that compensation is healthy workplace for our 850 people around terms of employment are a prerequisite for on a par with similar companies. the world. Activities to protect labour rights recruiting and retaining high-calibre people. are based on our responsibilities as an We endeavour to offer competitive salaries Competence development employer, and we encourage suppliers and and benefits, individually determined and sInnovation is essential for a growing and partners to adopt socially responsible labour adapted to the local labour market. research-based company such as Sobi. An practices as well. We respect the international We are committed to providing equal adaptive and agile approach to respond to our labour standards set forth by the International employment opportunities regardless of race, evolving requirements is important to stimuLabour Organization (ILO) and complies with age, gender, religion, national origin, sexual late innovation. Through feedback and national labour laws. orientation or physical ability. During 2017, cross-functional teams we aim to develop a The Environmental, Health and Safety focus was placed on strengthening the change-ready mind-set across our organisa(EHS) Policy and guidelines aim to promote ­general knowledge about Sobi’s Code of tion, a learning process that is dependent on a working culture where every employee and Conduct & Ethics and non-discrimination individuals across Sobi being engaged in and manager is personally responsible for ensur­policies. Sobi’s guidelines clearly position committed to our shared day-to-day operaing a safe and healthy workplace, through against sexual harassment. Sobi’s Compliance tions. preventive measures and regular training. Hotline is a third party whistle-blower service Professional development for all employThe health and safety committee repreavailable to all Sobi employees which offers ees is seen as essential for both development sents all employees in Sweden. Country the option of reporting an issues anonyof Sobi’s product portfolio as well as the ­managers have the overall responsibility for mously. In 2017, there was no incident organisation as a whole. In 2017, we implehealth and safety within their own operations. of ­discrimination. mented a training matrix system across the Investigating and identifying the cause(s) of We believe that diversity among people organisation in line with regulatory requirean accident, dangerous situation or near miss contributes to progress and mutual enrichments, to serve as a comprehensive platform makes it possible to take action to prevent a ment. Of the total number of people in 2017 for ensuring individualised and specialised similar occurrence in the future. All employ(2016), 41 (42) per cent were men and 59 (58) training as well as evidence of learning. ees are required to report EHS-related inciper cent women. The corresponding figures During the year, 99.1 per cent of all dents to their employer. In 2017, 23 accidents for the Executive Committee and Board of employees received a regular performance were reported, none of which led to sick leave. Directors (excluding employee representaand career development review. In 2017, tives) were 78/22 per cent and 67/33 per cent Sobi employees spent on average 26 hours Diversity supports growth respectively. completing training through e-learning. This We have expanded internationally in recent does not include on-the-job or standard operyears. The successful incorporation of new knowl­edge and influences is building the future S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 42 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Ethical practices and about their challenges, and the success and clinical studies are conducted and reported ethical collaborations limitations of current treatment options. For in accordance with applicable law and the this purpose, we collaborate with stakeholdinternational Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Sobi promotes business ethics by enforcing ers throughout the value chain: from research standard. We collaborate to a substantial compliance with our corporate principles, and clinical programmes to patient access extent with contract research organisations and by supporting a culture that promotes an and pricing. Collaborations span all stake(CROs) when conducting clinical trials. These open discussion of ethics in our operations holders, including national and regional collaborations are governed by mutual high and among key stakeholders. patient organisations, governments and standards and procedures. healthcare systems. Sobi follows the European Medicines Ethical standards across the value chain There are company-wide guidelines in all Agency’s (EMA) policy on the publication We work actively to prevent all forms of corbusiness areas that support compliance with of clinical trial data. ruption and to ensure compliance with our the regulations regarding ethics and trans­ ethical standards across the value chain. parency in engagement with external There is a zero-tolerance policy towards brib­organisations. ery, supported by the Sobi Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Sobi Global Policy on Ethical research standards Anti-Corruption, which have both been transThe safety of individuals who take part in clinilated into relevant business processes, such cal trials is of the utmost importance, building as those governing interactions with healthon rigorous, scientifically based evaluations care professionals and organisations. by clinical experts in cooperation with regulatory authorities, independent ethics commitEngagement with organisations tees and stakeholders. To guide the ethical To develop and deliver treatments that help conduct of all research involving humans, we meet the needs of patients and their families, apply the Declaration of Helsinki’s principles our organisation strives to learn from them for medical researchers. All Sobi-sponsored 43 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Responsibility Environmental impact ity, the ability to be broken down by nature Patient and customer integrity and the capacity to be stored in the fat of Proactive environmental management is part ­animals. According to EU guidelines on the It is important that customers, clinical trial of a sustainable business. We meet our envienvironmental risk assessment of medicinal subjects, staff and others we interact with can ronmental responsibility by performing risk products, some drugs are not expected to rely on Sobi managing and processing perassessments and acting to reduce these risks have any environmental impact, for example sonal data in a responsible and safe manner, even further, managing chemicals and waste products composed of carbohydrates, amino and in accordance with applicable laws and by phasing out chemicals of high concern, acids, peptides and proteins. A high percentregulations. Emerging EU legislation imposes and working with energy and water consumpage of our products are biopharmaceuticals additional requirements on businesses protion plans in our production facilities. Environcomposed of amino acids, proteins and cessing personal data. To comply with these mental considerations are integrated into ­peptides, and these are unlikely to pose new requirements, we have assessed our activities and operational control, and formal any significant risk to the environment. framework and made necessary adjustments: responsibility has been delegated across the for example the policy on processing of perline organisation. We strive to comply with all Energy use and greenhouse emissions sonal data has been updated. Relevant data environmental laws and regulations. Business travel is one of the largest sources of flows have been analysed in order to close All employees are required to undergo greenhouse gas emissions from our activities. potential gaps under the new legislation. annual Environmental Training, covering risk As operations expand, face-to-face meetings We have adopted a governance model that assessment, greenhouse gas emissions and with the multidisciplinary teams across the supports the compliant use of data and have the management of chemicals and waste in organisation are important to achieving operprovided relevant training to the organisathe environment. ational goals. The importance of complying tion. An updated data privacy organisation with the Travel Policy, which calls for considerwill secure compliance from 2018. Chemicals management ation of virtual meetings when possible, is In 2017, we had one Data Breach incident Chemical regulations, aimed to eliminate emphasised continuously and the company documented. adverse effects on the environment and provides tools for virtual meetings. human health, are extensive and continuously We are committed to improving energy Responsible tax expanding. The handling of chemicals in R&D efficiency at our sites, and regularly review and manufacturing processes within Sobi foland monitor the operating costs of our buildSobi pays corporate taxes in a responsible lows clear instructions, with annual risk ings. An energy management plan for the way. This means paying taxes where profits assessments and internal audits of processes production facility in Stockholm has contribare earned in accordance with international carried out. uted to reduced energy and water consumptransfer pricing rules. It means having a baltion relative to production capacity: although anced tax risk profile and not engaging in Pharmaceuticals in the environment production volumes of ReFacto AF increased ­tax-avoidance activities, as well as keeping The environmental hazard of a specific drug by 15 per cent, consumption of energy tax levels stable and predictable, insofar as refers to its inherent properties, such as toxicincreased by only 0.8 per cent. prevailing business conditions permit. S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 44 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Anti-corruption and anti-competitive practices An open dialogue on ethical issues provides the foundation for our efforts to prevent corruption. The dialogue is supported by annual training for all people, where the Code of Conduct and Ethics and other related procedures are translated into a business context; completion of this training is a prerequisite to be eligible for and receive incentive payments. In 2017, 100 per cent of the employees participated in the training. No cases of corruption where reported during the year. Zero cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations within the economic and social area were reported. Transparency in business operations In the rare-disease community, collaborations between authorities, healthcare professionals, companies and patient organisations have always been a cornerstone for the development of new and better treatments. Such collaboration needs to be carried out in a ­correct and transparent manner. By further increasing transparency the community can achieve an even stronger basis for continued collaboration with positive impacts on the quality of research, development and manufacturing. Sobi has had a programme for Health Care Compliance (HCC) in place for quite some time. HCC within Sobi is defined as the ethical business standard for transparent promotio­ nal and non-promotional activities and interactions with healthcare professionals, providers, payers and patient organisations. The programme contains policies and ­controls aimed at minimising the risk of ­corruption. We support transparency initiatives, incl­ uding the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Disclosure Code in Europe and the Physician Payments Sunshine Act in the US. We have implemented the EFPIA Disclosure Code and made all payments and transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organisations in Europe publicly available on www.sobi.com, including sponsorships to attend meetings, grants and donations, speaker fees, consultancies and advisory board postings. 45 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Procurement agreements and perform procurements in a Purchases in the first category are made after We procure materials, goods and services transparent and responsible manner. During careful evaluation according to our governing from more than 1 000 suppliers. Establishing 2017, all new suppliers were screened based documents and procedures, followed by congood relationships with these suppliers proon requirements in our Code of Conducts tinuous assessments. In the second category, motes sustainability and responsibility in the and Ethics. the company procures goods at the best industry. We strive to apply consistent rules Purchasing can be divided into two main terms, balancing price and quality in considto all suppliers based on our Code of Concategories: products governed by internaeration of the relevant industry’s standards duct and Ethics. Our authorisation and signtional and national regulatory requirements of responsibility. We also work with due off procedures also reflect our anti-corruption and standards, and products of a general ­diligence to ensure that service providers commitment and help to ensure that we enter nature for all companies regardless of industry. comply with our anti-corruption standards. S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 46 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Sustainability and risk management The aim of our approach to risk management regular corporate planning procedure. The portfolio in terms of the developmental is to identify the risks that could affect the risk management process is linked in an intestages. For this reason, a clear strategic direccompany’s ability to achieve our business grated and seamless way to all units and tion aimed at acquiring new programmes, goals, and to proactively manage those risks other processes – quality evaluation, financial projects or treatments through in-licencing in a professional manner to safeguard the planning and strategy – within the company. or acquisition has been announced. company’s ability to execute on the strategy. During the year, some areas became more The assessment of sustainability risks is an Sobi has a business-integrated risk manimportant to address to reduce the potential integrated part of Sobi’s risk management agement process. Business intelligence, risk risk impact. Competition in commercial process. The sustainability risk table identifies management and business continuity man­markets, especially in Haemophilia and for material risks in relation to our identified agement are all integrated into the strategy Orfadin, was one such area. Another is the ­sustainability issues. Read more on pages and business planning process as part of the continued need to balance the development 126–127. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Macro view/ Strategy Risk Strategy Financial/ Business plan business process management process operational with risk intelligence “as-is” ­process, risk “to be” planning management assessment & & ­continuity business manage­ment continuity plans process 47 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T Sustainability Management Sobi’s material sustainability issues, based on an analysis of value creaStakeholders and materiality analysis tion and critical issues in relation to Sobi and its stakeholders, have been Sobi’s stakeholders are groups and individuals whose interests, directly identified as improving global access to treatments of rare diseases, or indirectly, have influence on or are influenced by the company’s strategic research and development as well as quality and supply chain actions. Sobi’s management and the Board of Directors have the overall management. Sobi has also determined to act with compliance and ethics responsibility for weighing up these interests, while ensuring the contiin relation to the regulatory and legal environment, when developing nuity of the company. Following this approach, Sobi aims to create longour people and by only engaging in ethical practices and collaborations. term value for and to earn trust of all its stakeholders. To ensure regular In relation to Sobi’s responsibility, important sustainability issues are dialogue, Sobi engages with a broad range of internal as well as exteridentified as reducing the company’s environmental impact, safeguardnal stakeholders through several different channels. As part of a coming patient and customer integrity, ensuring responsible tax payments, prehensive materiality analysis in 2016, web-surveys and targeted ruling out anti-corruption and anti-competitive practices. ­interviews were used for internal and external stakeholders to raise ­relevant issues. IMPORTANT EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Important external stakeholders that we are listening to: • Patient organisations • Budget holders and insurers • Families and carers • Academic researchers • Regulators • Centres of expertise • Pharmaceutical companies • Specialist physicians and nurses • Governments and Government ­agencies • Investors and analysists • Regulatory authorities • Shareholders • Health care systems Stakeholder’s engaging with Sobi discuss the following sustainability areas: Internal stakeholders External stakeholders Access to healthcare and medicine Access to healthcare and medicine Product safety and quality Sustainable supply chain Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials Engagement with patient organisations Regulatory and legal environment Anti-corruption Responsible marketing and sales activities Responsible marketing and sales activities Product safety and quality Research and development Pharmaceuticals in the environment Sustainable supply chain Engagement with patient organisations Diversity and equal opportunity Anti-corruption Employee recruitment, development, retention Research and development S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 123 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / mate r ial sustainability issues During 2017, the materiality analysis has been further developed and as well as the new requirements on sustainability reporting found in the adapted to be in line with the revised corporate strategy aiming to Annual Accounts Act. In the end of the year Sobi’s Executive Committee ­create a more sustainable business growth, both short and long term. approved the updated materiality analysis. Important aspects to consider have been Sobi’s value creation model Sobi’s material sustainability issues Value creation Material issues Policies guiding Sobi’s sustainability p ­ erformance Value • I mproving global access to treatments Annual Limits on Compensation for Healthcare ­professionals for rare ­diseases Anti-Corruption Policy •Q  uality and supply chain management Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships Policy • Strategic research and development Code of Conduct and Ethics Compliance • Regulatory and legal environment Communications Policy and ethics • Developing our people Compensation for Healthcare Professionals Policy • Ethical practices and collaborations Consultants and Speakers Policy Responsibility • Environmental impact Educational Grants Policy • Patient and customer integrity Environment Health and Safety Management • Responsible tax Fair Competition Policy • Anti-corruption Global Policy Risk Management • Anti-competitive practices Information Security Policy A detailed description on how Sobi is performing in relation to its Insider Policy ­material sustainability issues is found in the section Sustainability, Interactions with Patient Organisations Policy page 36–47. IT Security Policy Sustainability governance, management and organisation Patient Access Bridging Programmes Policy Sobi’s Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for Sobi’s susProcedure for Conducting Market Research ­Activities tainability performance, while the CEO and the executive management Procurement Policy team approve Sobi’s sustainability programme and ensure compliance of and decides on overall objectives and implementation of the sustainPromotional and Scientific Material Review Policy ability programme. All sustainability activities are guided by the Code Publications Policy of Conduct and Ethics and the other sustainability related policies. The Requirements and Approval Process for ­Non-Promotional Material Head of Communication is responsible for communication and operaRequirements and Approval Process for ­Promotional Material tionalisation of the programme in close collaboration with the business units. The approved sustainability programme and goals are broken Research Agreements, Grants and Fellowships ­Policy down into specific targets and activities to ensure that sustainability Sobi Inc Policy on Compliance Enforcement ­Discipline ­targets are well-integrated with Sobi’s overall objectives and business Sobi Inc Policy on Reporting Investigating and Responding to Compliance Issues plans. The annual reporting of the sustainability performance is preTravel Policy sented in Sobi’s Annualand Sustainability Report. 124 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / O b j ecti v es , ta r gets an d p r og r am Sustainability objectives, targets and programme Sobi’s overall objective from a sustainability perspective is tied to the During the year Sobi has developed a comprehensive sustainability overall vision: to contribute to the societies in which Sobi operates by ­program. The sustainability programme is based on Sobi’s material improving access to treatment of rare diseases. True availability and ­sustainability issues and will be further developed in terms of activities, access to treatment for patients is what brings long-term value to the targets, key performance indicators and implementation during the curpatients we serve, our employees, partners and shareholders. rent year. The sustainability programme will make it possible for Sobi to Sustainability is a vital part of Sobi’s vision and overall corporate stratfollow progress towards the overall sustainability objectives and vision. egy. A sustainable business entails a commitment to responsibility for patients and employees, reduced environmental impact from operations and treatment, as well as long-term sustainable profitability so that we can continue to reinvest in developing new therapies for rare diseases and serve our communities for many years to come. Material issues Overall sustainability objectives • Improving global access to treatments • Ensure that Sobi’s products are made for rare ­diseases ­available to patients through local health­ care budgets • Strategic research and development • Invest in R&D to build a self-sustaining ­pipeline • Quality and supply chain management • Our products are to improve the lives of rare disease patients and their families Material issues Sustainability targets • Regulatory and legal environment • Allways be compliant with laws and ­regulations • Developing our people • Engaged and skilled people who are offered a safe and developing workplace • Ethical practices and collaborations • Allways be compliant with Code of Conduct and Ethics • Environmental impact • Reduce Sobi’s environmental impact • Patient and customer integrity • Always secure patients integrity • Responsible tax • Tax to be paid where revenue is generated • Anti-corruption • Always be compliant with laws, regulations • Anti-competitive practices Code of Conduct and Ethics S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 125 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / S ustainability r is k s Sustainability risks Sustainability risks and the assessment of their impact are an integral ­element of Sobi’s risk management process. The sustainability risk table identifies material risks in relation to our identified sustainability strategies. For those areas that ­coincide with operational risks, see pages 64–65. Risk Description of risk Management and comments Global access to drugs The market is increasingly affected by cost-consciousness Sobi’s way of working with most stakeholders throughout the for rare diseases due to the growing cost of healthcare in many countries. entire development process is designed to anticipate market Market approval of drugs in the product portfolio does not needs and the demands that will be imposed on the product by guarantee that these products will be granted reimbursement paying regulators in the event of approval. and ­pricing approval by the national or regional healthcare ­systems. A decline in revenue from Sobi’s key products could have a material adverse effect on Sobi’s operations, earnings and financial position – regardless of whether this is due to reduced demand, increased competition or other reasons, such as policy changes for the national drug reimbursement scheme. The use of medications may be affected by the treatment Sobi’s way of working with regulators throughout the entire develguidelines, recommendations and studies published by regulaopment process is designed to anticipate market needs and the tors and other bodies. The products must achieve market demands that will be imposed on the product by regulators and acceptance among physicians, patients and procurement prescribers in the event of approval, with the aim of ensuring that organisations. patients receive rapid and sustained access to these new and The degree of market acceptance for each of the Company’s approved therapies, and that they meet the demands that arise ­products therefore depends on several factors. Many of these over time. are beyond the Company’s control and dependent on external decision-making procedures and policy-making bodies. Sobi donates drugs to patients with rare diseases in cases In developing countries and growth markets, Sobi works in con­ where humanitarian aid has been considered necessary. These sultation with regulators and international patient organisations in donations require the existence of a long-term plan describing order to meet humanitarian needs. At the same time, Sobi works how drugs can be guaranteed aside from the donation. with key stakeholders to build and lay the foundations for a shift from donations to a sustainable reimbursement system that is owned by governments and/or healthcare systems. In cases where healthcare systems do not yet include Sobi’s treatments, Sobi works in consultation with regulators to identify possible ways of making sure that patients are given access to drugs through programmes that provide a bridging arrangement until access through subsidy has been achieved. Quality and Supply Chain Biologics Manufacturing and Quality in Operational ­Management risks, see pages 64–65. Strategic Research and Drug Development in Operational risks, see pages 64–65. ­Development Sobi develops new drugs for serious diseases for which there is Looking after the safety of those people taking part in our studies no treatment. Drugs under development must be tested on is extremely important and is based on precise, scientifically based patients in the first instance and cannot be tested on healthy evaluations of our clinical expertise in collaboration with supervivolunteers. sory authorities, independent ethical committees and stakeholders. Sobi applies the Declaration of Helsinki’s ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects, and all clinical studies that we sponsor are conducted and reported in accordance with current laws, regulations and ordinances as well as the international standard for Good Clinical Practice (GCP). Patients who are being treated with Sobi’s drugs often have Sobi has a comprehensive safety system for our drugs and we are chronic, life-threatening diseases and are expected to be constantly monitoring the risk-benefit profile of our products. We treated with Sobi’s drugs for a long time. The safety of the provide annual training for all our employees in order to make sure products is extremely important. One of our most important that all safety information for our products is reported. Our goal is tasks is to secure patient safety throughout the whole life cycle to provide correct, updated information to legislators, healthcare of products. personnel and patients by collecting and analysing safety data from all available sources. 126 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / S ustainability r is k s Risk Description of risk Management and comments Regulatory and legal Sobi operates in a strictly regulated environment and we must Sobi monitors all laws and regulations carefully in order to make ­environment comply with laws and regulations governing not only producsure that the company’s work complies with current legislation. tion, but also research and marketing. Any change in legislation In cases where legislation concerns requirements for the approval and regulations can have a direct impact on Sobi by limiting of drugs, we adopt an agile approach to adapt development proaccess to the market, manufacturing opportunities or developcesses rapidly in order to meet the new requirements and thereby ment strategies. not risk extending the time it takes for the drug to reach the patient. The handling of chemicals in our R&D and manufacturing processes is covered by annual risk assessments in order to avoid any impact on the future ability to deliver as agreed. Developing our employees Sobi operates in a competitive market, where our employees Sobi works with a learning organisation and involves employees form the basis of the company’s ability to develop special in high-performance teams in order to achieve and deliver in a drugs to meet our patients’ needs. If we are unable to attract competitive market. employees who can contribute to this work through their ­various competencies and experiences, we risk becoming less efficient and not being able to produce the right drugs at the right price. Anti-corruption, anti-com­ The risk of corruption is greatest in activities in which Sobi To mitigate corruption risks, Sobi has for several years had a Health petition and ethical approach, interacts with the healthcare sector. Care Compliance (“HCC”) programme in place. Health Care Comas well as collaborations pliance within Sobi is defined as the ethical business standard for transparent promotional and non-promotional activities and interactions with healthcare professionals, providers, payers and patient organisations. The programme includes processes and controls that aim to mitigate the risks of, for example, corruption. Environmental impact Sobi’s business activities involve business trips that give rise to Sobi monitors legislation in the environmental field and integrates greenhouse gas emissions. The consumption of energy, water, requirements into controlling procedures for the business activity products and services as well as the handling of chemicals in concerned. A control programme has been agreed with the reguthe manufacturing facility also have an environmental impact. lators for the manufacturing facility. Risk assessments of the business are performed annually and in connection with changes, and action plans are drawn up as required. Patient and customer Sobi processes personal data in the course of its business. Sobi A programme is in place for the purpose of ensuring compliance integrity is committed to protecting the personal rights of any individual with emerging legislation regarding the processing of personal whose personal data it processes – including its employees, data. customers, suppliers and other contractual partners, stakeholders, subjects and patients in clinical trials. Reponsible tax Sobi carries out decentralised business activities in various difSobi’s tax policy clearly states that tax must be paid in the counmanagement ferent countries. Changing local rules and interpretations may tries where revenue is generated in accordance with determined thus lead to incorrect tax treatment in the local companies. All transfer pricing methods. local companies are required to monitor that correct taxes are paid in their respective country. S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 127 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / S ustainability p e r fo r mance Sustainability performance 2017 Sobi is committed to report relevant data on economic, social and environmental performance, focusing on material issues and to communicate their progress. The sustainability notes found below complement the performance reporting found in the Sustainability section of this report. Reported data covers all Sobi’s business operations unless otherwise stated. Sustainability notes Economic Performance Environmental Performance Direct Economic Value Generated (SEK Thousands) 2017 Carbon dioxide emissions Revenues 6,512,521 (CO2 tonnes) 2017 2016 Economic Value Distributed Indirect emissions from energy (metric tonnes) 221 222 Operating costs –3,632,615 Emissions from travel (metric tonnes) 983 1,112 Employee wages & benefits –1,262,850 Reported emissions reflects only operations in Sweden. Travelling emissions Payments to providers of capital –69,161 include emissions from business travel and company cars. Payments to government –209,128 Community investments1 –15,471 Waste Direct economic value 1,323,295 Waste (metric tonnes) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2017. Recycled waste 50 46 68 52 42 1. Community investments is based on costs reported in May 2017 related to ­support to Patients Hazardous waste 22 16 13 13 16 ­Organisations during 2016. Costs for 2017 will be reported in our Transparency Report to be published in May 2018. Landfill 0.1 0.0 1.6 0.1 1.1 Total waste 72 62 82 65 59 Indirect economic impact Sobi and Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, have pledged to donate up to 1 billion Waste reporting is based on Sobi’s only production facility found in Solna, ­Stockholm. IUs of coagulation factor to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. Waste data does not include waste from marketing and sales offices. 500 million IUs have been donated in support of the World Federation of Hemophilia’s (WFH) humanitarian aid work. Sobi’s indirect economic impact is reported in accordance with the WFH:s progress report for this programme. The impacts are the result of Sobi’s and Bioverativ’s contribution to the programme. 2017 2016 2015 Total MIU’s delivered 262 146 19 New patients treated 15,072 12,311 2,347 Acute bleeds treated 40,557 33,876 4,984 Total surgeries 709 719 78 Paediatric patients, % 39 28 14 In developing countries and growth markets, Sobi works in collaboration with regulators and international patient organisations to meet humanitarian needs. Sobi donates drugs to patients with rare diseases in cases where humanitarian aid has been considered necessary. 128 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / S ustainability p e r fo r mance Social performance Employees per region 2017 Region New employee hires Female Male Employees 2017 Sweden 67 41 26 451 EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 67 41 26 295 North America (USA & Canada) 10 7 3 54 Total 144 89 55 8001 1. Per year-end 2017, the number of full-time equivalent employees was 800, while the number of persons employed at the same date was 850. New hires Female Male Under 30 30–50 Above 50 Female Under 30 30-50 Above 50 Male Region years old years old years old Total years old years old years old Total Total Sweden 8 21 12 41 9 14 3 26 67 EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 4 29 8 41 2 20 6 28 67 North America (USA & Canada) 1 5 1 7 2 1 3 10 Total 13 55 21 89 9 38 8 55 144 Turnover 2017 Employees 2017 2016 Number of employees1 812 757 Departures 90 83 Turnover 11.1% 11% 1. Mean number of employees during the year, including only permanent contracts. Employees, contract type and type of employment 2017 Employees Male Female Totalt Permanent contract 337 497 834 Temporary contract 8 8 16 Employees Sweden Other region Totalt Permanent contract 473 361 834 Temporary contract 15 1 16 Employee numbers are expressed as head count. Sobi has no employees working part time. Some employees have been granted a part time equivalent employment type due to issues such as child care. All employees in the Swedish operations (representing approximately 57 per cent of all employees) are covered by collective bargaining agreements. S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 129 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / G R I I n d e x Global Reporting Initiative Index Sobi´s Sustainability Report 2017 is defined in the GRI Index below. This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Its main components are found in the following sections of the Standards: Core option. It also fulfills the requirements on sustainability Annual and Sustainability Report 2017: reporting in the Annual Accounts Act. The 2016 sustainability report • Business Model is found in the section Sobi’s Value Creation, was published in April 2017. page 12–13 Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, as part • Description of sustainability approach, activities and performance of the Annualand Sustainability Report. The indicators below have 2017 are found in the section on Sustainability, pages 36–47. been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, which is further • Information on objectives and targets on Sustainability issues is described on pages 124–125. All page references below refer to pages reported in the non-financial notes, on pages 128–129. in Sobi’s 2017 Annualand Sustainability Report or at www.sobi.com. • Information on the buildup of the Sustainability Report is found For questions regarding the ­Sustainability Report, please contact in the section Sustainability Management, on pages 123–132. info@sobi.com. UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Comment Compact GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Sobi complies with the reporting principles for defining reporting content and quality stipulated by GRI. STANDARD DISCLOSURES Organisational Profile GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 76 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7, 10–13, 58 102-3 Location of headquarters 76 102-4 Location of operations 20, 23, 86, 98 102-5 Ownership and legal form 76 102-6 Markets served 20, 23, 98 102-7 Scale of the organisation 6–7, 84 102-8 Information on employees and other 86, 129 Principle 6 workers 102-9 Supply chain 12–13, 39 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation No material changes to the and its supply chain organisation and supply chain during the year. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 64–65, 126–127 102-12 External initiatives 43, 45, 130 Sobi complies with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Disclosure Code in Europe and the Physician Payments Sunshine Act in the US. Sobi’s clinical programmes and testing follow the ethical prin­ ciples of the Declaration of ­Helsinki and EMA’s policy on the publication of clinical trial data. 102-13 Membership of associations See www.sobi.com for current list of memberships. Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement of CEO, 55 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 36, 124 Principle 10 of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 108–113, 124 130 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / G R I I n d e x UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Comment Compact Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 123 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 129 Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 37, 123 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 37, 123 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 37, 123 Reporting Practice GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 98 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 124–125, 130, GRI 101 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 37, 124 102-48 Restatements of information 98 102-49 Changes in reporting 123–124 102-50 Reporting period 130 102-51 Date of most recent report 130 102-52 Reporting cycle 130 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 130 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 130 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 130–133 102-56 External assurance Sobi’s Sustainability Report has not been subject to external assurance. MATERIAL TOPICS Economic Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 128 distributed Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 128 Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 45, 47, 124 Principle 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 47, 127 Principle 10 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 45 Principle 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 45 Principle 10 and actions taken Anti-competitive Behaviour GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 45, 47, 124 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 45 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Environmental Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 Principle 7, 8, 9 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 128 Principle 7, 8 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 Principle 8 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 128 Principle 8 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 131 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T / G R I I n d e x UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Comment Compact Social Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41–42, 124 Principle 6 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee 129 Principle 6 turnover Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 42, 124 Principle 1, 6 GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupa42 Safety tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 42 Principle 6 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 42 Principle 6 employee 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee 42 skills and transition assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 42 Principle 6 regular performance and career development reviews Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 42, 124 Principle 6 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 42 Principle 6 actions taken Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 Principle 1 GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engage19, 38 Principle 1 ment, impact assessments, and development programmes Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 46, 124 Principle 2 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 46 Principle 2 social criteria Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 39, 44 impacts of product and service categories Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 Principle 7 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 39 product and ­service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 41 marketing ­communications Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 44, 124 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 44 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regula45 tions in the social and economic area 132 S O B I C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 7 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00 www.sobi.com Email: info@sobi.com
