BELIMO UN Global Compact Communication on Progress FY 2017 Brunnenbachstrasse 1 CH-8340 Hinwil Phone +41 43 843 6111 www.belimo.com Communication on Progress FY 2017 BELIMO Statement of continued support Belimo is the global market leader in the development, production and marketing of actuator solutions for controlling heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. Actuators, control valves and sensors make up the company's core business. Belimo's aim is to be a trusted partner across the globe for its customers, offering them the added value they expect. Research and market-relevant innovation as well as fast and customized execution are key. Commitment, credibility and reliability characterize the company's behavior. Belimo delivers more than just products. The company supports its customers with innovative, efficient and energy-optimizing solutions and brings success to both customers and itself. Belimo is close to its customers throughout the world, speaks their language and understands them. Everything Belimo does shall reinforce the customer's conviction that they have chosen the very best. Belimo is firmly committed to sustainability, as reflected in its values and the code of conduct. This commitment was further strengthened with the signing of the United Nations Global Compact. In doing so, Belimo has undertaken to adopt, support and implement a range of principles within its sphere of influence from the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. These principles are consistent with the values and the code of conduct of Belimo. I am pleased to confirm that Belimo reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This Communication on Progress describes the company's actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into business strategy, culture and daily operations. Belimo is committed to share this information with its stakeholders using its channels of communication. 44, ars van der Haegen Chief Executive Officer Page 2 of 5 Communication on Progress FY 2017 BELIMO® Summary of Policy, Actions and Outcomes The table below summarizes the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. More information can be found in the referenced documents which are available for downloading at www.belimo.com. Principle Policy, Actions and Outcomes Reference HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Belimo's values and code of conduct convey the company's key Businesses should guiding principles and fundamental values. The United Nations support and respect Global Compact principles in the area of human rights, labor the protection of standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption internationally are consistent with the values and the code of conduct of Belimo. proclaimed human Belimo is determined to manage its business in compliance with high i rights. ethical standards and applicable law. Employees are expected to act accordingly. New employees learn about the values and quality standards during -> Annual Report 2017 their introduction to the company. The individual employee's longp. 48 term ability to internalize and put those values into practice is also part of the annual employee appraisal. Principle 2: The code of conduct serves as a guideline for day-to-day work. lt Business must make applies to all Belimo employees worldwide and establishes sure that they are not parameters for ethical business practices. complicit in human rights abuses When it comes to env ronmental and social standards, the Belimo i Group is as demanding on its suppliers as it is on its own internal service providers. Belimo expects its suppliers to make a clear commitment to the company's principles in the form of a binding self-declaration. By -> Supplier Declaration, signing it the supplier undertakes to comply with Belimo's Code of www.belimo.com Conduct Conduct in the working environment which addresses corruption, human rights, child labor, health and safety, and environmental protection. The code of conduct for suppliers has been signed by more than 300 suppliers which equates to around 90 percent of the procurement volume. Belimo usually conducts about 30 audits per year, both new and existing suppliers are audited on site. Such audits include a compliance assessment with the code of conduct. In FY 2017 no cases of violation have been registered. LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Belimo recognizes employees' freedom of association. Members of -> Code of Conduct, Businesses should employee organizations or unions are neither favored nor www.belimo.com uphold the freedom discriminated. of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Page 3 of 5 Communication on Progress FY 2017 BELIMO® Principle 4: The Belimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration excludes -> Code of Conduct The elimination of all implicitly all forms of forced and compulsory labor. forms of forced and In FY 2017 no cases of violation have been registered. compulsory labor. Principle 5: The Belimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration prohibits -> Code of Conduct The effective child labor. No employees are hired who have not yet reached the abolition of child minimum age of 15 years. labor. In FY 2017 no cases of violation have been registered. Principle 6: Belimo promotes equal opportunities and the equal treatment of its -> Code of Conduct Eliminate employees regardless of the color of their skin, race, nationality, discrimination with social origin, disability, sexual orientation, political or religious respect to conviction, gender or age. An employment is purely based on employment and professional knowledge and achievement. occupation. The company's workforce encompasses over 100 different nationalities and a wide range of different cultures. Belimo is -> Annual Report 2017, particularly proud of its colleagues with disabilities, who achieve p. 48 outstanding performance every day and support its manufacturing processes. They include members of the Swiss residential and employment center for people with restricted mobility (IWAZ, Switzerland), Sonnhalde in the Zurcher Oberland region (Switzerland) and Ability Beyond in Danbury, CT (USA). The company's many years of cooperation with these organizations are a fixed part of corporate culture at Belimo, offering work to over 100 people. The production division in Hinwil has been running an additional pilot project with IWAZ employees. Since January 2017 the IWAZ employees assemble, check and package actuators on an assembly line in-house. Every three years a worldwide survey is conducted giving each employee the opportunity to respond on various topics. The fourth survey in 2017 confirmed the pleasing results from 2014, indicating a very high level of engagement. Detailed results will be analyzed by the individual teams around the world and used to implement corresponding actions. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Environmental protection is embodied in the values, the code of Businesses should conduct and the supplier declaration. support a precautionary The company strives to use resources sparingly and to avoid the use of materials that place an unnecessary strain on the environment. -> Code of Conduct approach to environmental Belimo is mindful of energy consumption; environmental protection is challenges taken into account in compliance with legal and international standards. The Hinwil and U.S. sites adhere to the international environmental -> Annual Report 2017, management system ISO 14001. p. 40 As part of Belimo's internal management reporting environmental performance metrics for water, electricity, heating, and waste used in Danbury and Hinwil are communicated to the Group Executive Committee. The company has been a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) supporter since 2013 and has responded to the questionnaires since 2009. Page 4 of 5 Communication on Progress FY 2017 BELIMO Principle 8: The premises are continually reviewed and technically modernized -> Annual Report 2017, Businesses should for comfort and energy efficiency. p. 42 undertake initiatives to promote greater For example, the new training and show room in the old main environmental building in Hinwil and the Europe group division office premises have responsibility, been completely renovated. This includes the installation of Belimo Energy Valves TM, zone valves and VAV solutions for the management of water and air flows. The site is gradually switching its lighting over to energy-saving LEDs. An analysis program evaluates environmental and facility data, providing the basis for optimization measures. Belimo has invested in a new photovoltaic system at the Hinwil site, covering a total area of 176 square meters. The new production, logistics and administration building in Danbury and the Sparks site have been built in compliance with sustainable construction standards and are certified with LEED gold. In 2017 Belimo Italy was awarded with a LEED gold certificate as well. Principle 9: Belimo strives to design products that contribute to increased energy -> Mission, Businesses should efficiency in its customer's applications. www.belimo.com encourage the development and According to the U.S. Green Building Council buildings in the United diffusion of States are responsible for some 40% of CO2 emissions and energy environmentally consumption. Belimo solutions enable the optimized operation of friendly technologies. HVAC plants by offering the following features: • Minimized power consumption by Belimo actuators for all applications • Preventing circulation losses thanks to bubble-tight characterized control valve technology in water applications • Increasing plant efficiency by making smart use of actuator and sensor technology For more details about Belimo's innovative solutions reference is -> Annual Report 2017, made to the annual report or www.belimo.com. p. 40 and ri 43ff. Belimo actively participates to shape these changes and constantly further develops building technology. The company is an active member of numerous industry associations including REHVA (Federation of European Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Associations) and ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers). These organizations are geared toward developing sustainable, energy-efficient building technology as well as corresponding standards. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Corruption and bribery of any kind are not tolerated, nor is it -> Code of Conduct Businesses should permissible to become involved in such acts in anyway, including work against any offers of illegal payments or similar gifts, for the purpose corruption in all its influencing the decision making. forms, including extortion and bribery. In the report ing year Belimo has not been involved in any legal i cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Page 5 of 5
