NIBC Communication on Progress (COP) – UN Global Compact March 2018 NIBC is pleased to reconfirm that we support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. This reconfirmation follows our original commitment from December 2010 and our annual ongoing commitment to advance the principles since that time. With this communication on progress, we express our intent to continue to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the broader development goals of the United Nations. We support public accountability and transparency, and welcome feedback from our stakeholders on our progress. Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more NIBC Commitment to the UN Global Compact NIBC’s commitment to responsible business is central to our SDG 1-17 About NIBC vision, embedded in our business strategy, articulated in our Purpose and Values Code of Conduct, and carried out in our day-to-day Strategy relationship with all stakeholders. Corporate Governance Sustainability Our approach is further supported by our governance Sustainability Governance framework, policies and processes. 2017 NIBC Annual Report Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the We are committed to respecting and protecting human SDG 5 2017 NIBC Annual Report protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in all of NIBC’s business practices. SDG 10 NIBC GRI SDG 12 NIBC Sustainability Policy rights In our 2017 Annual Report, we reported on the human NIBC Human Rights Policy rights aspects of our business, including potential salient human rights risks and how we mitigate these risks. During 2017, we made minor revisions to our Human Rights policy. We also updated certain sector policies, addressing human rights aspects in these updates. NIBC is a signatory of the IMVO agreement for the Dutch banking sector, an initiative which aims to address salient human rights issues and promote better practices. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2018 Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human NIBC recognizes our responsibility to help ensure fair SDG 5 2017 NIBC Annual Report rights abuses. business practices in our overall value chain and direct and SDG 8 NIBC GRI indirect supply chain. SDG12 NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC Human Rights Policy We do this through due diligence and monitoring and an effective grievance and complaints process which is publicly available. We also engage and raise awareness with diverse stakeholders. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of NIBC is committed to respecting labour rights in all of its SDG 8 2017 NIBC Annual Report association and the effective recognition of the activities and to support our stakeholders in realizing their NIBC GRI labour rights obligations. The right to collective bargaining is NIBC Sustainability Policy right to collective bargaining; recognised within our Human Rights policy. In our own NIBC Human Rights Policy operations, our employees are represented in negotiations with management by our Works Council as described on p54 of the NIBC Holding Annual Report. 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and Our processes include due diligence which aims to ensure SDG 1 2017 NIBC Annual Report compulsory labour; forced and compulsory labour and child labour are not SDG 3 NIBC GRI present in our value chain. Our stakeholder engagement SDG 8 NIBC Sustainability Policy ensures a continuous dialogue on labour issues and sharing NIBC Human Rights Policy of such knowledge among our peers and within our communities. In 2017, NIBC published a Modern Slavery Statement in line with requirements of the 2015 UK Modern Slavery Act, section 54. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and NIBC aims to ensure child labour is effectively abolished. This SDG 1 2017 NIBC Annual Report is addressed in our business practices, due diligence SDG 3 NIBC GRI processes, employee training, and engagement with diverse SDG 4 NIBC Sustainability Policy stakeholders. SDG 8 NIBC Human Rights Policy We are guided in our practices by conventions such as the UNICEF Convention on the Rights of the Child. Through our charitable contributions and activities and initiatives such as the NIBC NGO Boulevard, we aim to further boost children’s rights, education and develop opportunities for future generations. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2018 Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of NIBC supports equality and is devoted to creating a SDG 5 2017 NIBC Annual Report employment and occupation. stimulating work environment for people from all SDG 8 NIBC GRI backgrounds. SDG 10 NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC Human Rights Policy We have zero-tolerance for discrimination (by gender, age, religion, ethnic origin, or nationality) in respect of employment and occupation. We recognise the sustainability benefits of having a highly diverse workforce, and therefore continue to take steps to increase diversity across the company, during recruitment and promote processes by considering candidates irrespective of gender, age, religion, ethnic origin, or nationality. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary NIBC applies the precautionary principle through its risk SDG 7 2017 NIBC Annual Report approach to environmental challenges; management and compliance approach toward potential SDG 11 NIBC GRI environmental and social impact. Our sustainability SDG 12 NIBC Sustainability Policy framework and related policies govern our approach toward SDG 13 NIBC Environment Supplement environmental and human rights concerns. Environmental aspects are considered in our client and supplier assessments and risk management process. This helps to ensure well informed decision-making and that our client interactions do not harm society or the environment. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater NIBC employees receive training on environmental & social SDG 6 2017 NIBC Annual Report environmental responsibility; and risks, developments and NIBC’s sustainability framework. SDG 7 NIBC GRI SDG 9 NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC is carbon neutral in terms of direct emissions from its SDG 11 NIBC Environment Supplement own operations. We manage our direct impact on the SDG 12 environment through an environmental sustainability SDG 13 programme. This includes measures such as reducing our SDG 14 carbon footprint, reducing waste, using responsibly-sourced SDG 15 paper, and further increasing energy efficiency. NIBC has taken steps with peer banks and clients to develop the Responsible Ship Recycling Initiative which aims to improve sustainability practices in the shipping sector. In 2017, this initiative was publicly launched and attracted additional ship financing banks. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2018 Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more 9. encourage the development and diffusion of NIBC provides financing in the form of loans and SDG 7 2017 NIBC Annual Report environmentally friendly technologies. investments to support Renewable Energy. We promote SDG 9 NIBC GRI energy efficiency in Commercial Real Estate and support SDG 11 NIBC Sustainability Policy sustainable and responsible food production in our Food and SDG 12 NIBC Environment Supplement Agri financings and investments. We also provide consumer mortgages which include the possibility of renovations which improve energy efficiency. We support clients in other sectors through our financings to improve their environmental footprint, protect biodiversity and transition toward more sustainable ways of doing business. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in NIBC continues to work against corruption in all its forms. SDG 12 2017 NIBC Annual Report all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We do not accept nor tolerate any instance of bribery, SDG 16 NIBC GRI corruption or fraud. SDG 17 Purpose and Values Corporate Governance NIBC supports the UNGC Call to Action regarding AntiSustainability Corruption and was represented during 2017 in the UNGC Bankers Oath Anti-Corruption Working Group. During 2017, NIBC updated our Code of Conduct. This Code applies to our entire organisation and is included in our employee contracts. A mandatory e-learning program was launched in Q4 to refresh knowledge and increase awareness. Compliance & Integrity training is also obligatory for all new employees when they join NIBC. We are guided in the way we do business and interact with our clients by our Code of Conduct, Anti-Fraud, Bribery & Corruption policy (published internally), Business Principles, Risk Control Framework and Sustainability policies. Issues such as extortion and bribery are seen as an operational risk and monitored within our risk control framework. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2018 By incorporating the Global Compact principles into our strategy, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, NIBC aspires to not only uphold our basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also set the stage for the long-term success of our stakeholders and our communities. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. To learn more about NIBC and how we and our stakeholders are working to promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, visit www.nibc.com We welcome your feedback on this Communication on Progress, on our policies and practices, or other suggestions. Contact us here. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2018
