Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CONTENTS 02 10 27 A Welcome from Marketplace People Our Chairman Overview Overview Targets and Progress Targets and Progress Key Highlights 04 Key Highlights People Scorecard Safety About this Report UN Sustainable Development 14 Goals UNCG Principles Environment 37 Overview Philanthropy Targets and Progress and Community Investment 07 Environment Data Key Highlights Overview Corporate Targets and Progress Responsibility at Bacardi Limited 23 Key Highlights Responsible Stakeholders Sourcing Materiality Overview Targets and Progress Key Highlights WELCOME MESSAGE A welcome from our Chairman For the last 155 years, our values of Trust, Caring, Passion, and Excellence have guided how we have done business every day, the premium products we make, and how we respond to our consumers, employees, and communities. Our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen extends into every aspect of our business and we are so proud that for the fifth consecutive year Bacardi Limited has been named among the most reputable companies in the world. According to the annual Global RepTrak® 100 list released by Reputation Institute and published in Forbes, we are ranked at #84, moving up 8 spots from last year. On behalf of our 5,600 employees, I am pleased to share our Interim 2017 Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report. FY17 Highlights • In FY17 we commissioned independently conducted programs were carried out across 19 countries. We know stakeholder research on our Corporate Responsibility we have more work to do and remain committed to the program and our priority focus areas. Although there five principles and reducing the harmful use of alcohol. are some changes in the relative priority of issues, there was a consensus among stakeholders that all material • Regarding our bold Good Spirited environmental issues remained important and should continue to sustainability initiative, we reached our goal early of be actively managed and reported upon. Findings reducing our greenhouse gas emission intensity by 50%, from the research were incorporated in the updated as compared to our baseline in FY06! Our work here won’t materiality assessment, included in this report. stop as we look to our overall value chain to continue the reduction journey. In addition, we achieved Zero Waste to • FY17 represents the fourth year of the Beer, Wine Landfill status at four additional manufacturing facilities as and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce we move towards our goal of every facility by 2022. Harmful Drinking. For consecutive years, we achieved 100-percent compliance with marketing agency • All our sugarcane-derived product suppliers for contracts and ensured at least 70% (more in many BACARDÍ® rum will be sustainably certified by Bonsucro, countries) of our measured advertising had an a nonprofit that certifies suppliers who support fair audience above the legal drinking age. Through active labor and environmental protection in sugar producing engagement in local level organizations, Bacardicommunities, by the end of this calendar year, ahead of supported underage drinking prevention programs our original 2022 goal. reached over a million underage individuals and 1.5 million influencers. In addition, 38 drunk driving 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE • We fielded our latest Global Primos Engagement At the time of publication of this report we have been Survey in FY17 and 89% of employees provided their in a transition process for the role of Chief Executive input – a participation rate well above best-in-class. Officer from Michael J. Dolan to Mahesh Madhavan. Mike In addition, as compared with our FY15 survey, our will be retiring as CEO and from our Board of Directors, Engagement Index score (consisting of items relating and we thank him for his significant contributions to to satisfaction, pride, retention, and advocacy) rose two our Company. Under his leadership, we are proud of the points from 67% to 69%. strides Bacardi has made in Corporate Responsibility and look to Mahesh and his leadership and passion to drive • Our goal every year is to put “Safety First” to achieve our CR program forward. an accident-free environment. In FY17 we had a total of 18 accident-free sites and the second-best year in In addition, many of our facilities, offices, and employees our Company LTA (Lost Time Accident) rate both in our have been directly impacted by an active hurricane manufacturing sites and in our offices. We improved by season and other natural disasters. In the wake of this 18.5% over our performance versus FY16. devastation Bacardi Limited and the Bacardí family committed US$3,000,000 for disaster relief and recovery • Through our Spirit for Life, Caring Together volunteer efforts in Puerto Rico, Florida, other islands in the initiative, our offices and manufacturing sites supported Caribbean, The Bahamas, and Mexico. Bacardi will provide charitable organizations to address the many issues immediate relief and longer-term rebuilding efforts in facing our local communities. Through activities such collaboration with several non-profit partners and local as blood drives, clothing and food donations, disaster governments, including the Government of Puerto Rico, relief assistance, and cleaning our local parks, we remain in the affected communities. committed to our communities in the more than 40 countries where we live and work. We know our people are our best ambassadors of our corporate values and we will look to continue to • We are so proud that through BACARDÍ® NO empower them to do the right thing for Bacardi, our COMMISSION events, and in collaboration with our stakeholders, and for our communities moving forward. Global Chief Creative for Culture, Swizz Beatz, 100% of It’s been an exciting year, but all of us at Bacardi are even the sale of artwork from the events go directly back more excited for what’s to come. to the artist. As of the end of FY17, through events in Miami, New York, and London, the movement has put $3 million directly back into more than 80 artists’ pockets! In addition to reporting on our progress as a signatory Facundo L. Bacardi of the UN Global Compact, we also address the UN Chairman Sustainable Development Goals and our role, in partnership with others, to tackle the most pressing social, economic, and environmental issues. We will continue to review the targets set within each goal that is relevant to our business, to integrate them into our long-term planning. Comprehensive information on our CR program can be found within www.BacardiLimited.com. 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT About this Report This is the 10th annual Corporate Responsibility report produced by Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held spirits company in the world. It focuses on our work to manage the social and environmental impacts of our business. This is an interim report relating to fiscal year 2017 Data presented in the People and Philanthropy & (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017). For comprehensive Community Investment sections, as well as safety data information regarding Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi from the People section, cover our offices and our Limited, please visit our website www.BacardiLimited. directly-owned and managed production facilities. com/corporate-responsibility. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI (G4) Sustainability Data on indirect GHG emissions cover our directly-owned Reporting Guidelines. and managed production facilities and large offices with 25 people or more. All other environmental data cover Reporting Content our directly-owned and managed production facilities. The report provides an overview of our progress against Performance data from our suppliers, outsourced bottlers, targets in our five core pillars: Marketplace, Environment, and co-packers are not included. Responsible Sourcing, People, and Philanthropy & Community Investment, as well as future targets in Any restatements of data are noted in the relevant each area. sections of this report. Data has been compiled following the GRI indicator protocols. Data measurement Data techniques and assumptions are cited in the relevant There have been no significant changes in the scope or sections of the report. The WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas boundaries of the data we are reporting this year. Protocol was used to compile our GHG emissions data. Boundary Bacardi Limited refers to the Bacardi group of companies, including Bacardi International Limited. Any reference to “Bacardi” as a Company in this report refers to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries or a group of Bacardi companies. For more information on Bacardi Limited’s corporate structure, brand portfolio, and location of operations please visit www.BacardiLimited.com. Request for Feedback We would like to hear from our stakeholders on our 2017 Corporate Responsibility report. Please email us at CorporateResponsibility@Bacardi.com. Thank you 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT UN Sustainable Development Goals The 2015 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals were adopted by countries to address social, economic, and environmental issues, with each goal having specific targets to be achieved by 2030. These targets provide benchmarks for measurement, and we believe that through partnerships with governments, other companies in the private sector, and civil society, we can have a positive impact on many of the goals. We will continue to review the targets set within each of the below goals relevant to our business, to integrate them into our long-term planning. 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT United Nations Global Compact Principles UNGC PRINCIPLE BACARDI CR STRATEGY Human Rights (Principles 1 & 2) Responsible Sourcing Standards Businesses should support People Strategy and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing Standards, which were developed in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which commit our suppliers to rights; and make sure that they are complying with human rights principles. Through our Responsible Sourcing process, not complicit in human rights abuses. in connection with Sedex, suppliers undergo self-assessments and on-site audits. In addition, in FY17 we developed our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act. Labour (Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6) Responsible Sourcing Standards Businesses should uphold the People Strategy freedom of association and the Code of Conduct effective recognition of the right to Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Through our People Strategy and Responsible Sourcing Standards, we respect the right labour; the effective abolition of to freedom of association among all of our employees, require our suppliers to respect freedom of association, and the right to collective bargaining. In addition, we do not use child labour; and the elimination forced or child labor in any of our operations. Our Company Code of Conduct includes a of discrimination in respect of commitment to equal opportunity and nondiscrimination. employment and occupation. Our Responsible Sourcing Standards and Sedex self-assessments and audits set out the same requirements for our suppliers. Environment (Principles 7, 8, & 9) Environment Strategy Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our group-wide environmental policy adheres to the precautionary principle. We aim environmental challenges; undertake to drive continuous improvement in our facilities’ performance through a management initiatives to promote greater systems approach. environmental responsibility; and Bacardi’s Good Spirited initiative has specific environmental sustainability goals in encourage the development and sourcing, packaging and operations by 2022. The initiative covers more than 170 diffusion of environmentally friendly countries, including 75 offices and 29 manufacturing and bottling facilities, touching technologies. every employee. Within Bacardi, we have focused on energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water, and waste. This complements the efforts in our Responsible Sourcing pillar and the focus of sourcing and packaging. Through our Vendor Qualification Process and Responsible Sourcing Standards,, our suppliers are required to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) Code of Conduct summary Businesses should work against Responsible Sourcing Standards corruption in all its forms, including Our Company Code of Conduct details the behaviors we expect from our people and it extortion and bribery. addresses issues of conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. Our Responsible Sourcing standards state that bribery and corruption are not tolerated. 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Stakeholder Research We commissioned independently conducted stakeholder research in FY12 as part of a more structured approach to stakeholder engagement. We recommissioned the research again at the beginning of FY17. Although there are some changes in the relative priority of issues, there was a consensus among stakeholders that all remained important and should continue to be actively managed and reported upon. Full findings from the research are incorporated in the updated materiality assessment below. Research Approach The research involved structured, one-on-one interviews with a global range of individuals from each of our main stakeholder groups: Customers, Employees, Industry Associations, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Regulators, and Suppliers. The interviews focused on a number of areas, including what stakeholders think are the most important areas to focus on for the beverage alcohol sector and Bacardi specifically. Key Results Bacardi and Responsibility Stakeholders generally considered Bacardi in a positive light. Bacardi Limited’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) mission continues to be recognized by a majority of stakeholders interviewed. However, some were unaware of the extent of Bacardi’s CR engagement in recent years. External stakeholders and partners working with Bacardi were enthusiastic and positive about the support and engagement they experienced. However, some stakeholders noted a lack of a visible connection between Bacardi’s CR activities and its consumer brand messaging. Our environmental initiative, Good Spirited, was seen as a strength internally and externally. Stakeholder feedback will continue to inform our CR work moving forward. 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Key Areas of Interest for Stakeholders There was a consensus that all current material issues remained important, and should continue to be actively managed and reported upon, with some suggestions about additional sub issues and groupings, including a variance of perception regarding what is understood by “Product Responsibility.” In order to clarify the issue, we have updated the definitions to better define what is meant by each issue area. • Responsible Marketing and Promotion includes • Direct Environmental Impacts includes Bacardi’s responsible commercial communications, marketing, direct carbon footprint, air emissions, effluent, water advertising, labeling, and product composition (e.g., use, waste, and transport. Ready To Drink) and promotion. • Good Governance includes business ethics, • Alcohol Responsibility includes actions to prevent the transparency, and controls to achieve regulatory misuse of alcohol (underage drinking, drunk driving, and compliance. binge drinking) and promote responsible drinking. • Supporting Local Communities includes employee • Responsible Supply Chain focuses on the whole volunteering, as well as charitable contributions and procurement process, minimum responsibility standards in-kind donations for our communities. required and relationships with our immediate suppliers. • Sustainable Packaging focuses on making our • Sustainable Agriculture focuses on improvement packaging more sustainable, including material type, in social and environmental standards for raw material packaging weight, and recyclability. suppliers and their communities. • Responsible Employer includes “above and beyond” Human Resources initiatives – employee rights, health and safety, diversity, and training and development. 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Materiality The five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility program – Marketplace; Environment; Responsible Sourcing; People; Philanthropy & Community Investment – reflect our main areas of activity. Our business and the world in which we operate importance of the issues within each pillar by combining are constantly changing, and the specific priorities, the level of priority given by stakeholders with the current risks and opportunities within each of our Corporate or potential impact of the issues on our business. Responsibility pillars need to reflect this. As a result, the Corporate Responsibility Leadership Team An updated materiality assessment was conducted by (CRLT) undertake a biennial review of our materiality our CRLT in FY17 with the results shown on the matrix assessment to determine whether it needs to be below. We use the results of these assessments to inform updated. We use stakeholder research to inform our our Corporate Responsibility strategy and the specific materiality assessment, which prioritizes the relative approach taken within each pillar of our program. Marketplace Increasing Importance to Responsible Marketing Environment Stakeholders & Promotion Responsible Sourcing Alcohol Responsibility People Responsible Employer Responsible Supply Chain Philanthropy and Community Investment Sustainable Agriculture Direct Environmental Impacts Governance Local Communities Good Governance Sustainable Packaging Increasing Impact on Business 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Marketplace at Bacardi Limited As the top priority for our Corporate Responsibility efforts, our Marketplace pillar includes our efforts to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. Through our role as a signatory of the Beer, Wine & Spirits Producers’ Commitments and our support of country-level social aspect organizations (SAOs) in the countries where we operate, we are actively engaged in responsible drinking initiatives at the local level. As reported in the latest Producers’ Commitments Progress Report, Bacardi supported 45 underage drinking prevention education programs operating in 17 countries, reaching over a million underage individuals and 1.5 million influencers. In addition, 38 drunk driving programs were carried out across 19 countries. In FY17 we conducted a mapping of priority countries and Companyled or industry partner responsible drinking initiatives. We found we were active in a responsible drinking program in 82% of identified priority countries. In FY18 we will work to address the gaps, as well as work with our industry partners to better collect data for Producers’ Commitments reporting. We also worked with our global marketing teams to include responsible drinking information on our brand-specific sites and developed a plan for label revisions to include at least one website, messaging, or logo on labels by end of FY18. As part of our efforts on responsible marketing, in FY17 we developed an updated online training module based on our Responsible Marketing Principles. This module will be launched in FY18 with use by all relevant marketing, creative excellence, sales and agency staff. In addition, in partnership with our global advertising agency, BBDO, we implemented a new marketing compliance approval database system. These two updated online tools will better help us train and refresh staff, and track responsible marketing internally. 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress MARKETPLACE TARGETS FOR FY17 MARKETPLACE PROGRESS IN FY17 Launch updated Bacardi responsible drinking website We agreed to incorporate responsible drinking site and incorporate responsibledrinking.org site on brand information on every brand-specific website and began specific websites. the process of including additional responsible drinking information on BacardiLimited.com. Conducted a mapping of priority countries to include Work directly with other industry members to support Company-led and other industry partners’ responsible best practice responsible drinking initiatives in new drinking initiatives in each country. As of FY17, we are countries where there are less established SAOs. active within a social aspect organization (SAO) or trade association’s (TA) responsible drinking initiative in 82% of identified priority countries. Update Company marketing compliance e-training Designed and developed updated e-training module based module in order to better track training completion on Company’s Responsible Marketing Principles. data. Implement new marketing compliance approval System developed and tailored to Company’s needs. First database system for all Company marketing and creative trainings for project leaders and relevant staff completed by excellence staff and BBDO personnel. end of FY17. Work with IARD and country-level SAOs to better Participated on IARD’s program committee and worked collect evidence of successful underage drinking with their Partnership Council to collect data globally. In campaigns and share those in partnership with other FY17 45 Bacardi-supported education programs operating SAOs and Trade Associations in order to reach more in 17 countries reached 1,148,045 underage individuals and than 1.8 million underage persons with LDA campaigns, 1,626,814 influencers. as measured through the Producers’ Commitment reporting. 100% of marketing agency contracts are in compliance All marketing agency contracts are in compliance with with the Producers’ Commitments. Producers’ Commitments indicators. 100% of ads placed by Company with at least a 70% All traditional and digital media placements by Company minimum legal drinking age audience. had at least a 70% minimum legal drinking age audience (or higher where required). Incorporate responsibledrinking.org on Company Planned, agreed, and developed label revisions that websites and implement plan to include incorporate responsible drinking website, messaging or logo responsibledrinking.org and responsibility messaging or to be placed on all labels by end of FY18. logo on all labels by end of FY 18. 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress MARKETPLACE TARGETS FOR FY18 Update Bacardi responsible drinking website information to incorporate International Alliance for Responsible Drinking facts, and other global and local alcohol responsibility resources, and link to BacardiLimited.com. Include nutritional information on BacardiLimited.com. Increase percentage of active priority country responsible drinking initiatives, whether in partnership with other industry members or Company led, including enhancing Slow Drinking. Launch updated marketing compliance training module globally for relevant marketing, creative excellence, sales and agency staff to use for new hires and as a yearly refresher for existing employees, with translation available in at least eight languages. Design and launch updated responsible marketing principles for all Company staff. 100% use of new digital legal compliance system (Creative Approval Hub) by global marketing, creative excellence, legal teams, and BBDO personnel to track global marketing campaign compliance approval. Through partnerships with IARD and local SAOs and TAs, increase LDA and influencer reach by 20% through responsible drinking initiatives, as measured through the Producers’ Commitment reporting. 100% of marketing agency contracts in compliance with the Producers’ Commitments. 100% of traditional and digital media placements by Company with at least a 70% minimum legal drinking age audience. All Company products to have at least one responsible drinking website, messaging, or logo on label. Pilot Company employee responsible drinking pledge in select countries to ascertain value and viability for potential global roll-out. Ensure all six safeguards of the Producers’ Commitments Digital Guiding Principles are in place for all country-level brand social media platforms and websites. 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Key Highlights Slow Drinking Created by Bacardi in France in 2012, Slow Drinking was developed in response to the European slow movement a cultural shift toward slowing down life’s pace and enjoying life’s pleasures. Applied to the consumption of beverage alcohol, it promotes responsible consumption by transforming a simple drink into the art of tasting by giving priority to quality over quantity. Crafted together with lifestyle and culinary experts, 10 principles emerged that encourage savoring your cocktail with friends, with food, and always in the right amount. The Slow Drinking website is now in three languages (French, English and Italian) and in FY17 expanded to Spain and Italy. Through education on social media networks (with more than two million people reached in FY17) and Slow Drinking workshops, the goal of Slow Drinking is to engage our consumers, customers, and partners in a movement that promotes moderate, responsible, and enjoyable consumption, in line with the Producers’ Commitments. Visit SlowDrinking.com. Asahi Bacardi Limited Be 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Environment at Bacardi Limited Our environmental sustainability commitment has grown over the past 155 years and we are proud of the voluntary actions we have taken to be an industry leader in environmental performance in our operations. We recognize the environmental impact of producing our products and have implemented procedures to continually improve efficiency. The key potential areas of impact we focus on include: • Water use • Climate change • Waste In FY17 we hit our goal of 50% greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction (as compared to FY06) ahead of our target by end of 2017! We also worked to improve the efficiency and reliability of our three biomass boilers to ensure our GHG reductions were maximized. We will continue to work to reduce our As of the end of FY17 99.65% of our waste from our emissions, taking into account our overall value chain production sites does not go to landfill, with 11 of our 29 moving forward. facilities achieving Zero Waste to Landfill status. We will continue to eliminate landfill waste at all our production While we haven’t hit our water use efficiency goal sites by focusing on reducing, reusing, and recycling by just yet (55% by end of 2017): in FY17 our overall our goal of end of 2022. improvement on our water use efficiency index was 46.5% vs. FY06; we will maintain our efforts, focusing on In FY18 we will look to the UN Sustainable Development water consumption, to continue our journey to reach Goals and the Paris Agreement (COP21) targets to ensure 55% improvement mark. our targets are in line with each. In order to appropriately measure in accordance with these international standards, we will set long-term targets for water using a context-based approach, and for GHG reduction we will use Science Based Targets (a partnership initiative between the Carbon Disclosure Project, UN Global Compact, World Resources Institute, and World Wide Fund for Nature, with the goal to enable leading companies to set ambitious and meaningful corporate GHG reduction targets). For comprehensive information on our Environment strategy, including FY17 highlights, please visit our website at BacardiLimited.com/corporate-responsibility 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Targets and Progress ENVIRONMENT TARGETS FOR FY17 ENVIRONMENT PROGRESS IN FY17 Continue implementation of resource efficiency Due to extraordinary activities at some of our sites, only action plans to ensure we achieve a reduction of 0.2% improvement was achieved in water use efficiency vs. 55% in water use efficiency index and 50% in GHG FY16, and an overall 46.5% improvement vs. FY06. We will emissions intensity index by Dec 2017 vs FY06. maintain our efforts, focusing on water consumption to continue our journey to reach 55% improvement mark. For GHG emissions intensity, we achieved our 50% reduction target more than a year ahead of our target date. Improve the efficiency and reliability of the three Although we suffered some biomass boilers downtime existing biomass boilers to ensure GHG reductions during this period, corrective and preventive actions have maximized. been implemented to improve efficiency reliability and minimize equipment downtime. Implementation of waste stream action plans, Achieved 0.35% waste to landfill, which is on track to aiming to achieve less than 0.4% of total waste from achieve our long-term zero waste to landfill by 2022. In production sites to landfill. Our long-term vision is to addition, already 11 of our 29 facilities have achieved the achieve Zero Waste to landfill in all our facilities by Zero Waste to Landfill status, four more than FY16. 2022. Expand the Green Champion rosters to increase The Green Champion roster was expanded to 42 employee involvement in additional functional areas employees, from 22 in FY16, to include representatives outside of Operations. from functions beyond Operations. For the third year in a row, Good Spirited Awards were delivered in six award categories. Successfully pass our surveillance audits and get We successfully passed our surveillance audits for ISO our new BOMBAY SAPPHIRE® manufacturing site 9001, ISO14001, and OHSAS 18001 management systems in Laverstoke Mill in the scope of the “triple crown” standards for existing sites. Our new site at Laverstoke Mill certification (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001). completed the pre-audit assessment. 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Targets and Progress ENVIRONMENT TARGETS FOR FY18 Implement specific action plans to reduce water consumption, with special focus at three of our main distilleries located in Puerto Rico (Cataño) and Scotland (Aberfeldy and MacDuff ). Due to changes in our strategy, focusing more on consumption of water, versus overall usage, these action plans should put us on track to achieve a 50% reduction (vs. FY06) during the second half of this reporting period. We are still aiming to reach the original 55% reduction goal, but additional time is expected to get there. Define new targets (short and long-term) for water use and GHG emissions, as part of our future sustainability strategy. The new scope will be expanded to go beyond our four walls, with additional focus on the upstream portion of our value chain. The target for water will use a context-based approach. A science-based method will be used for setting a target for GHG reduction. Continue with the implementation of required waste stream action plans, aiming to achieve less than 0.32% of total waste from production sites to landfill, towards our goal of Zero Waste to Landfill of all sites by 2022. Work on our transition plan to the new ISO 9001-2015 and ISO 140012015 management system standards at all manufacturing sites, in order to comply with the three-year transition process set by ISO to maintain our certification. Gap assessments to be completed and action plans in place to achieve full transition by September 2018. 16 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Data & Performance – How We Measure Our Performance Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute Our targets are based on improvements in our totals and efficiency metrics. Absolute measures performance against our efficiency index. These have are straightforward – for example, total quantity of been restated as required by the Greenhouse Gas water consumed. Efficiency metrics normalize these Protocol published by the World Resources Institute and absolute totals against an appropriate business World Business Council for Sustainable Development, output – for example, water used per unit of product to reflect changes in the business, such as closures. manufactured. Absolute baselines for all measures were established in FY06. We have not restated our absolute baselines and Bacardi Environmental Sustainability Tracking (BEST) therefore do not make any claims based on absolute uses a common accounting practice – flexible improvements against our baselines. As we develop our budgeting – to measure the performance in our next cycle of long term targets during FY18 we intend reporting year against our base year. Full details of to develop absolute as well as efficiency improvement this approach are described in our 2013 report. In targets. addition, we report on indicators from the Global Reporting Initiative G4 standards. Moving forward we Restatements: Base year figures, and those from will look to the UN Sustainable Development Goals previous reporting years, are sometimes recalculated and the Paris Agreement (COP21) targets to ensure to reflect significant changes within the Company we appropriately measure in accordance with these (e.g. acquisitions, divestments, etc.). During FY17 we international standards. experienced some structural changes, including the addition of our new production site at Laverstoke, UK, and the consolidation of other manufacturing operations. Recalculation was done in accordance with protocols established by the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) guidance documents. In addition, emission calculation for fuel and electricity are recalculated, based on the latest emission factors (e.g. International Energy Agency). 17 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Water Water Use Our total water used in FY17, measured by the efficiency index, was 0.2% better than FY16. This represents an overall improvement on our water use efficiency index of 46.5% vs. FY06. Absolute water use was down 15.9%, mostly due to consolidation of manufacturing activities. Action Plans are in place at each of our manufacturing sites to continue to improve our water use efficiency. Water Used Water Supply FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 EN8: Total Water Withdrawal by Source (cubic meters) (per unit of production) 56.4 54.6 53.6 53.5 F WATER SOURCES SOURCE WATER FY16 FY17 (Baseline FY06 100) Public Supplies 830,197 801,146 Total Water Used (000 cubic meters) 3,750 3,624 3,593 3,022 Groundwater 1,339,434 590,888 Surface Water 1,423,665 1,629,891 Harvested 0 0 TOTAL 3,593,296 3,021,925 Water Discharge by Volume Water used includes noncontact cooling water. FY16 FY17 Direct Discharge (m3) 729,679 759,426 Indirect Discharge (m )3 301,451 346,864 Application (m ) 3 208,716 78,784 Total Volume Discharged (m3) 1,239,846 1,185,074 Changes in the production mix and manufacturing consolidations in FY17 affected water discharge in the same way as water use. We manage used process water from our facilities in three ways: 1. Direct discharges of treated wastewater to local bodies of water following onsite treatment (64 percent) 2. Indirect discharges of treated wastewater to municipal treatment facilities (29 percent) 3. Beneficial land application, including irrigation and fertilizer to improve crop production (in countries where it is permitted) (7 percent) Of the total water released by our production facilities, 1,106,290 cubic meters was discharged as wastewater and 78,784 cubic meters was applied to cropland as a fertilizer or for irrigation. The water that is applied to land for beneficial reuse is returned to the crops that provide our raw feedstock to make spirits in countries where regulatory authorities permit. Changes in the production mix and manufacturing consolidations in FY17 affected water discharge in the same way as water use. 18 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Waste Waste Management EN23 Total Weight of Waste by Type In FY 17: and Disposal Method (Metric Tons) • Only 0.35% of total waste was sent to landfill FY16 FY17 % CHANGE YtY • 11 manufacturing sites have achieved Zero Non-Hazardous Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 163,189 184,984 Waste to Landfill Incineration/Treatment 541 704 876 642 Subtotal (and % YtY change) 164,606 186,330 13.2% By characterizing the different waste streams, Hazardous Waste we’ve identified opportunities focusing on Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 28 7 Incineration/Treatment 5 5 reduction at the source and then followed 23 1 by reuse/recycling options. We are building Subtotal (and % YtY change) 56 13 -76.7% on progress at our production sites to reduce Total Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 163,217 184,991 landfill waste, and plan to work more closely Incineration/Treatment 546 709 with supply partners to ensure that all the 899 643 Total (and % YtY change) 164,662 186,343 13.2% packaging we receive can be recycled. 19 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Energy Energy Use • 48.8% improvement in non-renewable energy intensity index since FY06 • 4.8% improvement on total energy intensity index since FY16 • Greatest improvements achieved in direct energy, by switching to renewable fuel sources (e.g. biomass boilers) FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Non-renewable Energy Intensity Index (Total non-renewable energy per unit of production) 71.5 68.8 57.1 51.2 (Baseline FY06 = 100) Total Energy Intensity Index 85.0 84.2 82.8 78.8 (Total energy per unit of production) (Baseline FY06 = 100) EN3: Energy Consumption within the Organization (TJ) FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Contract green electricity and wind power Heavy fuel oil 573 468 229 153 includes only that from dedicated contract Natural Gas 431 432 449 389 suppliers. Grid electricity includes all forms Total fuel from non-renewable sources 1,004 900 678 542 Biogas 213 208 231 166 of renewable and non-renewable energy on Biomass 0 64 217 193 the national grids. Total fuel from renewable sources 213 272 448 359 Grid Electricity 186 183 192 132 Hydro Electricity 34 38 53 83 Wind Electricity 1 1 1 1 Total Electricity 221 222 246 216 Total Energy Consumption within Bacardi 1,438 1,394 1,372 1,117 Renewable Energy 7% In FY17, 38% of electricity was purchased through renewable contracts and 40% of fuel was from Total fuel from non renewable sources. The overall renewable sources proportion of renewable energy increased from 37% in FY16 to 40% Total electricity from non renewable sources in FY17. 32% 49% Total fuel from renewable sources Total electricity from renewable sources 12% 20 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Emissions Long term target – Reduce total GHG emissions intensity index by 50% versus FY06 by end of 2017. Current status – Total GHG emissions intensity index FY2013 FY14 FY2014 FY15 FY16 FY17 for FY17 is 54.7% lower than FY06. SOx 904 728 302 134 NOx 109 92 55 40 Particulates 16 13 6 4 In FY17: Total Air Emissions 1,129 833 363 178 • GHG absolute emissions (Direct and Indirect) Significant reduction achieved on emission of reduced 16% versus FY16 conventional pollutants by increasing the use • Direct GHG emissions reduced 14% vs. FY16 of renewable energy. By maximizing the use of • Indirect GHG emissions (market-based) reduced biogas, and the installation of biomass boilers, 23% vs. FY16 we reduced the use of fossil fuels responsible for these emissions. EN15: Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) EN16: Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) (Market-based) FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Direct GHG Emissions (Tonnes) 58,100 52,400 36,600 31,300 Indirect GHG Emissions (Tonnes)*** 26,800 24,800 24,200 18,700 Production Process Emissions (Tonnes)* 500 500 500 560 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 TOTAL (Tonnes) 91,000 83,300 66,900 56,160 GHG Intensity Index (GHG Emissions per unit of production) 67.4 64.5 51.1 45.3 (Baseline FY 06 100%)** *Estimated figures. We are in the process of defining a more accurate way to track these emissions ** Intensity index doesn’t include estimations for production emissions and offices ***Scope 2 emissions are calculated using market-based emission factors. Our FY17 total indirect located-based emissions were 25,100 tonnes. 21 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Key Highlights Bacardi in India Good Spirited Initiatives Bacardi in India and its Good Spirited initiatives address internal and external improvements in its multifaceted strategy. Bacardi’s Nanjangud facility is the FY17 Good Spirited Production Facility Winner because of its extraordinary creative engagement of stakeholders and innovation in promoting eco-conscious and socially Additionally, it reached out to four nearby villages responsible initiatives. to work together to replace grossly inefficient and expensive incandescent lighting with 160 recycled CFL The facility’s efforts, which included a reduction in bulbs removed from the plant during the LED-bulb energy use and a polluted riverbank cleanup exemplifies changeover. a full-circle commitment to our Company culture as the facility delivered the most balanced impact for the Indian team members also illustrated their commitment environment, the Company, and within the community to the Good Spirited culture as 15 employees worked where it exists. tirelessly for several hours to clean up the bank of the Kapila River. The crew removed cloth debris as well as Specifically, the Nanjangud facility reduced power non-biodegradable trash and plastic. consumption by 15 percent over the last two years as it optimized operations with a complete changeover Together, the facility’s activities show its dedication to LED lighting from less-efficient CFL bulbs. The facility to live “Good Spirited” and responsibly help the next didn’t stop there—it promoted energy-saving tips and generation. Congratulations to Bacardi in India and our awareness on campus. other 3rd Annual Good Spirited Award Winners. 22 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing at Bacardi Limited Our Responsible Sourcing vision is for all raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing environmental and social impacts, while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. Along with our own Responsible Sourcing Standards, short of our original goal of reducing by 10% by the end our Vendor Qualification Process and our partnership of 2017. While the original goal of reduction was high, with Sedex for audits and action plans, we work with many of our products have undergone a redesign which our suppliers to meet global sourcing standards in presented challenges to weight reduction overall. As we the areas of labor standards, human rights, health move forward we will continue to aim to achieve weight and safety, environmental protection, and business reduction, while keeping in mind the wishes of our integrity. consumer and our marketing and branding strategy. Responsible Sourcing continues to rank high For FY18 we will continue to ensure 100% of suppliers among our stakeholders as a priority matter and it assessed through our Vendor Qualification Process, will remain a focus of our CR program. In FY17 we and work with any new suppliers to be linked through continued towards our original goal to achieve 100% Sedex. We will continue to implement action plans for of sugarcane-derived product suppliers for rum with grapes, agave, botanicals, wheat, and sugarcane-derived Bonsucro certification by 2022, and expect to reach products. this goal by the end of 2017! We also worked with new suppliers on their standards to ensure they are on the Bonsucro certification path. For other raw materials, we developed action plans for a sustainable sourcing strategy, including botanicals, agave, and wheat. We achieved a 91% of Global Direct and 100% of Global Point of Sale Sedex-linked suppliers, working towards our goal of a completed Self Assessment Questionnaire and audit for each supplier by end of FY18. We continued to work with all suppliers on our Good Spirited goals, ensuring we work together to reduce water use, greenhouse gases, and waste, as well as a reduction in packaging weight. We have achieved a 3.6% glass weight reduction since FY08, 23 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FOR FY17 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROGRESS IN FY17 100% of all new and existing suppliers to be assessed 100% of new and existing suppliers are VQP assessed according to our Vendor Qualification Process. and qualified. 85% of Global Direct suppliers and 100% of Global 91% of Global Direct and 100% of Global Point of Sale Point of sale suppliers linked to Bacardi through suppliers are linked to Bacardi through Sedex. Sedex with process led by our Category Managers. A completed self-assessment questionnaire and audit to be completed by end of FY18 for each supplier. Define and implement sustainable agriculture • Action plans developed for new LCD and Molasses sourcing strategy beyond sugarcane-derived suppliers and we are working with external auditors for products for rum. Focus crops include: LCD, Molasses, LEBLON® Bonsucro certification. Botanicals, Agave, and Wheat. Category Managers are responsible for action plan implementation. • We have also developed action plans for all botanicals, including developing farmer’s capabilities and support for environmental sustainability. As needed, we are working with local NGOs on implementation. • Developed a wheat yield improvement program with wheat supplier. • Agave action plan defined to include selecting a credible sustainable certification program. 100% of sugarcane-derived products suppliers for All molasses sources currently sustainably certified rum Bonsucro certified by the end of FY17 (The Good and have an action plan for all to receive Bonsucro Spirted original goal was 40% certified by 2017 and certification by end of CY17, including new suppliers. 100% certified by 2022). More than 80% of LCD suppliers are Bonsucro certified, with plans to achieve certification for all by end of CY17. • Twenty-seven raw material strategic suppliers have been trained and have agreed to collaborate and to Deploy Good Spirited training program with our provide data on water use reduction. strategic direct suppliers to build awareness and develop action plans to meet the Good Spirited • All strategic packaging suppliers trained on Good sourcing, environment, and packaging goals together. Spirited program, including moving from weight to carbon intensity, energy, and water KPIs. We have achieved a 3.6% glass weight reduction since FY08. 24 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FOR FY18 Ongoing target to ensure 100% of our suppliers assessed to our Vendor Qualification Process. 95% of Global Direct spend and 100% of Global Point of Sales suppliers linked to Bacardi through Sedex. In addition, we will work with local teams to ensure local POS suppliers are using Sedex and completing SAQs. Raw Material Action Plans: • For grapes, work with Prosecco and Asti Consortiums to achieve highest level of standards with focus on environment, ethics, and economics; including for Asti a reduction of residual phito treatment (35%) and for white table wine a carbon footprint reduction (20%). • Action plan defined for Agave suppliers to be sustainably certified. • Botanicals action plan underway, our goal is for 60% of main botanicals sustainably certified by FY18, 100% by FY19. • Continue to build on wheat supplier improvement programs. • LEBLON® to achieve Bonsucro certification. For sugarcane-derived products for rum, ensure VQP audits for new suppliers and work with them to achieve Bonsucro certification by end of CY17. This includes LEBLON®. Train all new strategic raw materials and packaging suppliers on Good Spirited program goals. Work with suppliers to achieve Forest Stewardship Council certification for labels and corrugated packaging. 25 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Key Highlights adm Partnership Bacardi has worked with adm since FY14 as our single adm Brand Assurance & Compliance partner for Global Point of Sale, and adm is our largest POS partner overall, accounting for 40% of total volume. adm CEO Justin Barton shares its CR philosophy, “We regard sustainable practice as a top priority…. we want to make a meaningful contribution to acting responsibly towards people and the environment. We are convinced that this is the only way to achieve business success.” Recently, Bacardi worked to develop our Global POS Quality Manual together with adm. The manual provides a process for ensuring our global standards are met in regards to purchasing any POS material. These standards include: • QMS (Quality Management System, based on ISO9001 requirement) • CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility, based on CSR standard SMETA BPG Best Practice Guidance requirement) • EMS (Environmental Management System, based on ISO14000 requirement). adm suppliers sign their Code of Conduct and submit an audit of their manufacturing site. In-house Sedex trained and certified auditors (unique to the POSM industry) use the SMETA 4 Pillar audit based on human rights, business ethics, environment, labor standards, and health and safety. adm works with suppliers on any non-compliance to ensure they are addressed in a given time period. As of FY17: • 98 % of adm suppliers are registered Sedex members and more importantly 96% of the factories used have a valid SMETA 4 Pillar CSR audit in place. • adm achieved EcoVadis Gold rating with a ranking putting them in the top 1% of all 30,000 organizations assessed in all categories. • adm is a signatory to UN Global Compact (as is Bacardi). As a rapidly expanding organization, adm is committed to ensuring it implements a compliance framework that allows it to be alerted to any emerging risks and have appropriate systems and processes in place to eradicate such risks. We are proud to be their partner and will continue to develop and embed our CR framework with all suppliers. 26 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE People at Bacardi Limited Bacardi employees are guardians of a tradition of excellence. We are a family owned company that embraces the spirit of family in the way we inspire and enable our people to perform every day. Moving forward we have chosen not to use the word ‘employee’ for the people who contribute so significantly to our business, but rather ‘Primos’ which is the Spanish word for cousins. It carries with it the family spirit of Bacardi and reflects how connected we are to each other and how committed we are to each other’s success. Our People strategy is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. We aspire to unleash the potential of our people by creating a working environment where every Primo can take advantage of the development opportunities Bacardi offers. We will inspire, engage and support our people and intend to become recognized internally and externally as the “Envy of the Industry” for our People, Brands and Performance. We do this by recognizing Primos for exemplifying the Bacardi values, equip them to excel within the company, and promote the importance of diversity at all levels. In FY17 we successfully launched our Becoming Bacardi mobile application in more than 10 countries and made it available in 10 languages. In addition, we had 81 Primos participate across seven Coaching to Win workshops around the world. These workshops enable our Primos to accelerate professional development. Also in FY17 we conducted our biennial Global Primos Engagement Survey, with a best-in-class participation rate of 89% (as defined by global HR and technology consulting firm IBM Kenexa). Our engagement index (a global HR measure that companies use to assess 4 key elements of employee engagement: satisfaction, pride, retention, and advocacy) increased by 2% points over FY15. While we are proud of the results, we know there is more work to be done to address some of the constructive feedback to ensure Bacardi is the place our Primos want to be. We are proud that 36% of senior management roles are held by women; an example of our ambitious Women in Leadership initiative. In FY17 we successfully hosted the S.H.E. Summit Bacardi in Miami and New York and look forward to expanding the reach into other countries to support the women of Bacardi and position the Company as a relevant voice in the journey to increase gender equality. 27 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress PEOPLE TARGETS FOR FY17 PEOPLE PROGRESS IN FY17 Globally launch Becoming Bacardi Mobile Application Becoming Bacardi is now available in more than 10 (in English) across five pilot countries. Make the countries across all regions. In addition, toolkit materials Becoming Bacardi toolkit materials available in local are available in 10 languages covering all our countries. languages for all countries. Improve communication of Workday resource as an While we have improved communication and usage of internal search firm for Bacardi employees. Continue to Workday, and designed the Next Move internal search achieve 70% internal hire ratio. solution ready for pilot in FY18, our internal hire ratio is still under target and sits at 35.5%. Develop Women in Leadership (WIL) strategy and 36% of senior management roles are held by women. plan to ensure gender diversity continues among We hosted S.H.E. Summits in Miami and New York and Bacardi leadership. Strive to maintain 33% of senior launched diversity initiatives in Southern Europe. management roles held by women. Ensure Action Team (grassroots employee led teams FY17 participation rate in the Global Employee who review survey results and build and implement Engagement Survey was 89%, surpassing FY15 action plans to address areas of greatest interest/ participation (86%). Globally 55 Action Teams were concern) presence and engagement in all Bacardi established as a result of the FY15 survey. These Action hubs. Run 3rd Global Employee Engagement Survey Teams, in addition to organization-wide initiatives, in January 2017, with “best in class” participation and resulted in an increase in all 70 survey categories but improved levels of engagement across key indices, one over FY15 results. The engagement index consisting including: satisfaction, pride, retention and advocacy. of items relating to satisfaction, pride, retention, and advocacy increased by two percentage points. Roll-out Company “Coaching to Win” and “Bacardi Ready” Eighty-one learners participated across seven Coaching internal training to employees to accelerate professional to Win workshops in every region/function. Bacardi Ready development of employees. Pilot Bacardi Ready in South Africa included AMEA & APAC regions. We had Emerging Markets and run at least 1 Coaching to Win in strong program ratings in terms of both experience and each region/function. skills enhancement. Bacardi Ready was launched and we also designed a joint graduate development program called ‘Volemos’ (‘to fly’ in Spanish) for Bacardi and its distributor in North America. Develop Company Human Rights Policy encompassing Published Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement already existing standards and codes, including in compliance with UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UNCG, the statement, Bacardi Responsible Sourcing Standards, SDGs, and the ILO, to showcase Bacardi’s commitment and our Code of Conduct encompass the Company’s to workforce and community human rights. commitment to workforce and community human rights. Build People scorecard to measure yearly KPIs. Indicators Built and tested People Scorecard. Ready to launch in will include diversity, internal hire ratio, Becoming FY18 and will be used in Q1 across all countries. Bacardi uptake, Bacardi Ready and other training programs, talent review and succession planning efforts, implementation of Action Team efforts, performance management, and recognition programs. 28 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress PEOPLE TARGETS FOR FY18 Globally embed Becoming Bacardi Mobile Application across all countries. 95% of new hires complete the four elements of Becoming Bacardi in all countries in the first 90 days (Mixology, Development Plans, Buddy, and Becoming Bacardi App) Pilot Applicant Tracking System to increase our ability to tap into and select internal and external talent for Bacardi. Pilot Next Move solution (a proactive internal headhunting program to explore career interests of Primos after 2+ years in current position). Maintain current Women in Leadership ratios and expand external presence through S.H.E. Summits to Asia and Latin America. Launch of Women in Leadership mentoring program in Eastern Europe and Northern Europe. 10% of employees globally involved in Action Teams, as a follow-up to the Primos Engagement Survey, in line with FY15 participation. Pulse Surveys deployed on a regional basis. Continue to expand Coaching to Win through 2 workshops per region or function. In addition, we will certify 13 internal talents with the International Coach Federation (coaching certification body) to ensure high quality delivery. Build internal expertise extending Leadership Insights (a series of intensive diagnostic and coaching experiences at different leadership levels) across the organization. Roll out Bacardi Ready in India. Pilot Volemos and kick off second Rising Stars program. 29 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Key Highlights Primos Engagement Survey Engagement at Bacardi is all about unleashing the passion and energy of our Primos. We have been asking for their opinions in a global census for the past five years. Their feedback is so critical in helping us to understand what we are doing well and what we should be doing differently to make Bacardi ‘the place they want to be’. We use the insights from our Primos Engagement Survey to prioritize actions on a global, functional, regional and local level that can be measured, monitored and celebrated. We held our latest Global Primos Engagement Survey in FY17 and 89% of Primos provided their input – a participation rate well above best-in-class (as defined by global HR and technology consulting firm IBM Kenexa). In fact, for each global engagement survey our response rate has consistently been above 85% a number that makes us proud. In our FY17 results all 70 survey items advanced except one. Compared with our FY15 survey, our Engagement Index score (a global HR measure thatl companies use to assess 4 key elements of employee engagement: satisfaction, pride, retention, and advocacy) rose two points from 67% to 69%. As of the end of FY17, results began to be cascaded across the organization and priorities are being identified so Action Teams can be formed to allow the identification of employee-driven solutions for those areas of greatest interest. Just asking for feedback is not enough and our focus now is about supporting Primos-driven Action Teams to make a positive difference to their lives and those of others at Bacardi. Because the success of our Action Teams is so important to us, we have Action Team Champions across the world whose role it is to support and enable their success. 30 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Women in Leadership The Women in Leadership (WIL) initiative is the cornerstone of our diversity commitment. Established in 2010, it has evolved to incorporate several programs that support women developing their careers within Bacardi at offices worldwide. This includes trainings and workshops, external partnerships, communications, workplace engagement, community relations, and a mentoring program that supports the advancement and success of female leaders to management and executive positions. Our Women in Leadership (WIL) initiative has spread across the globe into offices in the U.S., Europe and Latin America. We focus our efforts on identifying and developing women in the organization who will enhance the longterm growth of Bacardi. These efforts are supported across multiple countries by WIL committees who work to build awareness and engagement on WIL activities. The Inaugural S.H.E. Summit Bacardi was held in September 2016 in Miami, Florida. Inspired by S.H.E. Summit, the renowned global empowerment conference devoted to supporting thriving leaders and women’s movement champions around the world, this event was aimed at celebrating, convening, and cultivating rising top talent. More than 400 professionals attended, representing various industries including spirits, marketing, transportation, law, consulting, and more. The sold-out event featured a prestigious list of dynamic speakers with incredible (personal and professional) stories. Informative workshops, thought-provoking panel discussions and keynotes included topics such as showing up for your life, the power of intention, stories of motherhood, well-being, self-care and a new initiative to encourage participation among male employees: Engage the Village. 31 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE People Scorecard G4-10 Total number of permanent employees by employment contract, employment type, region and gender. At the end of FY17, our total workforce was 5,825, comprising 5,625 employees and 200 supervised workers. Total Workforce Employees by Type of Employment Contract Employees Supervised Workers Full Time Part time 200 105 5,116 5,625 Permanent Employees by Employment Type Workforce by Region Permanent Temporary North America Europe Middle East & Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 404 654 884 1,044 5,221 2,984 59 32 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age, group, gender, and region. In FY17, 910 external new employees joined the business, representing a hire rate of 16%. In FY17, 1105 employees left the company, representing a turnover rate of 20%. 432 promotions, 187 lateral moves (for a combined promotion/mover rate of 11%), 1105 turnover New Hires by Gender Employee Turnover by Gender Male Female Male Female 413 392 518 692 New Hires by Region Employee Turnover by Region North America Europe Middle East & Africa North America Europe Middle East & Africa Latin America Asia Pacific Latin America Asia Pacific 121 145 144 126 252 320 372 505 20 10 New Hires by Age Employee Turnover by Age Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 29 171 299 425 456 635 33 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE G4-11 Percentage of total employees Employees Covered by Collective covered by collective bargaining Bargaining Agreements: agreements. Covered In FY17, 40% of employees were Not Covered 2,264 covered by collective bargaining agreements. 3,361 G4-LA12 Composition of governance and ethics bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender and age group. Total Board Members Total Board Members by Gender Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Male Female 0 2 2 14 14 Total Employees Total Employees Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Male Female 874 1,251 2,094 3,500 3,531 34 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Safety Safety Data We have a responsibility to keep our people safe at work and our vision is an accident-free Bacardi. In FY17 we held 20 Safety Days at manufacturing sites around the world. In addition, our Safety Teams produced multiple resources to keep safety top of mind for all employees. As part of a global benchmarking group (ORC HSE), representing multiple industries, we share best practices a few times a year to ensure our standards and programs will have the most impact. Our goal every year is to put “safety first” to achieve an accident-free environment. In FY17 we had a total of 18 accident-free sites out of 31 measured (please note this total number includes the 29 manufacturing sites, as well as our Distribution Center in Jacksonville and our recently opened distillery in Louisville). FY17 is the second-best year in our Company LTA (Lost Time Accident) rate both in our manufacturing sites and globally in our offices. We improved by 18.5% our overall performance versus FY16. Number of LTAs LTA Rate Manufacturing NonManufacturing Total FY14 2.6 22 9 31 FY15 1.1 8 6 14 FY16 1.5 10 9 19 FY17 1.2 9 6 15 Total Recordable Incident Rate (Manufacturing Sites) Per Million of Worked Hours 9.0 8.0 7.0 6.0 5.0 4.0 8.0 3.0 6.3 6.6 2.0 5.2 1.0 0 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 In FY14 Bacardi introduced consolidated reporting of Total Recordable Incidents across all manufacturing sites. Total Recordable Incidents gives a broader picture of safety performance and is aligned with our vision of building an accident-free workplace. This additional indicator includes Lost Time Accident as well as any restricted work case and medical treatment case. This key performance indicator decreased by 35% for three years in a row between April 2013 and March 2016 ending at an annual average of 5.2 Total Recordable Incidents per million of worked hours. In FY17, there has been a slight increase, however, the rate is still 18% lower than when first introduced. 35 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Safety Targets and Progress SAFETY TARGETS FOR FY17 SAFETY PROGRESS IN FY17 Improve overall B-Safe Observations* rate by 10% vs Overall B-Safe Observations rate increased by 64% vs FY16. FY16. We overdelivered this leading KPI through the completion of +5,000 B-Safe Observations. Overall company LTA rate in FY17 was 1.2 per Overall LTA rate of less than 1 per million of worked million of worked hours. This is our second-best year hours by 2022 performance. Safety First program** – work towards achieving Silver priority standards were achieved in all plants Silver priority standards in all plants as a step towards and plans defined to reach Silver level in full by achieving all Silver standards by FY18 FY18. We are on track with our company Safety First program implementation. SAFETY TARGETS FOR FY18 Improve overall B-Safe Observations* rate by 30% vs FY17. While we started to report this rate globally in FY16, we believe our FY17 target was most likely set too low with activities expanding. Our FY18 target is reasonably ambitious as B-Safe Observations reinforce safe behaviors and correct unsafe behaviors through feedback. This is one of the key elements of our safety culture and is contributing to the improvement of our safety performance. This target will be supported by the training of 100% of our employees in all our manufacturing sites in conducting B-Safe Observations. Overall LTA rate of less than 1 per million of worked hours by 2022 Safety First program** – achieving all Silver standards by FY18 in all plants * B-Safe Observations are behavioral based safety observations and feedback, based on best practice Behavioral Based Study programs, to positively reinforce safe behaviors at work, started at Bacardi in 2009. All employees at our manufacturing sites can conduct B-safe Observations as long as they receive the proper training. **Safety First is our home built program to raise our safety culture, designed with four levels: Foundation, Bronze, Silver and Gold. Silver level corresponds to advanced practices that are rolled-out globally. 36 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Philanthropy & Community Investment Bacardi is committed to the communities in which we live and work. We encourage employees to volunteer their time in programs and activities to support local organizations and we support the many worthwhile charities in our towns working to better our communities. Our FY17 annual reported CR Month activities were 2,500 volunteer hours in 20 countries; however, due to a lack of designated CR Ambassadors and insufficient tracking methods we believe the numbers are higher. These challenges encouraged us to identify a CR Ambassador at every Bacardi site where we have a group of employees. Through in-depth research and regional management outreach we were able to identify 57 CR Ambassadors in 40 countries for FY18 CR Month implementation. Our CR Month activities would not be possible without the hard work of these Ambassadors. Because of these updates, we are expecting a more accurate reported number next year. Also this past year we reviewed external best practice and industry standards for company charitable policies and drafted a new global Company Policy to guide Company employees in the charitable organization selection, vetting, and tracking process, with roll-out in FY18. To adequately track charitable donations and employee engagement activities, we implemented a new online tracking tool for all Company employees to use. This new CR Database will track charitable donations and employee engagement from FY18 onward. Moving forward, in FY18 we will roll out a Charitable Donations & Sponsorships Policy with trainings, webinars, and other communications tools, to guide all employees in the process and be able to better report and capture our total community investment by end of FY18. In addition, CR Month activities will be tracked in the new online CR Database by CR Ambassadors, providing an easy way to report on country and site-specific activities. 37 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Targets and Progress PCI TARGETS FOR FY17 PCI PROGRESS IN FY17 Through internal engagement and external Researched and drafted new global Company Policy benchmarking, Bacardi to update PCI guidelines to guide employees in the charitable organization and donations policy for community outreach, and selection, vetting, and tracking process. communicate new policy globally to all employees. Launch internal database and tracking system to Launched new internal CR Tracking Database through adequately track Company community investment, SharePoint to accurately account for all Bacardi aligned with internal financial reporting systems. community investment. The internal database, with Identify and train community champions to manage easy access use by all Company employees, will track and report on these activities within all markets. This charitable donations and employee engagement system will support benchmark reporting from FY 18 activities. onwards. Update CR Ambassador Program & CR Month toolUpdated CR Ambassador and CR Month guidelines kit in order to engage more Company employees and tool-kit. Through in depth research, mapped all worldwide. locations with Bacardi employees and enlisted help of regional management to identify 57 CR Ambassadors in 40 countries where Bacardi has employees. PCI TARGETS FOR FY18 Roll out Charitable Donations policy globally through trainings, webinars, and other internal communications tools to all employees. 80% of CR Ambassadors to record employee engagement in CR Month activities. 95% of the 40 countries where Bacardi has employees to participate in a CR Month activity. Update financial systems to track all Bacardi philanthropic giving. 38 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Key Highlights Corporate Responsibility (CR) Month Spirit for Life, Caring Together CR Month took place from May June 2016. This annual corporate event is held across Bacardi sites and offices and is an opportunity for employees to support projects in their local communities that are relevant to them. The company gives all employees at least one day to work on an activity together. CR Ambassadors in each region are provided with a toolkit that includes examples and ideas for encouraging local staff to take part in CR Month. Local sites have the freedom, within the CR Month guidelines and toolkit, to choose projects relevant to their staff and communities. • In India, Bacardi provided 50 water tankers for one • Yearly blood drives were held during CR Month in week to the drought hit villages in the Latur District of Bacardi offices in India, the U.S., and Bermuda, with more Maharashtra. than 60 employees donating blood and plasma to local blood banks. • In Russia, in support of the Way Out Foundation, a team of 50 worked with The Pushkin State Museum of Fine Art • For the third year in a row, a team of 16 in Coral to provide art therapy for foundation recipients. The art Gables, Florida, planted 26 oak and mahogany trees in work created was then auctioned off in Bacardi offices, partnership with American Forests. Bacardi has had a with the earnings going back to the Foundation. partnership with American Forests since 2015. Through a cause-marketing campaign with our BACARDĺ® rum • Many offices around the world held donation drives to brand in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, collect clothing, books, toys, household items, and food Virginia and California, we have helped plant almost to give to organizations in their communities. Recipients 100,000 trees across the nation. included: o Brazil: Blankets and socks for local homeless population o China: Heart 2 Heart Foundation o Germany: Hanseatic Help o Singapore: MINDS Social Enterprise o Switzerland: Local food bank in Geneva o Ukraine: Laska Store 39 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT No Commission Through BACARDÍ® NO COMMISSION events, and in collaboration with music producer Swizz Beatz, the Global Chief Creative for Culture for Bacardi, 100% of the sale of artwork from the events go directly to the artist. Since its launch in FY 16 and through events in Miami, New York, and London in FY 17, the movement has put $3 million directly back into artist pockets. Many of the more than 80 artists who have benefitted from NO COMMISSION have also gone on to receive requests for additional privately commissioned work. FY18 events include Shanghai, Berlin and back to where it all started, Miami, for Art Basel. For info on upcoming No Commission events visit: https://nocommission.bacardi.com/ 40 BACARDI LIMITED | 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report
