Sustainability Report 2017 The global leader in door opening solutions The R.W. Kern Center is constructed to the criteria of the Living Building Challenge, the built environment’s most rigorous ­sustainability performance standard. Sustainability Report 2017 Contents About the report Highlights 2017 1 This report, along with additional information available online, describes CEO statement 2 the Group’s sustainability initiatives and performance in 2017, and Business context 3 addresses issues that ASSA ABLOY has identified as the most important to Business model 4 its stakeholders. Strategy 6 As signatory to the UN Global Compact, ASSA ABLOY will submit this Performance in 2017 8 report to the UN Global Compact as its Communication on P ­ rogress Report 2017. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Customer value and sustainable innovation 9 Standards: Core option (see pages 30–31 for GRI ­content index). Supply chain 12 The data presented in this report has been collected over the calendar Manufacturing 15 year and includes all ASSA ABLOY operations. People 20 For further information regarding the Sustainability Report and its Statement from investors 24 reporting principles, see page 32. Governance 25 GRI content index 30 Reporting principles 32 This icon means more information at Auditor’s report 32 assaabloy.com/sustainability Glossary 33 Contacts 33 The Aperio H100 is an example of an ASSA ABLOY product with an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD), which details the products environmental impact over the full product lifecycle.The Aperio H100 packs the power and flexibility of wireless electronic access control into a slim door handle. The H100 fits common European (DIN) and Scandinavian interior doors, and integrates with multiple thirdparty access and security systems. External recognition ASSA ABLOY is included in FTSE4Good, the OMX GES Sustain­ In January 2017, ASSA ABLOY became an official regional ­partner in ability Sweden PI Index, and in the Kempen SNS SRI Universe. the World Green Building Council’s Europe Regional Network. The ASSA ABLOY has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project Network represents a confederation of 24 Green Building Councils, (CDP) since 2007. For 2017, the Group received a score of C in the eight Regional Partners and over 5,000 company members. CDP Climate Change Program, and a score of B in the CDP Water Program. This is ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY in brief WHO ARE WE? ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door 1 76 47,500 opening solutions with sales of SEK 76 bil­ lion and 47,500 employees. The strategies for profitable growth are market presence, product leadership and cost-efficiency. # SEK bn employees WHAT DO WE DO? ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions and offers s­ olutions, primarily in identity and access management, as well as a mechanical and electromechanical locks, digital door locks, security number of other related products and services. doors, entrance automation, hotel security and secure identity FOR WHOM? Institutional and commercial Residential Aftermarket ­customers ASSA ABLOY covers all needs for door opening solutions and service for market. The Group has the largest installed base of products in the institutional and commercial customers, as well as for the consumer world, with a large share of sales in the stable aftermarket. WHERE ARE WE? ASSA ABLOY has leading ­positions in Share of Group sales by region most of Europe, North and South 2017 ­America, Asia and Oceania. EUROPE 38% (38) AFRICA 1% (1) NORTH AMERICA 40% (40) SOUTH AMERICA 3% (3) ASIA 14% (15) OCEANIA 4% (3) Value creation strategy VISION To be the true world leader, the most successful and ­innovative p ­ rovider of total door opening solutions. To lead in innovation and provide well-designed, safe, secure and ­con­venient, solutions that give true added value to our customers. To offer an attractive company to our employees. STRATEGY Strategy and targets 10 % 16–17% Long-term and as an average over annual growth through a combinaoperating margin a business cycle tion of organic and acquired growth Strategy for growth and profitability The Group’s overall strategic direction is to spearhead the trend towards increased security with a product-driven offering centered on the customer. The strategic action plans are focused on three areas: market presence, product leadership and cost-efficiency. Market ­presence Product leadership Cost-­efficiency Increasing growth in the core Continuously developing innovaReducing the cost base through business and expanding into new tive products offering enhanced improved processes, flexible final markets and ­segments. customer value and lower assembly close to the customer ­product costs. and production in low-cost ­countries. Employees Beliefs Sustainability Continuing professional ­development, are based on accountability, diversity and is integrated in all Group ­processes: capabilities and beliefs are the basis for commitment for a focused, results-driven innovation, product development, the Group’s success. company with high business ethics. manufacturing, logistics and sales. Highlights 2017 The Group had a positive development across a majority of the reporting areas. The increased focus on Health and Safety has paid off and led to a decrease of the injury rate by 20 percent. The Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 6,2 percent during 2017 driven by new production technologies and efficiency improvements. The water intensity have decreased by 12 percent during the year. The number of entities covered by ISO 14001 or other certifiable environmental management systems increased from 124 to 131, which means that the system covers 79 percent of employees in the Group’s factories. By the end of 2017 the Group had 276 Environmental Product Declarations verified and published. The Business Partner Code of Conduct roll out continued and is now available in 20 languages. “Sustainability creates business value for ASSA ABLOY and its ­customers.” Johan Molin President and CEO ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Highlights 2017 1 CEO statement Energy efficient door opening solutions 2017 was a good year for ASSA ABLOY, with continued sales and earnings growth. Global demand for products with declared and improved sustainability performance is increasing in demand on the market. Our customers are on a broad basis turning to ­sustainable security solutions, particularly on account of energy savings and the health aspects for the habitants of the building. During the year we became an official regional partner in the World Green Building Council’s Europe Regional Network to promote the development of sustainability and innovation in the building sector. ASSA ABLOY’s five-year sustainability program is making In the beginning of 2016 we launched our second five-year good progress, with many new green products on the sustainability program, which runs until 2020. The program ­market, improved energy and water efficiency, increased use applies to the consumption of materials, water and energy, of environmental management systems (ISO14001) and health and safety, supplier compliance and to the environ­ improved health and safety within the Group. mental impact in the form of emissions and waste. Ambi­ Sustainability is a win-win situation where we con­ tions have been raised in all these areas and the results are tinuously do more with less resources. Focusing on resource showing good progress. ­efficiency and taking responsibility are fully integrated parts The sustainability program is supported by improve­ of ASSA ABLOY’s processes and make us a better and more ments in our reporting systems to ensure faster and more sustainable business. We create more customer value at a frequently updated information. Furthermore, the number lower cost on the basis of our three fundamental strategies of supplier sustainability audits remains at a high level. I’m of increased market presence, product leadership and costpleased to report that third-party auditors have confirmed efficiency. The door opening solution, our specialty, plays an high integrity and quality of these audits. Our efficiency pro­ important role here in making buildings more energy effi­ grams such as the Manufacturing Footprint and VA/VE (value cient. We have a global leading position with our strategies analysis/value engineering) also give significant contribution that drive products and solutions with increased customer to the overall sustainability improvements in terms of value, and reduced resource consumption and environ­ reduced energy consumption and materials. mental impact. The proportion of environmentally rated In 2016 we evaluated our sustainability program in rela­ buildings are growing in all our markets. ASSA ABLOY has a tion to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and con­ complete range of total door opening solutions that are cluded that our work are in line with UN’s SDG initiatives. energy efficient, intelligent and some products even harvest Finally, I wish to thank all our employees and other stake­ the energy they need. holders whose daily commitment makes ASSA ABLOY a A major innovation focus during 2017 has been on energy ­better and more sustainable business. efficiency during use phase, this includes smart software algorithms for activation of functions in the products and Stockholm, 5 February 2018 databases for connected products. We have also further developed tools and processes for the selection of material with reduced environmental impact. The Group has a growing number of Environmental ­Product Declarations, Health Product Declarations and “ASSA ABLOY remains com­ other transparency documents to meet our customers’ need Johan Molin mitted to the principles of for information and to achieve certifications. All product President and CEO the UN Global Compact in lines are covered by Environmental Product Declarations. the areas of human rights, For many years, we have maintained a high innovation rate. labor, the environment and Products launched in the past three years account for anti-corruption. This report 27 percent of sales. Higher sustainability performance from contains our annual com­ a life cycle perspective is a prerequisite for our development munication on progress.” work and is integrated into the product innovation process. 2 CEO statement ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Business context ASSA ABLOY’s business context ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in total door opening solutions. With a global presence comes global responsibility, and part of earning stakeholders’ trust is to manage the material aspects of sustainability throughout ASSA ABLOY’s value chain. Globalization, urbanization, digitization c­ ontributing to SDG 11 on making cities and human settle­ and sustainability ments inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Everywhere As the global economy grows, more and more people are ASSA ABLOY operates, the company supports the intention better off financially and have a greater need for safety and of SDG 9 on resilient infrastructure, inclusive and sustainable security to protect their homes and families. An increasing industrialization and innovation. ASSA ABLOY’s products number of people are moving to cities to find work, with at themselves can reduce customer climate impacts through least 1 billion people expected to make this journey in the innovative solutions, particularly in buildings. Continuous next 10 years. These trends of rising prosperity and urbaniza­ efficiency improvements in production processes reduces tion are leading to greater investments in advanced doors ASSA ABLOY’s climate impact and is linked to SDG 13 on and door opening solutions in homes, workplaces, and urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. ­shopping centers. Taking responsibility in its operations, ASSA ABLOY has a At the same time, growing environmental concerns and strong focus on efficiency, which is related to SDG 12 on resource consumption are placing a focus on energy savings. responsible production, through a focus on resource effi­ Locks, doors, and door-opening solutions have a key role to ciency and waste reduction. The Group’s goal is to reduce play in climate-smart buildings. Digitization also provides water intensity, which supports SDG 6 on clean water and enormous potential for smarter security, connected door sanitation. Integrating sustainability into the sourcing pro­ opening solutions, and management and control of access cesses also means ASSA ABLOY contributes to SDG 8 on and energy consumption. inclusive and sustainable economic growth and decent These trends provide ASSA ABLOY with the conditions for work, where health and safety is a top priority. good underlying, long-term growth. With the Group’s three main strategies of market presence, product leadership and Engaging with stakeholders cost efficiency, ASSA ABLOY has demonstrated its ability to Stakeholder engagement is key to understanding society’s identify focus areas for long-term profitable growth. needs and expectations on ASSA ABLOY and how they can be ­Emerging markets, innovation, and product development met. ASSA ABLOY’s main stakeholder groups are those with a with a focus on electronics, as well as increasing sustain­ high level of influence, and with whom the company inter­ ability performance of ASSA ABLOY products and solutions, acts directly and actively in its day-to-day business – includ­ provide great opportunities. With good cost control and ing customers, investors and shareholders, employees, the ongoing streamlining of its processes, the Group is pro­ ­suppliers, non-governmental organizations and local com­ moting resource efficiency to further enhance profitability munities. while reducing its environmental footprint. As stakeholder relationships differ greatly, so too does ASSA ABLOY’s engagement approach for particular stake­ The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) holder groups. For example, customers are involved in the The UN SDGs provide the global community with a roadmap product development process through the ‘Voice of the for how to combat global challenges related to economic, ­Customer’ customer assessment tools; suppliers are social and environmental sustainability. As the global leader engaged through the sustainability audit program; in door opening solutions, ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability work ­employees through day-to-day operations, training, the is aligned with the objectives of the SDGs – with a focus on employee survey, and the work council; and the investment six SDGs in particular. community through dialogue on sustainability together Urbanization and the role of sustainable cities is an with traditional investor relations activities. important opportunity for ASSA ABLOY. The business is Read more about stakeholder engagement on page 29. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Business context 3 Business model Value creation for all stakeholders Business and value-creation model OVERALL RESOURCES EXTERNAL FACTORS STRATEGY • Growing security needs • Urbanization • Digitization • Automation • Sustainability The Group's overall Financial capital strategic direction is 47,500 employees in over 70 countries to spearhead the trend toward Strong common processes in a decentrali­zed customerincreased safety focused organization and security with a Sustainability is an product-driven offerintegrated part of all ASSA ABLOY’S business processes within ing centered on the the Group MOST IMPORTANT ­customer. ­ACTIVITIES Efficient production and assembly facilities all over Marketing, The strategy is the world sales, advisory, service based on: and support Strategic and cost-effective suppliers Market presence Innovation and Strong brands, patents and product development Product leadership well-diversified product portfolio that meets local Sourcing, manufacturCost-efficiency regulations and standards ing and streamlining of processes Customers all over the world with a large installed base Acquisitions and ­integration STAKEHOLDERS • Customers • Suppliers and partners • Owners and investors • Employees • Society 4 Business model ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESULT VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS OVERALL VALUE CREATION Products, services and Customers: Security support • Security, safety and convenience • Retained market and product leadership Electromechanical products • Sustainable products with environmental and automatic solutions Safety product declaration account for 55 percent of sales Suppliers and partners: Convenience Products launched in the • Technological development past three years account for • Stable partner 28 percent of sales • Earnings and employment Profitable growth Shareholders and investors: • Dividends and capital appreciation Employees: • Safe workplace • Professional development and income • Ethically, stable and long-term business Society: • Growth • Employment • Sustainability • Increased safety and security ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Business model 5 Strategy Strategic direction Our Road to the Future – the Group’s strategic direction, guides ASSA ABLOY toward a world-leading market presence, product leadership, and cost-efficiency, and forms the basis for the company’s sustainability work. As the global leader in door opening solutions, sustainability related to suppliers with a particular focus on high-risk sup­ is becoming increasingly important in identifying and man­ pliers. When incorporating new acquisitions, ASSA ABLOY aging business opportunities and fully exploiting ASSA has established an efficient process that comprehensively ABLOY’s brand portfolio across diverse segments. The com­ reviews sustainability-related issues in order to mitigate the pany’s expansion is facilitated by a strong brand and good risks associated with incorporating new companies and their reputation, which are supported by acting responsibly. supply chains. ASSA ABLOY can reduce production costs by considering Risk mitigation in ASSA ABLOY’s own operations, includes the lifecycle environmental impacts of a product through work to ensure that all factories with significant environmen­ more efficient resource use, and by applying the reducetal impact are ISO 14001 certified. Ongoing activities are reuse-recycle principle. ASSA ABLOY can reduce its environ­ also in place to optimize resource use, including energy, mental impact and increase cost-efficiency by systematically water and waste. In 2017, a new Group-wide Health and exploring ways to reduce production materials, optimize Safety Management System was launched to mitigate opera­ product components, and streamline production as well as tional risks by implementing a set of standardized metrics transport methods. Relevant sustainability aspects are con­ and tools. sidered in business plans, decision-making processes, and The use of the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is also business principles. crucial to mitigate product-related risks through sustainabil­ ity innovation and embedding sustainability into product Sustainability risk management development. The Compass is ensuring that ASSA ABLOY’s ASSA ABLOY’s long-term risk-management strategy covers next generation of products are more sustainable than the sustainability aspects throughout its the value chain. The previous generation, which mitigates risks for both ASSA company’s supplier audit program helps to manage risks ABLOY and its customers. Sustainability in the value chain me rs Inn ov to a us Sustainability is a driver throughout ASSA ABLOY’s C tion value chain. It is an important element in innovation, sourcing, production, employee development, ­applying ASSA ABLOY’s products and solutions, and in Employees M ark et prese maintaining good relations with external stakeholders. Code of Conduct and Governance in g urc n ce So M anu fa c t u ri n g Innovation New products are evaluated from a life cycle Manufacturing The manufacture of the Group’s products Customers ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to supply high-­ perspective. Many recently developed products save should be carried out safely and with the lowest possible quality products that fulfill customer requirements, have a energy as a result of improved insulation and intelligent environmental impact. long life, are manufactured with minimal use of resources, control of various door-opening solutions. Innovation is and have a minimal environmental impact throughout carried out either locally, divisionally, or shared between Market presence ASSA ABLOY is present in more than their life cycle. End users are large institutional and comthe divisions depending on the content and scope. 70 countries, more than two-thirds of which are in North mercial customers (within health care, education, retail, America and Europe. Wherever ASSA ABLOY does business, hospitality, office buildings, and industry), small and Sourcing Every year the Group purchases a considerable it follows the Code of Conduct, respects the laws and regumedium-sized customers (offices, stores), and the residenamount of material, components, and products from about lations governing business ethics in the countries in which tial market (apartments, houses). Examples of distribution 7,500 direct -suppliers around the world at a value of more it operates, and it requires all of its partners to do the same. channels: security systems integrators, locksmiths, security than SEK 25 billion. 53 percent of this value is sourced in installers, building and lock wholesalers, retailers, DIY, low-cost countries. Suppliers in risk areas are evaluated ­hardware and security stores, original equipment manu­ from a sustainability perspective. China is by far the facturers, and door and window manufacturers. ­dominant low-cost country. 6 Strategy ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Turning vision into operation Every quarter, ASSA ABLOY reports on, follows up, and Each Division has identified its greatest sustainability ­evaluates its defined Sustainability KPIs, and a progress impacts, and developed an action plan to mitigate these update is provided to management at different levels in the impacts as part of Group-wide 2020 targets. ASSA ABLOY’s organization. This process has resulted in regularly updated sustainability management has set the following priorities: and more ambitious targets for the majority of the follow-up • Targets for all sustainability KPIs, covering all entities and areas – including some KPIs that are now followed up on a the Group. monthly basis. • Coordinated implementation of environmental manage­ ment systems and systematic follow-up. Strategic partnerships • Conduct 80–100 workshops for value analysis and value ASSA ABLOY is a member of various national Green Building engineering (VA/VE) to develop a product optimization Councils around the world, and became a member of the model that reduces environmental impact. World Green Building Council’s Europe regional network in • Increased capabilities for data analysis and bench­ 2017. Green Building Council partnerships around the world marking. allow ASSA ABLOY to further promote the sustainability • Continued focus on sustainable products. agenda in the built environment. Working together with • Health and safety – implementation of Group approach industry-leading companies, the EU commission and the and start monitoring additional KPIs. World Green Building Council, ASSA ABLOY aims to help all • Improved system support to automatically calculate stakeholders to reduce the environmental footprint of all audited spend in low-cost countries. building types globally. • Sales of the portfolio of sustainable products. Materiality analysis & sustainability priorities In 2017, ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Council reviewed the company’s materiality analysis in accordance with the GRI frame­ work. The review concluded that the materiality analysis is still valid and relevant, and did not require updating. Materiality analysis provides a clear understanding of which aspects are the most important to ASSA ABLOY’s stakeholders and its sustainability work. The materiality analysis led to the development of a list of material priorities related to sustainabil­ ity, which also shape the content of this report. Many of the material priorities have KPIs that are reported on a quarterly basis. Material priorities: • Strengthen anti-corruption measures  Read more on page 26 • Ensure responsible acquisitions  Read more on page 27 • Reduce resource and energy consumption  Read more on page 16 • Reduce emissions with global warming potential, both related to energy consumption and chemicals used in ­industrial processes  Read more on page 16,19 • Increase the portion of renewable energy  Read more on page 16 • Improve water and waste management  Read more on page 17 • Improve health and safety performance  Read more on page 22,23 • Improve sustainability performance within the supply chain  Read more on page 12–14 • Include environmental management systems in all relevant sites  Read more on page 15 • Improve diversity in managerial positions  Read more on page 21 Material opportunities to manage: • Enhance the sustainability performance in ASSA ABLOY’s supply of products and solutions  Read more on page 9–11 • Create products that fulfill customer demands  Read more on page 11 • Create products that customers want to buy  Read more on page 11 • Increase knowledge of future customer demands  Read more on page 11 • Increase efficiency in production  Read more on page 15–19 See page 29 for a complete list of the material topics and a description of the materiality analysis process. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Strategy 7 Performance in 2017 Performance in 2017 and targets for 2020 During the year, the Group saw a positive trend across the reporting areas – ­including strong improvements in the injury rate and the injury lost day rate, and for water and energy efficiency. The Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions decreased as a result of new production technologies and efficiency ­improvements. The current Group 5-year targets will continue until the end and to share information and best practice between entities. of 2020, and the Group reports its sustainability perfor­ The ASSA ABLOY sustainability reporting system, sustainabil­ mance (certain KPIs) every quarter. With 360 (347) report­ ity database and analysis tool are key elements for tracking ing units, it is important to ensure good awareness of the performance, identifying improvement areas and enabling Group’s sustainability priorities throughout the organization the smooth integration of new units. Material KPI Target Change Area 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20171 2015–2020 2015–2017 Environmental KPI Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 ­certificates and other ­certifiable management systems 100 101 111 121 124 131 135 ● +102 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions ­related to energy ­consumption (tons/SEK M)5 12.9 11.9 10.3 9.8 8.6 8.4 –20% ● –14% Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions ­related to chemicals in ­industrial processes (tons/SEK M) 9.4 9.0 10.5 6.7 3.2 2.3 –85% ● –66% Energy intensity (MWh/SEK M)5 36.3 33.8 31.7 28.2 25.0 23.4 –20% ● –17% Water intensity (m3/SEK M)5 148.5 129.6 119.1 100.8 76.9 67.4 –20% ● –33% Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 181.4 130.9 125.7 129.4 124.3 128.0 –20% ● –1% Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 872 814 990 959 876 840 –20% ● –12% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tons) 20.1 14.4 1.7 19.0 16.8 19.5 –85% ● +3% Consumption of other types of organic ­solvents (tons) 933 949 1,033 1,255 1,160 944 –50% ● –25% Portion of renewable energy 8.7% 6.9% 7.8% 9.1% 11.7% 12.0% 20% ● +2.9 p.p. Social KPI Injury rate (number of injuries per million hours worked)5 9.1 7.5 6.4 6.7 5.1 4.1 –55% ● –39% Injury lost day rate (number of lost days related to injuries per million hours worked)5 187.4 168.2 135.7 136.0 89.2 73.9 –64% ● –46% Portion of spend in low-cost countries ­represented by ­sustainability audited suppliers 90%3 89%4 90%4 90%4 93%4 93%4 90%4 ● +3 p.p. Number of sustainability audits of suppliers in ­low-cost countries 7953 8854 8124 8904 8654 9194 +54 Gender equality6 Level 2: 18% 27% 27% 27% 27% 27% +0 p.p. Portion of females in management positions Level 3: 16% 12% 16% 17% 18% 17% –1 p.p. Level 4: 18% 21% 20% 16% 16% 16% 0 p.p. Level 5: 23% 24% 23% 25% 24% 25% +1 p.p. Level2–5: 22% 23% 22% 23% 22% 23% 30% ● +1 p.p. ● KPI is on track to being met by the end of 2020 ● Additional work is required to achieve KPI ● KPI is off track and risks not being met 1 For comparable units in 2017. 4 Countries covered: All low-cost countries. 2 The development is a combination of an increased number of 5 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data certified entities and recently acquired companies with ISO for the years 2012–2013. 14001 certification. 6 The definition of management positions have been revised 3 Countries and territories covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong, d ­ uring 2014. 2012 and 2013 have been restated to be compar­ ­Taiwan, India, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Philippines. able with 2014. 8 Performance in 2017 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Customer value and sustainable innovation Sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOYs customers are rapidly turning to sustainable door opening solutions, ­particularly on account of energy savings and the health aspects for the habitants of the building. Sustainable innovation is essential to meet customer demands and to meet this need, ASSA ABLOY uses its Sustainable Innovation Practices to promote sustainabilityrelated design criteria in product development. Progress in 2017 The growing market for more sustainable and resilient • Continued ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass roll-out products Our Sustainability Compass is used to gauge a variety of The demand for more sustainable and resilient ASSA ABLOY environmental attributes of new products. Additional products, including environmental and materiality transpar­ training was provided to product managers, R&D teams ency, is fueled by the strong growth in Green buildings and and operations employees to make sustainability an more sustainable urban environments around the world. ­integrated part of new product development. This trend is manifested by the growing use of building sus­ • Updated internal list of non-desirable materials tainability certification schemes, such as LEED and BREEAM. ASSA ABLOY’s restricted materials list for new products By 2018, the world is expected to see its number of green was updated by ensuring alignment with the latest global certified buildings double. More and more developments standards, such as European Union Standards Reach and across the world will receive certification such as BREEAM or RoHS. LEED, so 2018 should be a busy year for the globe’s eco• ‘Materials Reference Sheet’ Approved minded builders. The Materials Reference Sheet, to help designers make better environmental choices in new product develop­ Sustainable innovation – a key differentiator ment was approved and will be implemented in 2018. Markets where LEED and BREEAM are being used continue to The updated list helps to favor conscious environmental be markets where sustainable innovation is a key differentia­ choses and strengthen the usability of our Sustainability tor – particularly in terms of objectives for zero energy build­ Compass. ings, chemical use and recyclable solutions. ASSA ABLOY • Continued internal sustainability awareness raising continues to win projects by being compliant with the high­ New material to promote sustainability knowledge and est Green building criteria, for example a LEED and Living understanding throughout the Group included the pub­ Building Challenge. For the Google office in Chicago, ASSA lication of ‘The very green book’ and the ‘Green Team ABLOY was the only compliant supplier in terms of environ­ ­Playbook’. mental transparency. Replacing brass with stainless steel results in increased durability and reduced environmental footprint CHALLENGE: For durability and esthetic reasons, the annual volume transitioned from brass to tion and carbon dioxide emissions in a life cycle many lock components have traditionally been stainless steel and in 2018 work will start to conperspective by more than 28 percent and 9 permade out of brass. However, when using brass, an vert the remaining volume. The use of stainless cent, respectively, while boosting quality and additional surface treatment process (electro­ steel eliminates the need for electroplating. The durability. plating) is required to protect the metal and switch to stainless steel has reduced the use of accomplish a decorative finish. Electroplating materials by 5 percent, cut electricity consumpRESULT: From a customer perspective, the use of involves the use of hazardous substances as well stainless steel shortens the delivery process, as the consumption of a significant amount of allows for more flexibility and ultimately results in energy. It is a complicated production process a more sustainable and durable product. which include long lead times and less flexibility From an ASSA ABLOY perspective, the new for the customers. approach eliminates a production process, reduces resource consumption, shortens lead SOLUTION: For these reasons, ASSA ABLOY times, and results in high-quality deliveries from a H ­ ospitality has substituted brass for stainless steel smaller number of suppliers, in a safer workplace. when producing handles for electronic hotel In summary, it creates a more attractive product locks. Over the past couple of years, ASSA ABLOY that meets all technical requirements while miniHospitality made the same transition for stamped mizing the environmental footprint. parts, with good results. In 2016 and 2017, half of ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Customer value and sustainable innovation 9 Customer value and sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOY drive sales of sustainable products by con­ Environmental & Health Product Declarations tinuously increasing awareness among the Groups Sales and Customers are increasingly assessing the environmental Marketing teams on how to reduce customer environmental impact of building materials, and ASSA ABLOY continuously footprint by promoting ‘Green attributes’ within the com­ works to declare products both Environmental Product pany’s product portfolio. ­Declarations (EPDs) and Health Product Declarations (HPDs) where applicable. In many cases the purchasing decision and ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Compass path to achieve LEEDv4 and other certifications are based on In 2017, the Sustainability Compass was integrated into information from EPDs. By the end of 2017, the Group had a ASSA ABLOY’s product development process. The Compass total of 276 EPDs from all major product groups, represent­ provides a better understanding of sustainability-related ing about a third of the Group’s total sales. design criteria during the development of new products. The The most often information requested by customers goal is to improve the sustainable attributes in ASSA ABLOY involved: level of recycled content, origin of materials, level products. of chemical off-gassing, specific transparency documents The compass includes eight lifecycle dimensions or and product ingredients. focus areas: raw materials, water, virgin material, end-of-life ASSA ABLOY is leading the industry in establishing reusability, recyclability, in-life energy consumption, carbon ­Product Category Rules (PCRs) which have resulted in the footprint, and financial cost. These areas are tracked and credible and uniform comparison of similar products. communicated among internal and external stakeholders Through Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs), product environ­ involved in product innovation and development. mental impact is mapped from raw material extraction to The Sustainability Compass is generated from input from disposal or recycling – to make it easier for customers to ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Products Scorecard. The Com­ compare products that fulfill the same function. pass has also been integrated into ASSA ABLOY standard The next step is to expand the approach to optimize the product design tools, which now include sustainability selection of materials used when developing new products. material data to support the tool. A key challenge for sustainable product innovation is Internet of Things (IoT) identifying the best solution overall. For example, a solution The IoT will play a key role in more sustainable solutions. might have excellent green attributes from one perspective, Devices and systems that are able to talk to each other and but may be less suitable from another perspective. The report their status will provide opportunities to dramatically ­Sustainability Compass helps the design team understand reduce energy consumption through smarter door solu­ which solutions are more sustainable from different per­ tions. For example, ASSA ABLOY door sensors that enable spectives, to help make informed decisions based on holistic low-power standby modes, and can signal to switch off air and long-term sustainability. conditioning and lighting when rooms are not in use, can be a key feature in smart homes and buildings of the future. The Sustainability Compass in action: ­ enhancing product performance The ASSA ABLOY team used the Sustainability Compass to develop a door ASSA ABLOY solution that combined the Trio-E door with Mercury Thermal Break Frames Sustainable Product Scorecard to improve life cycle energy performance and incorporate more sustainable materials. Reference New ­product product CHALLENGE: The U.S. Department of Defense required an energy efficient door that would comply with the energy executive order for Federal facilities Reuse Reusability ref  – designed to reduce energy use. Recycled Content ref  SOLUTION: The Sustainability Compass enabled the team to consider the Recycle product from a life cycle perspective with focus on how the product is Recyclability ref  designed, manufactured, packaged, transported, installed, used, maintained and recycled. This enabled energy efficiency to be optimized and potentially Carbon Footprint ref  harmful substances to be phased out. Energy in use ref  RESULT: The U.S. Department of Defense and third-party agency Green­Circle tests of various solutions at the Marine Corps Systems Command in V ­ irginia, Reduce Water ref  United States, demonstrated that ASSA ABLOY’s Trio-E solution will make annual energy savings of $124–$129 per door, compared with typical solutions Raw Material ref  on the market. The ASSA ABLOY team eliminated freon as a blowing agent for the poly­urethane foam fill during the product development process. Freon is Cost ref  on ASSA ABLOY’s restricted materials list, and the replacement substance has a NO Restricted Material ref NO global warming potential (GWP) 99.9 percent less than current one. 10 Customer value and sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Creating customer value through product innovation ASSA ABLOY’s commitment to promoting sustainability-related design criteria in product development reduces life-cycle costs and creates customer value. The ASSA ABLOY Innovation and Management system, and the Global Sustainable Product Council, are key components of the company’s product innovation work. Product management and innovation The Global Sustainable Product Council SALES BY PRODUCT GROUP The ASSA ABLOY Innovation Management system, which is ASSA ABLOY’s Global Sustainable Product Council leads and based on lean innovation principles, consists of several coordinates activities in all divisions to promote more sus­ ­modules, including product management, Legend customer insight, tainable product development. The council shares best long-term trending, generation planning Legendand optimization ­practice and technology, and provides second opinions and projects. The system ensures that new product concepts are Legend reviews on tools and methods of working. 2017 fully evaluated against customer needs and sustainability Legend SEK 76 billion requirements before moving onto the Legend engineering design phase. Legend Mechanical products, 27% The NEW ASSA ABLOY OH1042S reduces energy Electromechanical products, 27% consumption Security doors, 18% Much heat and air conditioning are lost during door openings. Entrance automation, 28% The speed of the new ASSA ABLOY OH1042S helps to maintain indoor temperature which reduces energy expenses by 12 per­ cent (compared to a regular overhead sectional door). Using less There is a fast growing energy reduces CO2 emissions and helps customers on the path demand for electromechan­ to becoming energy neutral. It also creates a more comfortable ical products and electronic working environment for employees. It comes equipped with a and digital solutions. Since protective light grid that stops the door from closing if there is an 2007 these have sharply obstruction in the opening. The speed of the OH1042S gener­ increased from 33 percent ates a safer and more comfortable workspace for employees by The key that takes locking and to 55 percent of Group sales. reducing the risk of collisions and unwelcome drafts. sustainability aspects to a new level Mechanical products con­ ABLOY PULSE ecosystem takes both locking tinue to increase, but elec­ and sustainability aspects to a totally new tromechnical products are level. The cylinder harvests its power from growing considerably faster. the insertion of the key, without any door cables or batteries. PULSE key can also be re-used for different locking systems which reduces the amount of waste. A mechanical cylinder can easily be replaced by a PULSE cylinder, all you need to change is the core of the lock – the existing cylinder hardware can be reused. Secure Issuance “Wasteless” Lamination The HID Global Secure Issuance team introduced new FARGO® PolyGuard™ LMX Overlaminates for use on the FARGO® DTC5500LMX ID Card Printer and Laminator. These overlaminates are applied to card credentials to create a more durable and longer lasting credential. The unique feature of the new product is the “wasteless” approach. The previous generation overlaminate used a plastic-film carrier and two spools for handling the patches. The new generation product utilizes a “tear-off” method so the carrier film is completely eliminated. This significant design change has resulted in a 92 percent reduction in post-consumer waste for HID customers! “This is an exciting new product for HID Global and our customers. We estimate that over 5 years, this product will have a landfill avoidance of over 50 tons of material,” stated Josh Nippoldt, Director, Product Marketing, Consumables. “It also represents a significant cost reduction that will allow us to be very competitive in the marketplace.” This “wasteless lamination” adds to the already “green” product in the FARGO® DTC5500LMX ID Card Printer and Laminator. This Secure Issuance printer product has also been GreenCircle certified for a 66 percent reduction in energy consumption and has a 10x improvement in heat-up time response. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Customer value and sustainable innovation 11 Supply chain Supply chain management The long-term objective of Group supply chain management is to reduce business risk by further enhancing sustainability performance throughout the value chain. During the year, ASSA ABLOY continued to roll out its Code of Conduct specifically for Business ­Partners and increased the proportion of Group spend reported through its business intelligence system. Progress in 2017 Supply chain risks and challenges • Continued Business Partner Code of Conduct roll out Ensuring that suppliers fulfill ASSA ABLOY’s requirements 70 percent of direct material supplier sites from low-cost involves ongoing risks and challenges. ASSA ABLOY’s lowcountries and 40 percent of all direct material supplier cost country suppliers continue to pose the greatest supply sites were covered by ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct for chain risks – particularly related to human rights and the Business Partners at the end of 2017 – with the objective environment. The company’s pace of acquisitions and to cover over 95 percent of all direct material supplier expansion into emerging markets is another significant sites by 2020. The Code applies to all partners that ­supply chain management challenge and risk area. ­provide products or services to the company, such as Additional challenges and risk management work include ­suppliers, consultants, distributors, agents and other ongoing efforts to examine supplier environmental manage­ ­representatives, and provides a structured approach to ment systems and encouraging suppliers to perform EPDs, integrating new acquisitions. which are increasingly requested by customers. • Increased Business Intelligence System coverage Data collection is becoming increasingly important as PLANTS IN LOW-COST COUNTRIES ASSA ABLOY continues to grow. Consequently, the Group has intensified its efforts in this area and 90 percent (<80 in 2016) of Group spend is now reported through ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence System. Importantly in 2017, newly acquired businesses were more quickly introduced to ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence System through streamlined processes. SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS IN SHARE OF PURCHASES IN LOW-COST COUNTRIES LOW-COST COUNTRIES Number % 1,000 60 50 800 40 600 30 400 20 The share of the Group’s total pur­ 200 chases of raw materials, components 10 In 2017, ASSA ABLOY conducted and finished goods from low-cost 0 919 (865) sustainability audits. 0 countries was 48 percent 2017. 12 13 14 15 16 17 12 13 14 15 16 17 DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLIER SPEND NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS Number Asia, 42.8 % (43.4) 10,000 Europe, 29.9 % (35.0) North America, 23.8% (18.6) 8,000 South America, 2.8 % (2.0) Oceania, 0.6 % (0.9) 6,000 Africa, 0.1 % (0.1) 4,000 Reducing the number of suppliers is important for reducing costs and 2,000 improving quality. Active efforts have reduced the total number of ­suppliers 0 by 28 percent over the past five years. 12 13 14 15 16 17 12 Supply chain ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Supply chain risk management Key audit findings in 2017 ASSA ABLOY manages supply chain risks and challenges by • ASSA ABLOY has around 8,000 direct external material continuing to roll out its Business Partner Code of Conduct suppliers – including 3,200 in low-cost countries and to improve the monitoring of supplier compliance. The Code regarded as higher risk. ensures a consistent approach to supply chain management, • By the end of 2017, 1,230 of the 1,262 low-cost country and helps to bring new suppliers – particularly in low-cost suppliers audited had satisfied the company’s minimum countries – up to the company’s standards. sustainability requirements – equivalent to 93 percent of During the year, the processes to improve supplier perfor­ ASSA ABLOY’s total spend in low-cost countries. During mance and phase out non-compliant ‘new-business hold’ 2017 the Group got 1,324 new suppliers in highand lowsuppliers were enhanced – to support the risk management cost-countries. During the year, 6.6 percent of those new of low-cost country suppliers. Furthermore, as ASSA ABLOY suppliers were audited, the share of new audits in lowcontinues to phase out hazardous substances, the Group cost countries were 12.1 percent. also audits the supplier use of such chemicals. • Two suppliers in low-cost countries were blacklisted and Going forward, the use of third-party auditors will be prevented from doing business with ASSA ABLOY, and 20 increased to complement internal auditing capabilities and put on 'new-business hold' by the Group, meaning they help manage supply chain risks. were not eligible for new business from any ASSA ABLOY entity. Supplier sustainability audit program The supplier sustainability audit program focuses on direct According to ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence audit data, material suppliers in low-cost countries in South and Central the most common reasons for blacklisting suppliers are America, Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, as these are per­ Health and Safety, and environmental issues. Examples of ceived as the greatest risk regions for not complying with Health and Safety issues are unsatisfactory risk documenta­ ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. The Busi­ tion, evacuation drills or information on how to act in emer­ ness Partner Code of Conduct communicates ASSA ABLOY’s gency situations. Inadequate accident statistics, security policies and principles on business ethics, human rights and objectives or machine safety instructions are also common labor standards, health and safety, and the environment to deficiencies. Blacklisted suppliers with environmental issues suppliers. ASSA ABLOY conducts its own supplier audits and may have missing environmental permits, inadequate docu­ due diligence processes to verify compliance. mentation on hazardous waste, or non-existing environ­ The Business Partner Code of Conduct clearly states that mental risk assessments and improvement action plans. ASSA ABLOY does not accept child labor in its own opera­ tions nor at a business partner. Should however a child be Supply chain management governance found working in its supply chain, ASSA ABLOY requires that Group supply chain management is led by the Sustainability the supplier acts in the overall best interest of the child. The Supply Council, which includes representatives from each Business Partner Code of Conduct does not accept any form division. The council sets supplier sustainability targets, of forced or bonded labor, prisoners or illegal workers. In coordinates activities and follows up on progress. Each divi­ addition, the Code reinforces ASSA ABLOY’s support for the sion is responsible for ensuring its suppliers meet ASSA right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, as ABLOY requirements. well as other working conditions, such as contracts, hours and compensation. Reduced pressure saves energy CHALLENGE: Compressors are one of the biggest consumers of electricity in ASSA ABLOY’s Manufacturing plant in Romania. One challenge is to control losses of pressurized air during non-working hours. The other challenge is to reduce the pressure in the system while maintaining required capacity and force where needed. SOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY Romania identified the machines which needed high pressure and installed booster regulators at these machines. The general pressure levelwas reduced by one bar. Each business unit in the factory has a separate main valve for the air system. A routine to switch off the valves after each shift has been established. RESULT: The measures were implemented in January 2017 and have reduced the electricity consumption for the compressors by 30 percent, leading to annual savings of 120 000 kWh. The same actions will be implemented in other production lines d ­ uring 2018. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Supply chain 13 Supply chain Supply chain auditing ASSA ABLOY rates the performance of its suppliers and how they conform to the ­com­pany’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. Supplier audits decisions to identify preferred suppliers and enables ASSA ASSA ABLOY’s audits are designed to assess if suppliers com­ ABLOY to monitor several supply chain KPIs. ply with the company’s Business Partner Code of Conduct in terms of business ethics, human rights and labor standards, Supplier contractual expectations health and safety, and environmental criteria. Some criteria ASSA ABLOY ensures that new suppliers fully understand in the audit checklist are of such significance that they are what is contractually expected of them to help avoid risks known as ‘stoppers’, for example child labor. If a supplier fails associated with business ethics, human rights, workers’ to comply with these important standards, they are auto­ rights, health and safety, and the environment. matically rated as ‘red’ and put on 'new-business hold'. If the supplier fails to improve within an agreed time frame, they are blacklisted and their relationship with ASSA ABLOY ter­ minated. There are many reasons why suppliers are black­ THE ASSA ABLOY BUSINESS PARTNER CODE OF CONDUCT listed, but the main reason is an unwillingness to improve and meet ASSA ABLOY’s demands for improvements. All suppliers are required to comply with the ASSA ABLOY ­Business Partner Code of Conduct, which is based on the The same ASSA ABLOY audit process is always followed, ­following international standards: regardless of supplier or auditor, and includes self-assess­ • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related ments, on-site initial audits and on-site follow up audits to UN Conventions verify that the supplier has implemented the agreed action • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning ­Multinational plan. Enterprises and Social Policy • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • UN Global Compact Business Intelligence Supply Management System • ISO 14001 Divisions submit their supplier audit reports to the Group’s Business Intelligence Supply Management System, which The ASSA ABLOY Business Partners Code of Conduct is available allows ASSA ABLOY to assess and analyze the performance of in 20 languages. its suppliers. The system is used as a basis for procurement AUDIT PROCESS AND TRAFFIC-LIGHT SYSTEM Long term Supplier development and consolidation Mid term Targets and measurements Supplier risk assessment Supplier On-site audits Supplier development self-assessment Scoring principles Grow Traffic-light system Ongoing Sustainability Fix Supplier quality Follow-up audits Exit The traffic-light system ASSA ABLOY uses a traffic-light system to rate individual suppliers on how they conform to Red – the supplier is not approved. The supplier is put on 'new-business hold', and a ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. Suppliers are rated on the following five ­follow-up audit will be conducted within six months. color-coded system: Green – the supplier is approved. A follow-up audit is done after three years to verify Red, yellow, orange and purple statuses can be revised based on evidence of a corrective ­compliance. action plan, well-documented progress, and firm commitment from the supplier. Yellow, orange, and purple – the supplier is approved on the condition that it resolves ­Contracts with suppliers may be terminated in the case of a non-compliance that is not the issues identified in a recent audit within an agreed time frame. Yellow signifies the remedied within an agreed time frame. The contract is automatically terminated if a fewest number of non-conformities and purple the most. A follow-up audit is typically ­supplier is rated ‘red’ for longer than six months. done after one year. 14 Supply chain ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Manufacturing Enhancing environmental performance in operations Improving environmental performance in operations is important for ASSA ABLOY. There is a clear ambition to continuously reduce the environmental impact and enhance performance while expanding the Group. Good progress was made during the year, ­particularly with ongoing projects to further enhance operational efficiency. Progress in 2017 facturing sites have been certified as zero-waste to landfill • Operational efficiency projects by the organization Carbon Trust, and similar initiatives are Progress was made with various ongoing projects being implemented in other parts of the Group. throughout the Group to optimize energy, water and waste. Products • Increased ISO 14001 coverage Risks associated with product impacts and resource con­ A net of 5 entities were ISO 14001 certified during the sumption throughout the life-cycle of the product are also year, which increased the portion of factory employees important to ASSA ABLOY. When developing new products, working in factories with ISO14001 from 76 percent to ASSA ABLOY uses a tool – the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability 79 percent . Compass – to measure several sustainability aspects. Read • Continued phase-out of substances with significant more about how the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is global warming impact used to mitigate impacts on page 10. Recyclability, is one of One production line in the US switched from freon to use eight life-cycle focus areas measured by the Sustainability more environmentally friendly technology. The remaining Compass, which ensures that the end-of-life impacts and production lines using freon are located in China and risks are managed in a structured manner. For example, ASSA United States and will phase out their consumption of ABLOY Americas offer customers the possibility to return freon in 2018 and 2019, respectively. used products for reuse or recycling in order to avoid ­products being sent to landfill. Environmental risks and challenges ASSA ABLOY’s continued growth presents significant oppor­ Environmental priorities tunities for the Group. At the same time, growth in regions ASSA ABLOY’s environmental priorities are to: with greater fossil fuel intensive energy mixes as well as • coordinate the implementation of environmental water scarcity pose potential risks and challenges that must manage­ment systems be managed. Energy consumption, carbon emissions and • enhance data analysis and benchmarking water consumption are ASSA ABLOY’s most significant • improve water and waste management environ­mental impacts. Geographic expansion also requires • reduce energy consumption and increase the proportion that environmental risks and challenges associated with of renewable energy transportation must be managed. • phase out organic solvents Environmental risk management These priorities are all interlinked and closely related to ISO 14001 ­production and resource efficiency. During 2017, notable ASSA ABLOY mitigates environmental risks by certifying all progress has been made on all priorities. factories with significant environmental impact to the ISO ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability reporting system collects 14001 environmental management system. In 2017, all enti­ high quality data to track and analyze the performance of ties were analyzed to establish which need to be ISO 14001 individual entities and divisions. As a decentralized Group – certified, and most of the relevant remaining entities will be with strategic and operational responsibility at divisional certified in 2018 and 2019. A variety of ongoing programs level – this systematic approach and the ability to allocate also work to optimize the use of resources, and mitigate the and oversee the performance of individual entities is essen­ associated risks. The Group has also further developed its tial. The belief at ASSA ABLOY is that benchmarking and best restricted materials list that contains materials and sub­ practice sharing within the Group drive progress. stances that should be avoided in manufacturing processes and products. Environmental compliance Ensuring environmental compliance is essential to maintain Supply chain ASSA ABLOY’s reputation and the company’s license to Environmental performance within the supply chain is ­operate. Non-compliance could result in issues with the essential to ASSA ABLOY’s overall risk management. The Group’s stakeholders – including employees, customers, Group has a comprehensive platform to monitor individual shareholders and the authorities. No significant fines or nonsupplier risks and performance, in particular through audits monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental of low-cost country suppliers. 919 such audits were con­ laws and regulations occurred during 2017. ducted in 2017. Additionally, 15 EMEA Division manu­ ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Manufacturing 15 Manufacturing Energy consumption and carbon emissions Reducing energy consumption is important to ASSA ABLOY in order to be­come Efficiency projects more sustainable, reduce emissions, cost-effective, and ensure compliance with ASSA ABLOY continued to use the energy Kaizen concept in its EMEA division local regulations. For ASSA ABLOY, carbon emissions are related to energy con­ to promote continuous improvements in energy efficiency. In 2017, there sumption and materials used in the Group’s manufacturing processes. were 6 Kaizen workshops. In general the Kaizen workshops generate annual energy savings of 5-8 percent of the total energy consumption. Performance in 2017 Another efficiency initiative is the ongoing manufacturing footprint Operational efficiency activities during the year have: ­program. The program consolidates operations – to ultimately provide • reduced total energy consumption by 3.3 (5.2) percent for comparable ­economies of scale and decrease the company’s footprint. units. • reduced energy consumption by 23,524 MWh for comparable units. Phasing out substances with global warming impact • reduced energy intensity by 6.3 (11.7) percent for comparable units. The total calculated CO2-emissions amounted to 317,401 tons in 2017 of • increased the proportion of energy sourced from renewable resources – which emissions related to direct and indirect energy consumption in the primarily from hydropower, wind and solar – from 11.7 percent in 2016 to Group’s factories and sales companies correspond to 79 percent of the total 12.0 percent in 2017. The target is to increase the ratio to 20 percent by emissions. The remaining part of the calculated CO2-emissions is related to the end of 2020. different types of chemicals. More than 98 percent of these emissions are related to the use of blowing agents in three factories when producing doors Energy efficiency at production units with foam insulation. These production lines will phase out its use in 2018 As much as 50 percent of energy consumption in large manufacturing units and 2019, respectively. Quality issues have delayed the phase out in one of is related to factors independent of production volume. The company has the factories. During 2017, one production line in the US switched from reduced its total energy consumption by implementing various efficiency freon to a more environmentally friendly technology. ASSA ABLOY complies projects including control systems or technologies for heating, ventilation with the Montreal Protocol and with country-specific legislation on ozoneand pressure systems. For example, modern LED-lighting with occupancy depleting substances. sensors has also been introduced in a large number of factories and sales companies. Some initiatives can realize significant savings with minimal Intelligent logistics investment, such as encouraging employees to switch off machines, ASSA ABLOY has been able to reduce the environmental impact of trans­ ­equipment and PCs when they are not in use. portation as the Group has expanded. Locating assembly facilities close to ASSA ABLOY takes steps to streamline and specialize production of cer­ the customer for example has enabled a more flexible and efficient supply tain products with the purpose of increasing efficiency in terms of utilization of goods. of machines, equipment and floor space, as well as allocation of competence. The Group uses a database to assess and identify smart transport solu­ This allows ASSA ABLOY’s production facilities to work at full capacity, while tions with the lowest environmental impact. The database includes suppliers supporting efficient working practices and high standards. When old as well as ASSA ABLOY factories and sales companies, and is connected to machines and processes are replaced due to age, the new machines typically ASSA ABLOY’s central purchasing database. not only require less space but also use energy more efficiently. North South Geographical split of energy and water consumption Africa Asia Europe America America Pacific Energy consumption (%) 0.4% 24.3% 27.0% 41.5% 4.5% 2.3% Water withdrawal (%) 1.1% 64.2% 11.6% 15.3% 6.5% 1.3% Ozone-depleting substances 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ozone-depleting substances in tons of R11 equivalent 1 (tons) 27.0 27.7 30.3 20.8 8.1 4.82 1 R11 equivalence measures ozone-depleting potential. The calculation is based on the consumption of HCFC-141b. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of ozone depleting substances in tons of R11 equivalent amounted to 4.8 tons, including units acquired during the year. 1 For comparable units. Total energy consumption amounted to 729,788 MWh, including units acquired ­during the year. Energy consumption and related CO2 emissions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017¹ 2 The historical numbers have been Direct energy – Scope 1 adjusted with proforma data. – oil (MWh) 34,942 31,179 29,231 23,177 23,911 23,662 3 Total energy use/value added. 4 For comparable units. Total energy – gas (MWh) 192,733 200,393 244,785 251,997 251,402 248,064 use/value added amounted to 24.3 – coal (MWh) 96,533 86,493 77,695 88,226 48,884 30,711 MWh/SEK M, including units – biofuel/biomass (MWh) 3,480 2,201 1,958 3,119 3,706 acquired during the year. 5 For comparable units. Total green­ – Total 324,208 321,545 353,912 365,358 327,316 306,143 house gas emission related to Indirect energy – Scope 2 energy consumption amounted to – electricity (MWh) 334,331 321,824 347,306 358,983 360,618 351,770 267,798 tons, including units acquired during the year. – district heat (MWh) 32,935 47,493 30,877 30,981 28,069 34,567 6 Greenhouse gas emission related to – Total 367,266 369,317 378,183 389,964 388,687 386,337 energy consumption CO2/value added. TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION2 691,475 690,862 732,095 755,322 716,003 692,479 7 For comparable units. Total green­ KPI, Energy intensity3 (MWh/SEK M) 36.3 33.8 31.7 28.2 25.0 23.44 house gas emission related to energy consumption/valued added CO2 emissions related to direct energy consumption – Scope 1 (tons) 81,536 79,674 84,711 87,994 75,033 67,329 amounted to 8.9 tons/SEK M, includ­ CO2 emissions related to indirect energy consumption – Scope 2 (tons) 163,605 163,204 170,460 174,847 171,067 181,966 ing units acquired during the year. 8 Emission factors are based on data Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO2 (tons) 245,141 242,878 255,171 262,841 246,101 249,2955 published by the United Nations KPI, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 6 (tons/SEK M) 12.9 11.9 10.3 9.8 8.6 8.47 Intergovernmental Panel on ­Climate Change (IPCC, 2007). Greenhouse gas emission related to substances in industrial processes 9 For comparable units. Total calcu­ – Calculated CO2-­emissions8 (tons) – Scope 1 178,288 184,552 241,783 179,395 92,385 68,1069 lated CO2-emissions related to – Total CO2 emissions – Scope 1 and 2 423,429 427,430 496,954 442,236 338,486 317,401 ­substances in industrial processes amounted to 68,106 tons, including KPI, Portion of renewable energy 8.7% 6.9% 7.8% 9.1% 11.7% 12.0% units acquired during the year. 16 Manufacturing ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Water and waste management Efforts to reduce water consumption and improve waste In 2017, the Group’s total water withdrawal amounted to management are key parts of reducing ASSA ABLOY’s 1,992,135 m³, of which 85 percent was sent to municipal treat­ environ­mental impact, increasing efficiency and making ment plants after use. Water recirculation in waste­water treat­ financial savings. ASSA ABLOY has improved the tracking ment plants improves efficiency, and in 2017 the total amount and management of both water and waste in recent years. of recycled water equated to 20.0 percent of the total water consumption. All discharges are monitored in accordance with Water management local regulations, and all units that manage chemicals are Water shortage is an increasing concern in many parts of the ­properly licensed and registered with the local authorities. world, and ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to minimize its water Water withdrawal and discharges are being managed in footprint. The company is implementing water recycling accordance with local rules and regulations. In factories with ­systems, and even closed loop systems, to promote water electroplating facilities, the water is used in the different efficiency. ­process baths as well as for cleaning. During 2017, water withdrawal decreased by 9.6 percent In factories producing doors, the water is typically used and water intensity by 12.4 percent as a result of improve­ for cleaning and removal of protective paper. An increasing ment activities and changed production mix. Water is pri­ portion of the used water is being recirculated and used marily consumed through painting, plating and cleaning again after different water purification methods have been processes. Twenty such entities, located mainly in the United applied. A wide range of technologies are being used across States and China, account for more than 70 percent of the the Group, technologies such as filtration, sedimentation, Group’s total water consumption. flocculation, ion exchange and reverse osmosis. Water performance 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Purchased water (1,000 m³) 1,756 1,575 1,600 1,565 1,508 1,371 Water from on-site wells (1,000 m³) 1,070 1,063 1,144 1,127 684 616 Rainwater (1,000 m³) NA 4 1 7 9 5 Surface water (1,000 m³) NA 10 6 3 2 0 Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³)3 2,827 2,652 2,752 2,702 2,203 1,992¹ KPI, Water intensity (m³/SEK M)3 149 130 119 101 77 672 ¹ For comparable units. Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³) was 2,012, including units acquired during the year. ² For comparable units. Total water intensity amounted to 67m³/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 3 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. { { WATER Water withdrawal Water usage Water discharge BALANCE Sanitary and drinking (33.0%) Municipal pretreated (48.7%) Water purchased (68.9%) Total amount Industrial processes (57.5%) Total amount of water of water Cooling (3.9%) Municipal untreated (36.1%) ­withdrawal: ­discharge: 1,992,000 m3 1,992,000 m3 Other (5.6%) Other recipients pretreated (1.0%) Water from local wells (30.9%) Recirculated (20%) Other recipients untreated (14.2%) Rain and surface water (0.2%) Know your flow – Abloy Joensuu Factory saves water CHALLENGE: At the Abloy Joensuu factory, surface SOLUTION: On site, there are 100 water taps in total. treatment is a major factor in water consumption. The The water flow of each tap was measured. The highest process is modern, and it is already built to use the best flows found were over 30 l/minute. The flows were set to available technology. a limit of 6 l/minute on the sink taps, and 12 l/minute for Water efficiency has been improved by technical the kitchen taps and showers. means, e.g. by changing to waterless urinals and by increasing awareness of water efficiency among the RESULT: Abloy Joensuu Factory water consumption personnel. has been reduced by 8 percent, which corresponds to Can any further improvement be achieved? 1,200 cubic meters per annum. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Manufacturing 17 Manufacturing Water discharges are being measured, calculated or esti­ paper, cardboard and plastic for recycling rather than paying mated depending on available sources of information and for the disposal of these materials. requirements. Out of the total reported volume, 44 percent In 2017, the Group’s total waste generated amounted to is measured based on continuous sensor readings, another 84,595 (85 003) tons, and the amount of hazardous waste 33 percent of the volume is calculated for the full reporting increased by 6.2 percent for comparable units. During 2017 period based on a smaller number of readings at certain more waste is categorized as hazardous waste due to imple­ points in time. Around 23 percent of the total volume is mentation of stricter national rules, e.g. in China. Cutting oil ­estimated due to lack of sensors for measurement. is extensively filtered and cleaned, to allow it to be reused in manufacturing, and hazardous waste that cannot be reused Accidental discharges is properly disposed of. The intensity value for non-hazard­ There were no major spill incidents in 2017, and three minor ous waste decreased by 4.1 percent for comparable units. spill incidents were reported. The cases did not cause Several companies have reduced their use of packaging ASSA ABLOY to exceed permitted levels and were managed materials, switched to less harmful packaging materials and in accordance with national legislation. ASSA ABLOY has introduced reusable or recyclable containers. Increasing the improved its relevant internal processes to avoid future use of electronic orders and integrating information flows ­incidents. across systems has reduced the use of printed documents. Various metals are sorted by type to promote recycling, CDP Water and the ambition is to further reduce the amount of metal ASSA ABLOY achieved the B ‘Management’ level on the CDP waste by optimizing the dimensions of raw materials used. Water program in 2017. The Group has a high focus on increasing the portion of non hazardous waste being sent for either recycling or Waste management energy recovery through incineration. The portion of non Waste represents a substantial cost both in terms of the hazardous waste sent to landfill has decreased from 54 per­ resources needed to generate the waste and the cost to cent to 50 percent in 2017. Hazardous waste is being sent to ­handle the waste in a proper way. authorized companies for proper processing, recycling and ASSA ABLOY works to minimize waste from its manu­ disposal. Available data indicate that at least 11 percent of facturing processes and packaging materials. Several com­ the h ­ azardous waste was recycled in 2017. panies within the Group generate revenue from selling Recycled metal 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017¹ Waste metal for recycling (tons) 45,972 49,000 54,025 57,632 56,338 55,981 1 For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 58,316 tons, including units acquired during the year. Hazardous waste 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Metal sludge (tons) 650 537 563 805 873 838 Oil for recycling (tons) 579 295 370 360 421 433 Other types of toxic waste (tons) 2,225 1,846 1,971 2,304 2,266 2511 Total hazardous waste (tons) 3,454 2,678 2,904 3,469 3,560 3,782¹ KPI, Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 181 131 126 129 124 1282 1 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste was 3,785 tons, including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste/value added amounted to 126 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. Non-hazardous waste 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Household incinerated/recycled (tons) 2,442 1,938 1,955 1,766 1,838 1,918 Household deposited (tons) 6,049 7,308 9,531 11,208 11,355 10,724 Paper and cardboard for recycling (tons) 3,766 3,833 4,329 4,803 4,447 4,629 Plastic waste for ­recycling (tons) 584 550 1,051 879 768 783 Wood waste for recycling (tons) NA NA 4,224 4,277 4,426 4,820 Glass for recycling (tons) NA NA NA NA NA 184 Other types of waste (tons) 3,758 3,013 1,774 2,787 2,270 1,774 Total (tons) 16,599 16,642 22,865 25,720 25,105 24,832¹ KPI, Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 872 814 990 959 876 8402 1 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste was 25,471 tons, including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste/value added amounted to 847 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE – DISPOSAL METHOD HAZARDOUS WASTE – DISPOSAL METHOD Incineration, 7% Recycling, 11% Recycling, 43% Waste to be processed and Landfill, 50% disposed by authorized companies, 89% 18 Manufacturing ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental management systems The Group’s objective is for all units with significant environ­ Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and mental impact to have an ISO 14001 certified environmental other certifiable environmental management systems management system. As new companies are acquired, such 2012¹ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 systems are gradually introduced if they are not already in ISO 14001 71 75 85 98 110 115 place. A total of 134 units had environmental management Certifiable systems 29 26 26 23 14 16 systems at the end of the year, covering 79 percent of Total 100 101 111 121 124 131² employees in the Group’s factories. Factory employees cov­ In 2017, the number of entities covered by ISO 14001 ered by environmental environmental management systems increased by 5 to 115, management systems, % N/A N/A N/A 73 76 79 primarily by certifying entities that previously had other cer­ ¹ From 2012, sales companies are included in the reporting of environmental management systems. A part of the change is related to the increased number tifiable environmental management systems. of certified entities as well as closing of units in the restructuring program. 2 The total number of entities covered by ISO 14001 and other certifiable man­ agement systems amounted to 134, including units acquired during the year. Organic solvents and surface treatment ASSA ABLOY has reduced the consumption of chlorinated of organic solvents for comparable units decreased by organic solvents through investments in new cleaning tech­ 19 percent to 945 tons in 2017. Compared to 2015 the nologies, as part of a gradual phase out of such chemicals. ­consumption has been reduced by 25 percent. The target is ASSA ABLOY uses chlorinated organic solvents such as per­ to reduce consumption by 50 percent between 2015 and chloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) for the sur­ 2020, ­primarily by switching to water or powder-based face treatment of metals, including degreasing, cleaning and paint ­applications. pretreatment before plating. Surface treatment is needed to meet high standards of durability, corrosion resistance, qual­ ity and finishing. The Group works systematically toward CONSUMPTION OF CHLORINATED ORGANIC SOLVENTS eliminating the use of PER and TRI, and most entities have already replaced PER and TRI with less harmful alternatives, Tons such as ultrasonic cleaning and wateror steam-based 25 ­processes. 20 The total consumption of chlorinated organic solvents increased by 16 percent during 2017. The majority of the use 15 of chlorinated organic solvents is related to acquisitions in recent years. The target is to reduce the consumption of 10 ­chlorinated organic solvents by 85 percent between 2015 5 and 2020. Consumption in companies The Group also uses other types of organic solvents, 0 acquired 2015–2017 ­primarily for paint. The total consumption of other types 12 13 14 15 16 17 Switch to water-based paint has multiple benefits Oil-based paint was replaced with water-based paint SOLUTION: Shenfei Liyi carried out tests using in door closer manufacturing process and the use of water-based paints to ensure they would work with organic solvents was reduced. This initiative signifithe existing production process. After finding a suitcantly helps minimizing the exhaust gas emission able supplier, Shenfei Liyi replaced oil-based paint and improve the air quality. with water-based paint for its door closer production. The paint uses water as a solvent – which is CHALLENGE: Shenfei Liyi Security Products, a odorless, non-toxic and minimizes harmful effects China-based door closer company, was using oilon people and the environment. based paint, mixed with organic solvents such as thinner, to paint door closers. The fumes emitted RESULT: Shenfei Liyi replaced all oil-based paint from oil-based paint and volatile organic comwith water-based paint by the end of 2016. As a pounds (VOCs) in thinner are harmful. Fumes from result, the annual consumption of organic solvents VOCs also cause ozone pollution. decreased by 60,000 kg in 2017. This initiative helps minimize the environmental footprint, reduces the risk of fire and enhances the health and safety of employees. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Manufacturing 19 People People make it all happen People are the foundation for realizing ASSA ABLOY’s ambition to be a preferred employer by 2020. Transparency, accountability, performance and personal growth, together with an agile and dynamic culture of innovation are crucial to the Group’s role as a preferred employer. In 2017, ASSA ABLOY continued to work with its employeemanaged on a divisional-level. On a Group level, ASSA ABLOY related focus areas of internal Mobility, Diversity, and Health runs two global development programs each year for and Safety toward its ambition to be a preferred employer. selected senior managers: the internally managed MMT Particularly good progress was made on Health and Safety, (Management Training) development program, and the IMD with a new Health and Safety Management System designed ‘Boosting Market Leadership Program’. to support a Group-wide systematic approach to both In 2017, 85 (60) ASSA ABLOY managers participated in ­identify and reduce workplace hazards. one of these two programs. MMT creates an international cross-business network of colleagues to promote best prac­ Opening doors – together tice sharing, and facilitate the integration of new employees ASSA ABLOY includes 47,500 employees in over 70 countries following acquisitions. In addition, the Group also supports – all working together to make the company a true world several short-term initiatives and projects that enable the leader in door opening solutions. ASSA ABLOY’s vision is to exchange of competence among employees and teams. be an attractive employer by providing a workplace culture that gives employees the authority to act, and opportunities Promoting employee ethics for professional development. Every employee should also As the world leader in door opening solutions with a global feel that they are able to make a difference. presence, ASSA ABLOY must manage social and ethical issues ASSA ABLOY strives to attract and retain people with the and observe a high standard of integrity and responsible right competencies and attitude needed for the company’s practices. Ethical employee conduct is central to this, and continued success. Local accountability is also a key part of ethical behavior among employees is promoted through the ASSA ABLOY’s strategy, and the Group has a nurtured culture Group-wide ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. The Code is a key of local ownership and decentralized decision-making. component of the ASSA ABLOY induction program, and all employees are expected to abide by it from day one. The Promoting internal mobility Code of Conduct, which was updated in 2016, underlines ASSA ABLOY strives to promote continuous employee ASSA ABLOY’s commitment to fair employment conditions develop­ment to realize and develop the potential of its and labor rights, and takes a clear stand against human rights internal talent pool. Employees are actively encouraged to abuses, child labor and forced labor of any kind. seek out opportunities to develop their own career. Groupwide job vacancies on the company’s intranet inform Employee Survey employees of career opportunities throughout ASSA ABLOY. ASSA ABLOY conducts a Group-wide Employee Survey every Internal candidates are given priority consideration for second year, with the next one planned for 2018. The survey positions that arise, provided that their qualifications are is an important tool to understand how employees feel comparable with those of external candidates. During 2017, about their workplace, as well as issues such as professional 36 (37) percent of the management positions throughout development, diversity and equality. the Group were filled by internal candidates. In 2017, ASSA ABLOY focused on the two areas that were identified as areas for improvement in the 2016 employee Ongoing professional development survey – professional development for individual employees To continue to meet local business needs, and to lead and and physical working conditions. In response, the company grow through innovation, the majority of ASSA ABLOY’s worked to promote the sharing of good practice, and training and development initiatives are implemented and increased Health and Safety awareness throughout the Group. HID Global hosts Habitat for Humanity Building Day In January HID Global continued its mission of being HID already secures places for thousands of cus­ “HID Global is proud to support the volunteerism a good corporate citizen by sponsoring an Austin tomers through trusted identity solutions every day, and community outreach projects of its employees,” Habitat for Humanity building day. HID’s 60 volunand now they are helping a local charity create a said Michele DeWitt, Vice President Human teers from its Corporate Office in Austin, Texas spent secure place for a family that has been struggling. Resources with HID Global. “We are delighted to the day building the interior and exterior wall panels A well-respected, charitable organization, Austin help Habitat for Humanity not only build a safe home for an Austin Habitat home. This building day gave ­Habitat for Humanity builds new houses for people for a deserving family, but continuing to help them in HID employees the opportunity to work side by side who are caught up in a cycle of poverty. Working their mission of building a strong, stable and self-­ to build panel walls that will be the fundamental together, HID and Austin Habitat for Humanity offer reliant community.” structure of a future home. hope and gain trust in the local community. 20 People ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Diversity and gender balance Promoting a gender balance and diversity strengthens ASSA ABLOY’s competitiveness and performance. Diversity allows ASSA ABLOY to make the most of its available Employee diversity workforce. Promoting a gender balance and diversity As a company working around the world and in various strengthens ASSA ABLOY’s competitiveness and performance, ­cultures, ASSA ABLOY promotes diversity to fully draw on the by drawing on individual expertise and local knowledge. local expertise and dynamics of the individuals available to ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct states that gender, the company. ASSA ABLOY’s extensive experience of working nationality, social or ethnic background, age, religion, physi­ with more diverse teams has shown that they often provide a cal disability, sexual orientation or political opinion must not more holistic approach and better end results – particularly be the basis for discrimination. Key concept is ‘diversity of in terms of product development and business processes. perspective’ which promote an open mindset and broader Consequently, the Group promotes diversity throughout perspectives that can drive creativity and positive change in the organization. For example, 28 nationalities are currently the business. ASSA ABLOY works on all levels to promote represented at the highest management levels. A diverse diversity. workforce that has a good understanding of local markets is also key to ASSA ABLOY’s success, which has been proven by Gender balance the continued geographical expansion of the Group and the With its Code of Conduct and Gender Diversity Policy as a development of new markets. foundation, ASSA ABLOY systematically works with gender balance at all levels throughout the Group. Discrimination is Diversity in recruitment not tolerated, and ASSA ABLOY works proactively against all The recruitment process has an important role to play in forms of discrimination. The target for 2020 is to have 30 achieving greater diversity and a gender balance. Managers percent female managers in senior positions. Progress is are expected to examine their organizations to ensure that measured and the proportion of female managers was 23 diversity is considered in high-profile projects, employee percent at the end of 2017. Group-wide gender diversity development and leadership opportunities. Managers are objectives are set, and the actions taken to achieve them are expected to prioritize the underrepresented gender with managed and implemented at division level. equivalent qualifications, provided that local legislation is One of the challenges facing the Group’s gender balance followed, and to have at least one person from the under­ objectives is the frequency of ASSA ABLOY’s acquisitions, as represented gender among the final candidates. Gender women have been the clear minority in several of the com­ ­balance and diversity are also considered when selecting panies that the Group has acquired in recent years. candidates for the Group’s talent management programs. PEOPLE – FACTS Number of employees by employment contract, Women at different levels of the organization AND FIGURES employment type and gender Percentage of women Number % of total Female, % Level 20121 20131 2014 2015 2016 2017 AVERAGE NUMBER OF Permanent 44,825 94 30 2 – reports to CEO 18 27 27 27 27 27 EMPLOYEES Temporary 2,661 6 35 3 – reports to level 2 16 12 16 17 18 17 Total 47,486 100 30 4 – reports to level 3 18 21 20 16 16 16 Number 5 – reports to level 4 23 24 23 25 24 25 50,000 At the end of 2017, 35 percent of ASSA ABLOY employees Level 2–5 22 23 22 23 22 23 40,000 were covered by collective bargaining. During 2017 the total All employees 35 31 31 31 31 30 employee turnover among permanent employees 1 The definition of management positions was revised in 2014. 2012 and 2013 30,000 amounted to 19.1 percent. The labor turnover is influenced have been recalculated to be comparable with 2014. 20,000 by the ongoing manufacturing footprint restructuring ­activities. Consolidated information regarding employment 10,000 type is not available, however information covering Sweden, ­Germany and the UK, indicate that an average of 94 percent 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 of the employees work full time. Women Men AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION NATIONALITIES – ASSA ABLOY’S MANAGEMENT TEAMS Europe, 17,115, 27% women Europe excl. Sweden, 33% South America, 2,022, 46% women Sweden, 21% Pa North America, 12,521, 27% women North America, 20% So Pacific, 963, 32% women Asia, 16% Africa, 700, 43% women Africa and Middle East, 4% Af Asia, 14,106, 40% women South America, 4% As Pacific, 2% No Asia Sw Africa ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 People 21 Eu Pacific People Safety ASSA ABLOY works toward an injury-free workplace in all its operations. A safety culture is nurtured to promote safe behavior, reduce workplace hazards and reduce risk taking. Progress in 2017 the manual is to identify safety risks, and ASSA ABLOY has • A new Group-wide Health and Safety Management Sys­ developed an identification and risk assessment model that tem based on a set of standardized metrics and tools was can be used in operations. launched to provide consistency throughout the Group. • A new Health and Safety policy manual was published. Safety communications • Progress on safety performance was demonstrated across As part of the Group-wide approach, every ASSA ABLOY the Group. ­facility must create visual safety information for all ­employees. Content should include safety performance ASSA ABLOY Health and Safety Management System metrics, notices of updates, lessons learned or best practice The new Group-wide Health and Safety system was launched sharing, thematic focus topics or results from safety in 2017 for all units. The system includes indicators to iden­ improvement actions. tify hazards and follow up training to prevent injuries, and Units are encouraged to display physical or digital will ultimately help to improve the working environment ­content at facilities – to be a constant reminder of the and strengthen the Group’s safety culture. ­importance of safety. It includes the following tools and processes to promote a more consistent and systematic way of working across the Training – employee Health and Safety awareness Group: Safety training is applicable to all employees, visitors, on-site • Safety communications subcontractors and field service workers, and is mandatory • Training – Employee Health and Safety awareness when new processes or changes to processes are intro­ • Safety metrics and reporting duced. To facilitate training, ASSA ABLOY has developed a • Hazard identification and risk assessment Health and Safety training package with specific modules, an • Incident investigation awareness video, and a presentation with guidance for the implementation and use of company tools. Topic-specific Health and Safety Policy Manual training also meets identified needs, and each unit has a plan The manual has been developed to provide a framework for for safety training needs and records of training completion. implementing, reviewing and promoting a consistent approach to the Health and Safety system throughout the Safety metrics and reporting Group. The manual builds on the Group’s experience and Every unit reports on additional metrics to identify focus best practice, and supports a systematic approach to identi­ areas for improvement and to measure progress. Some fying and reducing workplace hazards. ­indicators serve to measure actual performance, known as The manual also builds on ASSA ABLOY’s belief that safety lagging indicators as they record injuries that have occurred. is a top priority that is everyone’s responsibility, that all inju­ As part of the Group-wide approach, each unit also reports ries are preventable, and that safety incidents are opportuni­ on leading indicators that help identify areas for improve­ ties to learn from and improve on. One key component of ments and preventive actions. Group-wide Health and Safety Management System CHALLENGE: In 2016, ASSA ABLOY was not satisfied with its injury rate, and the to enhance the safety culture – and further drive safety performance throughout Group’s safety programs were fragmented across the organization with a lot of the organization. variability from site to site. This resulted in inconsistent application of the safety values and processes. Plan: • Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment SOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY set up a working group with representatives from • Applicable Legal & each division and constructed the ASSA ABLOY Health & Safety Management Other Requirements ­System using the OHSAS 18000 standard as the basis. This system includes a ­policy manual, hazard identification and improvement worksheet, incident Act: Do: (controls) investigation and response process, and a safety inspection checklist to identify • Performance Management • Roles & Responsibilities common hazards. Reviews • Training & Competence The system was deployed throughout the organization to provide a consistent • Return to Work Health & Safety • Communications • Emergency Preparedness structure to build the Group-wide approach to safety. ASSA ABLOY is now buildand Response ing on the system in place to instill a safety culture among the employees – to promote safe behavior, reduce workplace hazards and reduce risk taking. Check: ­Communication is a key part of this journey and a steady stream of safety content • Metrics & Targets in the form of blogs, videos and stories have been created to make people familiar (lagging and leading) with the increased focus on Health and Safety. • Incident Investigation & Reporting • Internal Audits RESULT: The new system has been deployed to Group’s largest sites and the to • Corrective Actions roll-out of the program continues across the Group. The injury rate has decreased • Safety Improvement by 20 percent between 2016 to 2017. The Group now has a consistent set of tools Activities 22 People ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Hazard identification and risk assessment to prevent reoccurrence, this includes immediate safety ASSA ABLOY employees that face the greatest safety risks are ­containment actions, determination of root cause, and the maintenance and service personnel – particularly when work­ implementation of corrective actions. ing at non-standardized workplaces such as customer sites. The main safety risks faced within the Group have been identi­ Safety culture fied as heavy lifting, traffic accidents, cutting and crushing To prevent accidents and injuries, ASSA ABLOY promotes a injuries. These risks are mitigated through the hazard assess­ ­culture where employees are engaged in proactive safety ment tool, which uses the traditional probability and impact measures and work together to eliminate potential safety assessment methodology to prioritize risk, before driving the risks. To encourage a safety culture, all units have site safety associated improvement actions. representatives, and all units with more than 50 employees The high number of acquisitions is also a challenge for ASSA have their own Health and Safety committees. In 2017 these ABLOY’s safety performance as it can take time for a new unit entities represent 94 percent of all employees in the Group. to be fully integrated into the Group’s safety pro­cedures and A safety culture is nurtured through safety improvement reporting. The scalability of the new Group-wide Health and activities that identify and resolve hazards before they become Management System helps to mitigate these risks by providing safety incidents. Safety improvements are tracked to ensure a framework to quickly incorporate acquisitions and ensure a each site has a high level of engagement in the program and cohesive approach across the Group. that the identified ideas are put into action. Ultimately, ASSA ABLOY strives for a forward-looking safety Incident investigation culture that embeds safety into everyday workplace behavior ASSA ABLOY has established a standardized process for the habits through greater employee safety awareness and by timely investigation and analysis of safety incidents in order adopting best practices. INJURIES LOST DAYS PER INJURY1 200 10 1 Injury lost day rate in lost days per 25 1 Lost days per injury calculated as million hours worked. total number of lost days in relation 2 Injury rate in injuries per million to total number of injuries.. 20 150 8 hours worked. 2 For comparable units. The total lost 3 The historical numbers have been days per injury was 18.1 including 15 units acquired during the year. adjusted with proforma data. 100 6 4 For comparable units. The total injury lost day rate was 75, includ­ 10 ing units acquired during the year. 50 4 From 2012, the reporting of inju­ 5 ries and days lost due to injuries includes data from ASSA ABLOY 0 2 entities 0 123 13 144 15 16 17 123 performing 13 144 15 service 16 17or 12 13 14 15 16 172 installation. Total injury rate was 4.1 including units acquired during Injury lost day rate¹ the year. Lost days per injury¹ Injury rate² Ceco Door Achieves Impressive Safety Milestone Ceco Door Products in Tennessee, US celebrated a One of the keys to success, surely, is that the significant safety milestone of several millions of ­executive team starts weekly calls with the safety hours without a lost time injury. scorecard, reinforcing how vital and valuable safety is to the company’s culture. CHALLENGE: While this is a noteworthy accomEveryone is held accountable for following safety plishment for employees of any company, it is espeguidelines, which is underscored by frequent walkcially so within a vertically integrated, metal fabricathroughs, and consistent improvement comes from tion facility like Ceco Door Products. Add to that the examining any incidents and determining how they daily challenge of handling weighty and bulky doors can be prevented in the future. and door frame parts, and it’s clear that safety has to Finally, the expectation is set from the top down be a conscious daily priority so the prevention of that the plant is a “no excuses” environment: Safety injuries is an ongoing challenge. always comes first, even when it’s inconvenient. SOLUTION: The team believes that managing the RESULT: As of end of 2017 they have 7,922,033 process yields the results. While it’s hard to pinpoint man hours without a loss time accident – and still exactly the factors contributing to this impressive counting. number, it’s a team effort, spearheaded by a number Lifting equipment adjusts working height to a comfortable level to of dedicated employees who each have a specialty. ­prevent the operator from having to bend over. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 People 23 Statement from investors Investor statements Anette Andersson “I welcome ASSA ABLOY’s renewed focus on Health and Safety” “I appreciate the way ASSA ABLOY collaborates with clients to solve sustainability challenges together – such as using magnets instead of electricity to lock doors, and smart sensors to only open doors when people actually want to enter. They are also innovative in their production, for example by using ultrasonic cleaning instead of toxic cleaning substances, and working to develop closed production processes to ­significantly reduce water usage. I welcome ASSA ABLOY’s renewed focus on Health and Safety, which is already evident in their improved safety performance, and their efforts to secure more renewable energy supply as part of their climate work. Portfolio Manager & ESG In terms of challenges ahead, I know that the company is working on gender equality, but more needs Investment Specialist, to be done at management levels. As tax transparency is a hot topic, I would also like to see a public tax Investment Management, policy. SEB Wealth Management Finally, I appreciate that we investors get invited to annual ASSA ABLOY sustainability discussions. This isn’t a very common practice, and it clearly indicates that the company’s management and the CEO take sustainability seriously.” Ulrika Danielson “We perceive sustainability to be an obvious and integral part of ASSA ABLOYs products and offerings” “ASSA ABLOY has a long history of working structurally and strategically with sustainability. We perceive sustainability to be an obvious and integral part of their products and offerings. For many years, ASSA ABLOY has also invited investors to dialogue sessions where they present their sustainability work. These meetings are appreciated and clearly demonstrate the commitment to sustainability throughout the organization – from the CEO and down through the organization. It is positive that ASSA ABLOY audits its suppliers to ensure they comply with their environmental and social requirements. Their focus on Health and Safety has contributed to a significantly lower proportion of accidents, despite a number of recent acquisitions. Head of Communications and To us, the integration of acquired companies and ensuring compliance with the ASSA ABLOY guidelines HR/Coordinator of Corporate are of particular interest. Acquisitions also pose a challenge when it comes to the company’s gender Governance, Andra AP-fonden/ ­balance objectives. Second Swedish National Going forward, I would like to see a further development of the reporting around the UN Sustainability Pension Fund Development Goals and how the company is contributing to individual goals.” Nina Bönnelyche “The Sustainability Compass remains a great asset for the company” “ASSA ABLOY’s 2020 sustainability objectives are more ambitious than its previous goals, which shows that the company continues to challenge itself in terms of sustainability. The Sustainability Compass remains a great asset for the company – that integrates sustainability into the business and guides more sustainable product development. The tool in turn helps to realize energy savings and more sustainable solutions for its customers. ASSA ABLOY has improved the system to conduct audits in its supply chain against its Code of Conduct – including environmental and human rights compliance, and third-party verification. An increasing ­proportion of its suppliers are audited, which is very positive and we hope that this trend continues. Corporate Analyst, Responsible Gender balance is a key challenge for ASSA ABLOY, with women accounting for only 25% of top Investment, Folksam ­managers, and more needs to be done to attract women to the industry. Tax transparency is also an area for improvement, perhaps by making their tax policy public to gain greater legitimacy. ASSA ABLOY has made great progress when it comes to sustainability. We look forward to following how the company will further integrate sustainability into its business in the future.” 24 Statement from investors ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Governance Sustainability governance ASSA ABLOY AB is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange, Large Cap. The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, together with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct form the basis for the Group’s actions, behavior and external communications. 28 Frameworks and responsibilities New Code of Conduct e-learning ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact During 2017, ASSA ABLOY developed the Code of Conduct since 2008. Its affiliation with the UN Global Compact means e-learning module and a digital quiz to promote dialogue that the Group supports and commits to actively promoting and raise awareness of the Code of Conduct among employ­ and respecting the 10 principles on human rights, labor stan­ ees and what it expects of them. The e-learning will reach all The Code of Conduct is dards, the environment, and anti-corruption in the Group’s employees in 2018. available in 28 languages. operations and in dealings with external stakeholders. As a signatory, ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue a Communica­ The Compliance Committee tion on Progress report annually to the UN Global Compact. ASSA ABLOY has a Code of Conduct Compliance Committee, This obligation is fulfilled by issuing this Sustainability Report which is chaired by the Group Senior Vice President of to the UN Global Compact. Human Resources. Its members include the Group Head of The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for Environmental Sustainability, Group Head of Compliance identifying and managing existing and emerging risks. The and two employee representatives, who are also members of Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk manage­ the ASSA ABLOY Board of Directors. Among other things, the ment relating to the Group’s strategy, the Code of Conduct, members of the committee receives information from and other sustainability policies. The divisions have the oper­ ­whistle-blowers and the committee ensures that such ational responsibility as well as the responsibility to inte­ ­matters are dealt with appropriately and followed through. grate the sustainability principles into their daily operations. The committee meets twice a year. Code of Conduct Growing with care 38 The Group-wide Code of Conduct covers business ethics, As ASSA ABLOY grows organically and through acquisitions, communication, human rights and labor standards, the the relocation of production is part of creating a more effi­ environ­ment, and Health and Safety. It provides the frame­ cient manufacturing structure. Expanding the business in work for ASSA ABLOY’s daily operations and dealings with new regions, often in emerging markets, will remain an external stakeholders. important part of the company’s strategy for the foreseeable The Code of Conduct is based on the following: future. It is important to understand the business context The Code of Conduct • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights when moving into new regions and integrating new units. At includes a mechanism for and associated UN conventions the same time, the Group works to ensure that the business whistle-blowing. In 2017, • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning is run in line with ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct and beliefs. the Group handled 38 (46) ­Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy The ability to grow responsibly promotes ASSA ABLOY’s cases reported through the • United Nations Global Compact ­performance. whistle-blowing function. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • ISO 14001 environmental management standard Whistle-blowing The Code of Conduct includes a whistle-blowing function. The full version of the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is The objective is for cases to be resolved on a local level, ­available in English, French, German, Spanish, and Chinese, ­however in 2017, 38 (46) cases were reported through the while a short version is available in 28 languages at: ­whistle-blowing function and dealt with on a Group-level. www.assaabloy.com/code. The full version is given to all The range of cases demonstrates that the mechanism is used managers, relevant employees, and union representatives. throughout the organization. The short version is communicated and made available to all In 2017, the process for whistle-blowing was streamlined employees. New employees are required to read the Code of and made more efficient. The process has also been Conduct within three months of joining the Group, and enhanced, and now gathers more detailed information on agree to abide by it and any related policies. each reported case. ASSA ABLOY respects the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates. The Code of Conduct does Compliance reviews not replace legislation and if the two differ, legislation takes To maintain ASSA ABLOY’s standards throughout the organi­ precedence. Although if the Code of Conduct sets a higher zation, internal Code of Conduct compliance reviews are standard than the existing legislation, the reverse applies. complemented with third-party audits. These audits focus on working conditions, such as human rights, labor rights, Business Partner Code of Conduct Health and Safety, and compliance. ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct is based on The Group carries out one-two audits every year with a the pillars and frameworks of the Code of Conduct, but is focus on the Group’s manufacturing sites in Africa, Asia, adapted to external partners. The Code includes principles ­Eastern Europe and South America. The units are given that apply globally to suppliers, business partners and other ­specific improvement actions to fulfil, based on the audit stakeholders such as third parties acting on behalf of results. In 2017, one external audit was performed on ASSA ASSA ABLOY. The Business Partner Code of Conduct is ABLOY’s operations in Romania. ­available in 20 languages. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Governance 25 Governance Anti-bribery and other compliance programs ASSA ABLOY has specific compliance programs and policies within the areas of anti-­ bribery, antitrust, export control and data protection, which supplement and build on the Code of Conduct. In 2017, ASSA ABLOY introduced its new Data Protection ­Compliance Program, enhanced its Code of Conduct whistle-blowing process, and strengthened its due diligence processes. Progress in 2017 Anti-bribery Policy • Data Protection Compliance Program launched Corruption increases inequality, the cost of doing business The new global program is based on both the EU General and reduces efficiency. ASSA ABLOY works actively to pre­ Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the principles set vent corruption in its business. The anti-bribery compliance out in the OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy program adheres to the strictest international standards to and Transborder Flows of Personal Data. Following its prevent, detect and respond to potential corruption – and it launch in April 2017, ASSA ABLOY worked to implement is constantly evaluated. Risk assessments, employee training, its Data Protection Compliance Program throughout the third-party compliance, and reporting are essential com­ company through dialogue with internal stakeholders. ponents of the anti-bribery compliance program. The anti• Code of Conduct whistle-blowing process enhanced bribery policy is available on the external Group website, The process was streamlined and made more compre­ together with the Code of Conduct and the Business Partner hensive. Read more about the whistle-blowing process in Code of Conduct. All ASSA ABLOY employees have received the Sustainability Governance section on page 25. information on the anti-bribery policy. • Further strengthening of divisional due diligence ASSA ABLOY conducts business worldwide and con­ ­processes sequently operates in some countries where corruption During the year, ASSA ABLOY further strengthened its risks are perceived to be high, according to the Corruption processes to evaluate and screen if third parties can make Perceptions Index published by Transparency International. sales on ASSA ABLOY’s behalf. Such processes identify A large part of ASSA ABLOY’s sales is handled through third where the corruption risk exposure is perceived to be parties, such as distributors, and the majority of the Group’s high, and allows action to be prioritized. anti-corruption efforts are used to ensure that such third • Continued roll out of the Business Partner parties acting on behalf of ASSA ABLOY comply with Code of Conduct ASSA ABLOY’s standards. This is particularly the case in mar­ 22 The Business Partner Code of Conduct clearly defines kets that are perceived to have a higher level of corruption ASSA ABLOY’s expectations on its Business Partners. risk exposure, such as emerging markets or countries with a low score on Transparency International’s latest Corruption Compliance overview Perceptions Index. All compliance-related programs, policies and requirements are set by the Group, which also provides supporting tools. Compliance training The anti-bribery e-learning Each division is responsible for implementing the programs. ASSA ABLOY’s training guidelines stipulate that all new program is global and Employees are expected to report any concerns to either employees should receive training on the relevant com­ available in 22 languages. their nearest manager, the divisional compliance officer, pliance programs within three months, and receive further Group Legal, or through the Code of Conduct whistle-­ training every three years thereafter. Training is conducted blowing function. In 2017, special focus has been made on either through e-learning programs (available for antitrust employees in regions where the risk of corruption is per­ and anti-bribery), webinars or face-to-face. ceived to be higher, such as emerging markets or countries The anti-bribery e-learning program is global and avail­ with a low score on Transparency International’s latest able in 22 languages. The target group for the anti-bribery ­Corruption Perception Index. training includes managers as well as sales, purchasing and The implementation of the programs is reviewed through sourcing personnel. 83 the Group’s established process for internal control in all At the end of 2017, 83 percent (79) of relevant employ­ operating companies and internal audits. In order to ensure ees had participated in anti-bribery training, 81 percent (80) compliance with GDPR when it comes into force, special percent in the antitrust e-learning, and 90 percent (95) had focus has been given to following up the implementation of participated in export control training. the Data Protection Compliance Program. At year-end 2017, ASSA ABLOY also has a mergers and acquisitions com­ Continued work in 2018 83 percent of relevant pliance process as part of the acquisition process. The aim of Third-party due diligence processes will be further strength­ employees had partici­ this process is to put any potential issues on the agenda from ened in 2018 by applying a refined model for risk assessment pated in anti-bribery the outset of the acquisition to be able to determine the at a divisional level. Special focus will also be given to imple­ training. level of risk at an early stage, as well as to mitigate specific ment the Data Protection Compliance Program to ensure areas of concern. Read more in the Acquisitions section on that ASSA ABLOY is sufficiently ready for the GDPR when it page 27. comes into force in May 2018. The implementation and further development of the compliance programs are ongoing, and ASSA ABLOY is ­working continuously to evaluate and further develop their effectiveness. 26 Governance ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Acquisitions Acquisitions are important to ASSA ABLOY’s growth strategy. They strengthen the Group’s offerings, accelerate innovation, and take the Group into new geographic ­markets – enabling ASSA ABLOY to meet customer demands more rapidly. 150 Progress in 2017 As part of the acquisition process, ASSA ABLOY is obliged in • New acquisitions certain cases to file for antitrust approval. During 2017, the 16 acquisitions were consolidated during the year. company did this in a number of cases when it was required. 20 percent of the acquisitions were in emerging markets. The successful integration of acquired companies nor­ • Finance Integration guidelines mally take between 6 and 12 months – depending on the ASSA ABLOY has made some Group-level Finance Integration guidelines were intro­ type of acquisition and its specific circumstances. 150 acquisitions in the last duced as an additional check in the first 100 days of a new 10 years. acquisition. The guidelines are an example of how ASSA Risk management ABLOY continuously improves the acquisition process. ASSA ABLOY has identified the main areas of potential risks related to acquisitions, all of which are covered by Legal and With more than 170 acquisitions in the last 10 years, Operational due diligence. ASSA ABLOY’s Group-wide sus­ ASSA ABLOY has established an efficient process for bringing tainability management program – including targets, seminew companies into the Group. This includes reviewing annual reporting, supply chain management, and Groupsustain­ability-related issues, sharing the company’s Code of wide policies – manages risk in the following areas: Conduct and way of doing business with prospective com­ • Significant environmental pollution (soil, ground water, panies, and taking steps to help newly acquired companies and air) raise their standards where necessary. • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous substances Due to the decentralized nature of the ASSA ABLOY • Supplier base in low-cost countries Group, divisions are responsible for the entire merger and • Poor business ethics, including possible Code of Conduct acquisition process, and are resourced accordingly. The breaches (labor rights, human rights, corruption, etc.) Group provides an overview of company-wide activities, and • Proper permissions supports divisions with common compliance guidelines. • Safety ASSA ABLOY prefers to acquire sound companies that share the Group’s values and business practices, and the In addition, dedicated action plans are set up when required. ­successful integration of acquired companies is an essential part of mitigating risks. Compliance process ASSA ABLOY’s mergers and acquisitions (M&A) compliance The acquisition process process aims to ensure that companies – particularly in The Group-wide acquisition process is divided into four emerging markets – comply with the company’s standards. phases: strategy, assessment, implementation, and integra­ The M&A process includes a practical toolkit that provides tion. Each phase has its own predefined activities, decision ASSA ABLOY employees involved in the acquisition process processes and documentation requirements. Within these with guidance. It covers the following areas: phases there are three main due diligence processes that • Anti-corruption help ASSA ABLOY decide whether to pursue the acquisition, • Antitrust and what action would need to be taken if the acquisition is • Export control completed: • Environmental, health and safety • Financial and tax • Tax • Legal – including employment contracts, payment ­processes, wages and insurance The M&A process aims to put all potential issues on the • Operational – including the use of chemicals and agenda from the outset of the acquisition to enable an accu­ ­compliance rate risk appreciation at an early stage. This allows the due diligence process to be tailored to specific areas of concern. An excessive number of red flags in the Legal and Opera­ Post-completion, a thorough program for addressing any tional due diligence processes related to sustainability may identified compliance issues, as well as any Code of Conduct mean that the acquisition process is abandoned indefinitely. related aspects, such as human rights, are to be put in place The supplier base of the potential company is also investi­ and implemented. The post-completion review is particu­ gated – including two supplier categories: large suppliers larly important if insufficient information has been obtained and critical components. This mapping involves Group during the acquisition phase. The M&A compliance guide­ ­Supply Management and aims to identify risks and potential lines also offer guidance on this process. synergies. Post-acquisition, associated suppliers are added to the Group’s supplier database, which is continuously assessed and audited. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Governance 27 Governance Organizational responsibility The divisions have operational responsibility for their sustainability work. The work is over­seen by the Executive Team and ultimately by the Board of Directors. The Group’s ­strategy, sustainability objectives and the Code of Conduct form the foundation for the sustainability work. Managing the sustainability agenda delegation of responsibility, implementation and follow up is In the ASSA ABLOY Group, sustainability issues are managed clearly communicated and the accountability of each person in a systematic and consistent way, mostly at divisional level. and function with a particular responsibility is defined. Managers for environmental sustainability, supply, and ­innovation at the Group and divisional levels ensure that ASSA ABLOY’s councils the necessary policies, processes and tools for managing The Group Sustainability Council comprises of representa­ environ­mental issues exist and are implemented. The tives from Operations, Research and Development and Human Resources (HR) functions at the Group and divisional Human Resources, including the person responsible for levels have the corresponding responsibility for managing sustain­ability in each division. The council meets three to social and ethical matters. four times each year to discuss various sustainability matters To drive the agenda, five functional sustainability councils related to innovation and production, to define action plans have been defined. The Group intranet includes two sections and set targets. Each participant in the council is responsible that focus on sustainability – one offering general information for reporting back to their organization and for driving for all employees, while the other supports sustainability man­ implementation. agers and includes tools, best practices, and access to the In addition to the Sustainability Council, there are coun­ sustain­ability reporting database. Statistical reports and cils for Innovation, Sourcing, Operations, Human Resources, scorecards enable all ASSA ABLOY companies to monitor their and Health and Safety, whose members include representa­ performance and to benchmark themselves against the tives from the Group and all divisions, which manage sus­ Group. tainability issues related to their business. Responsibilities Monitoring progress Each division is responsible for managing the Group’s ASSA ABLOY has a Group-wide database for sustainability sustain­ability agenda, identifying and addressing risks and indicator reporting, which enables data analysis. The data­ opportunities in the context of their business, as well as base includes best practices and tools as well as details of ­governing the Code of Conduct and related policies. measures taken by the various companies to achieve the Divisional work and progress is overseen by the Executive Group’s sustainability targets. All companies and divisions in Team, and each factory or business unit has the operational the Group can access information from the database to com­ responsibility within each division. Each division is also pare progress and trends. In 2017, 360 (347) factories, sales responsible for ensuring that current and new suppliers units and offices reported their data in the database. understand and comply with ASSA ABLOY’s requirements. The review process is managed by the divisions on a quar­ At Group level, performance is monitored via the sustain­ terly basis – typically with detailed follow up discussions with ability reporting process, which includes each company’s the relevant sub-divisions. Overall Group performance is reporting of material environmental risks and actions to monitored by the Sustainability Council, which tracks the ­mitigate them. Divisional board meetings address risks, com­ performance of individual KPIs, and the results are presented pliance, performance and other sustainability matters. The at Group Management meetings. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional Boards EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Entrance Global Technologies Systems Sustainability councils reporting process Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sustainable innovation Supply chain integrity Environmental Social and ethical Health and safety 28 Governance ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis Engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders helps ASSA ABLOY to be aware of societal expectations on the company. Stakeholder engagement also provides the basis for the materiality analysis, which provides a clear understanding of which aspects are the most important to ASSA ABLOY’s stakeholders and its sustainability work. Stakeholder engagement works to improve employee satisfaction across a broad ASSA ABLOY’s main stakeholder groups are those with a high range of areas, and progress is measured in the employee level of influence and interaction, and with whom the Group survey. interacts directly and actively in its day-to-day business: Supplier and business partner issues are managed through Customers are becoming increasingly interested in trans­ supply chain audits and Business Partner Code of Conduct parency and products with improved sustainability perfor­ compliance. mance. Environmental and social supply chain transparency typically relates to where and how ASSA ABLOY’s products Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local are manufactured, along with details of the materials con­ ­communities are engaged through local dialogue when tained in products, and is addressed by the company’s work ­relevant. with its supply chain. Customer interest in sustainable prod­ ucts has emerged from a growing importance of sustainable Materiality analysis cities, buildings and communities. One major focus area is ASSA ABLOY conducted its first materiality analysis in 2013 energy efficiency and how ASSA ABLOY’s products can make in accordance with the GRI framework. The analysis was a contribution. ASSA ABLOY responds to this interest by reviewed in 2015, and again in 2017. During the year, ASSA ASSA ABLOY’s material engaging and collaborating with customers in product inno­ ABLOY’s Sustainability Council reviewed the company’s ­sustainability topics • Anti-corruption vation and at relevant conferences and events, as well as materiality analysis in accordance with GRI Standards. The • Acquisitions* through its membership of green building organizations and review concluded that the materiality analysis is still valid • Diversity initiatives. and relevant, and did not require updating. The materiality • Emissions analysis forms the basis for defining the Sustainability Report • Energy Investors and shareholders have become increasingly inter­ content. • Environmental compliance ested in sustainability issues in recent years. ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY’s materiality analysis process consists of a • Environmental management ­systems engages with investors and shareholders in both one-to-one three-to five-year cycle, which involves a large internal work­ • Occupational health and meetings and roundtable discussions on a variety of issues. shop in the first year and stakeholder involvement later in safety These include supply chain management, Code of Conduct the process. The materiality process is reviewed internally • Organic solvents compliance, M&A due diligence, phase out of hazardous when needed by the head of Environmental Sustainability, • Procurement practices* materials, energy consumption and CO2 emissions, health the head of Human Resources, the Product Innovation Pro­ • Sustainable innovation/­ and safety, market demand and profitability for sustainable cess director, and the Group Supply Management director. sustainable products* • Waste products, and solutions and type of whistle blowing cases. • Water Employees are engaged through annual appraisals, training * The aspect is material also and development initiatives, staff meetings, the internal ­outside the organization. magazine in 17 languages, and the intranet. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY COUNCILS SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL AND ETHICAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ASSA ABLOY Zeljka Svensson, Stefan Calner, Stefan Tisell, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Group Director Global Innovation Director Supply Management Head of Environmental SVP Human Resources SVP Human Resources Management Sustainability EMEA David Moser, Mauro Felice, Antonina Realmuto, Allan Cooper Mauro Felice, VP Product Innovation VP Operations Sustainability Manager Director Human Resources VP Operations Americas Amy Vigneux, Jody Paviglionite, Richard Hafersat, Jack Dwyer, Kimberly Cummins, Director of Sustainable VP Supply Management Director of Strategic Initiatives VP Human Resources and Human Resources Manager Building Solutions Administration ASSA ABLOY Berlin Asia Pacific Allen Wong, Michael Deng, Michael Deng, Dolores Shore, Dolores Shore, VP Innovation Sustainability Manager Sustainability Manager Global Director Human Global Director Human Resources Resources Entrance Systems Mats Nordén, Dan Gren, Tobias Svensson, Jessica Jonasson, Tobias Svensson, CTO Entrance Systems VP Operations Head of Process Excellence VP Human Resources Head of Process Excellence HID Global Jeff Sasse, Joshua Freeman, Jeff Sasse, Michele DeWitt, Jeff Sasse, Director Global Sustainability VP Quality and Process Director Global Sustainability VP Human Resources Director Global Sustainability Excellence Hospitality Louise Wolfshagen Julie Zhu, Louise Wolfshagen Christophe Sut, Julie Zhu, Global Quality Assurance VP Operations Global Quality Assurance Executive Vice President and VP Operations Manager Manager Head of ASSA ABLOY Hospitality Policies Innovation Policy Business Partner Code of Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Policy for Intellectual Property Conduct Environmental Sustainability HR Policies and Guidelines Health and Safety Policy Manual Supply Management Policy Policy Gender Diversity Policy Tax Policy Anti-bribery Policy ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Governance 29 Reporting GRI content index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The table below indicates where information can be found: Sustainability Report (unless otherwise stated) or Annual Report (AR). General Disclosures Page Comment/Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102 1 Name of the organization 25 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Flip cover inside, 4–5, 11 102-3 Location of headquarters Backcover 102-4 Location of operations 6, AR 87 102-5 Ownership and legal form 25, AR 104–105 102-6 Markets served Flip cover inside, 6, AR 10–11, 13, 74 102-7 Scale of the organization Flip cover inside, 21, AR 59 – 60, 74, 79, 87 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 21, 32 102-9 Supply chain 6, 12–13 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 39, 84 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 15 102-12 External initiatives 3, 25 102-13 Membership of associations 7 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Flip cover inside, 12, 25 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 25, 28 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 21 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 29 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 3, 29 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24, 29 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 32, AR 79 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 29, 32 102-47 List of material topics 29 102-48 Restatements of information 32 102-49 Changes in reporting 32 102-50 Reporting period 32 102-51 Date of most recent report 32 102-52 Reporting cycle 32 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 33 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 33 102-55 GRI content index 30–31 102-56 External assurance 32 30 Reporting ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Topic-specific Disclosures Topic in ASSA ABLOY’s GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comment/Omission ­Materiality Analysis Economic Anti-corruption 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 7, 25, 26, 28, 29 Anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 26, 27 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 25, 26 policies and procedures Environmental Energy 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 16, 25, 28, 29 Energy GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 16, 32 302-3 Energy intensity 16 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 16, 32 Water 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 17, 25, 28, 29 Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 17 303-3 Water recycled and reused 17 Emissions 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 16, 25, 28, 29 Emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 16, 32 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 16, 32 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 16 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 16, 32 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 16 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 19 significant air emissions Effluents and Waste 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 18, 25, 28, 29 Water GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 17–18 Waste Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 18 306-3 Significant spills 18 Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 7, 15, 25, 28, 29 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 15 ­compliance GRI 307: Environmental regulations Compliance 2016 Supplier Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 12–14, 15, 25, 28, 29 Procurement Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 12–14 practices GRI 308: Supplier criteria Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 12–13 actions taken Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 25, 28, 29 Environmental management systems Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and 19 management other certifiable environmental management systems systems Social Occupational Health 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 22–23, 25, 28, 29 Occupational health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– 23 and safety GRI 403: Occupational worker health and safety committees Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 23 Data by gender and region not lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related available. Absenteeism and fatalities occupational diseases not available on Group level. During 2018 different options for simplified data collection will be evaluated. Diversity and Equal 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 7, 8, 21, 25, 28, 29 Diversity Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 21 Data by age groups not available. GRI 405: Diversity and During 2018 different options for Equal Opportunity 2016 simplified data collection will be evaluated. Human Rights 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 25, 27, 28, 29 Acquisitions Assessment 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that 27 GRI: 412 Human Rights include human rights clauses or that underwent human Assessment 2016 rights screening Supplier Social 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 12–14, 25 28, 29 Procurement Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12–14 practices GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 13 taken Marketing and Labeling 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 9, 11, 28, 29 Sustainable GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and 9–10 innovation/ Labeling 2016 labeling sustainable products * GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Reporting 31 Reporting Reporting principles ASSA ABLOY continually works to Calculation principles Changes in reporting management Reported number of employees represent the ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability reporting system facili­ improve reporting transparency, number of employed persons by the end of 2017. tates the collection of data that is aligned with the scope, quality and the frequency of Reported normalized KPIs are based on cur­ Group financial reporting. It also supports sustain­ information. This is the Group’s rency-neutral monetary values and value added ability management in all areas of operations. rather than sales – to minimize the effect of cur­ ASSA ABLOY has improved its internal sustain­ twelfth Sustainability Report. ASSA rency fluctuations and the ongoing restructuring ability reporting and analysis capabilities in recent ABLOY reports in accordance with of the Group. By using value added as a measure, years, which has resulted in restatements of pre­ the GRI Standards: Core option. the normalized values are also not affected by the viously reported data for water consumption, outsourcing of manufacturing. We believe this energy consumption and carbon emissions. Reporting units provides a more accurate picture of what is going All units report sustainability performance The number of entities (factories, sales companies on in the Group. every quarter (internal reporting). and offices) reporting on sustainability in 2017 ASSA ABLOY uses the CDP’s principle for cal­ has increased from 347 to 360. The data in the culating carbon emissions. The selected method GRI Standards sustainability report represents entities where gives a more relevant calculation on the actual The Sustainability Report covers the 2017 report­ 90% of the Group’s employees work. In terms of carbon emissions as it takes into account how ing year and has been developed with guidance manufacturing activities the report is estimated electricity is generated in different countries. from a number of standards and with substantial to cover entities that represents 95% of the Electricity emission factors are based on data input from investors and available rating schemes, Groups total manufacturing activities. The parts on electricity production for 2010, as published by in particular the GRI Standards. This report has of the Group that are not covered are either the International Energy Agency (IEA, 2012). These been prepared in accordance with the GRI related to recently acquired entities or entities emission factors are used for calculation of emis­ ­Standards: Core option. Accordingly, the GRI indi­ with less than 10 employees. Joint ventures are sions until end of 2016. In 2017 ASSA ABLOY have cators have been chosen to match the material included if ASSA ABLOY holds majority ownership. updated the emission factors used to calculate issues disclosed on page 29. Omissions or incom­ Sustainability indicators are reported by com­ greenhouse gases from electricity consumption. plete data are commented on directly in the GRI panies that have been part of the Group since at The emission factors are based on the most recent index on pages 30–31. least the end of the first quarter of 2017. data published by the International Energy Agency ASSA ABLOY reports its sustainability perfor­ (IEA) and the International Panel on Climate mance annually, and the most recent Sustainabil­ Change (IPCC), and are expressed in CO2 equiva­ ity Report, for 2016, was issued in March 2017. lents (CO2e). For Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom and the United States the emission factors are External assurance based on data published by national agencies. ASSA ABLOY has not sought external assurance for Due to the change in emission factors the CO2e the sustainability report of 2017. PwC Sweden has emissions from electricity have increased by 5 per­ performed a GRI check and confirms that ASSA NUMBER OF REPORTING UNITS cent. Previous years data have not been updated. ABLOY reports in accordance with the GRI Number ASSA ABLOY currently only report location ­Standards: Core option. 400 based Scope 2 emissions due to the unavailability 350 of market based data. Communication 300 District heating emission factors are calculated Internally, the Group intranet and sustainability 250 as a weighted average of energy sources for heat reporting database are important tools for com­ 200 production per country, based on data from 2009 munication. Externally, the Group website 150 as published by the International Energy Agency www.assaabloy.com and the annual Sustainability 100 (IEA, 2013). Report communicate to a wider audience. Emission factors for oil, coal and gas are based The Group also presents its sustainability 50 The number of reporting units in the Group has on data published by the United Nations Intergov­ approach to external audiences, such as analysts 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 increased to 360 (347). ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2006). and investors. Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in ASSA ABLOY AB (publ) AB, accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted ­corporate identity number 556059-3575 auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability Opinion report for the year 2017 and that it has been prepared in accordance with A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, 5 February 2018 The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustain­ability Bo Karlsson Linda Corneliusson report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in Auditor-in-charge 32 Reporting ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Glossary Contacts BIM Building Information Modeling (BIM), is Greenhouse gas emissions Gases from the Sustainable innovation: a method of drawing data-rich 3D objects that atmosphere that contribute to the green­ Zeljka Svensson provide a wealth of information on product house effect, for example CO2 and methane. Director, Global Innovation options and how the equipment integrates zeljka.svensson@assaabloy.com into a building. Indirect energy Electricity and heating. Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 BREEAM BREEAM is a sustainability assess­ Injury rate Measure of injuries per million Supply-chain integrity: ment method and rating system for buildings, hours worked. Stefan Calner measuring a building’s environmental perfor­ Director Supply Management mance during building design, construction Injury lost day rate Measure of days lost due stefan.calner@assaabloy.com and operation. to injuries per million hours worked. Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 CDP Formerly known as the Carbon Disclo­ ISO 14001 Global certifiable standard for Environmental sustainability: sure Project, CDP is an independent non-profit environmental management systems created Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY AB organization compiling the world’s largest by the International -Organization for Director Production Processes and database of corporate climate change infor­ ­Standardization. Environmental Sustainability mation. CDP harmonizes climate change data stefan.tisell@assaabloy.com from local -organizations from around the KPI Key Performance Indicator. Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 world to assist in the development of inter­ national carbon reporting standards. Lean Lean production philosophy is about Social and ethical matters: using as few resources as possible. The focus is Maria Romberg Ewerth, ASSA ABLOY AB Carbon footprint CO2 measurement of the on just-in-time production, which means that Senior Vice President Human Resources impact of human activities on the environ­ materials, parts and products are in the right maria.ewerth@assaabloy.com ment, in terms of the amount of greenhouse place at the right time. Striving for continuous Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 gases produced. improvement is an integral part of the Lean philosophy. CO2 Carbon dioxide. LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Direct energy Energy generated and utilized Design. on site from oil, gas, etc. NGO Non-governmental organization. EBIT Earnings before interest and tax. Organic solvents Perchloroethylene and Environmental Product Declaration ­trichloroethylene. (EPD) is a verified and registered document that communicates transparent and com­ PER Perchloroethylene. parable information about the life-cycle environ­mental impact of products. SRI Socially Responsible Investment. Global Compact UN initiative that encour­ TRI Trichloroethylene. ages companies to apply sustainable and socially responsible principles. Value added EBIT (earnings before income and tax) plus total cost for personnel. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Global guidelines for sustainability reporting. Global-warming potential (GWP) A relative measure of how much heat a greenhouse gas traps in the atmosphere. Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet 2018. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Glossary / Contacts 33 ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, dedicated to satisfying ASSA ABLOY AB end-user needs for security, Box 70340 safety and convenience SE-107 23 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Tel +46 (0)8 506 485 00 Fax +46 (0)8 506 485 85 www.assaabloy.com Corp. Reg. No. 556059-3575 Building to the World’s Most Advanced Green Building Standard CUSTOMER: Hampshire College is a private ing the building, the workersthat produce the facturers. ASSA ABLOY made their job easier by prol­ iberal arts college in Amherst, Massachusetts, US. building materials and the environmentas a whole. viding Declare labels that list material ingredients The college, being environmentally focused, sought To achieve this designation, a structure must generfor the door opening products used on the project to construct a new classroom and administration ate its own electricity, collect its own water and including doors, locks and exit devices, hinges, door facility to reflect this ideal. avoid building products – including door openings ­operators, accessories and pulls. – that contain “red list” chemicals. “Having companies like ASSA ABLOY declare CHALLENGE: The R. W. Kern Center at Hampshire that they meet standards, and provide ingredient College is a USD 7.8 million, 17,000 square foot SOLUTION: Achieving this goal requires selection lists, was an incredible help,” said Andrew Solem, classroom and administration facility constructed of building products with accompanying trans­ ­assistant project manager for Wright Builders. to the sustainability-driven Living Building Chalparency statements that openly list the material “The labels allow architects, designers, specifiers lenge (LBC), the built environment’s most rigorous ingredients of these products. Finding products and builders to know immediately whether or not sustainability performance standard. The intent of with transparency labels can be a challenge. that the product will meet most green building the LBC is to build structures that are free from The construction firm building the R.W. Kern ­programs and guidelines, including the Living harmful chemicals, protecting not only those that ­Center, Wright Builders, spent months sourcing ­Building Challenge.” live and work within, but alsothe people constructcomponents and ingredient lists from manu­
