UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communications of Progress (COP) 2018 December 2018 Contents Statement of Continued Support By the Chief Executive Officer 3 Human Rights 4 Labour Standards 6 Environment 7 Anti-Corruption 9 ABOUT NATHAN Nathan is a private international economic and analytics consulting firm that works with government and commercial clients around the globe to deliver practical solutions and achieve lasting results. Whether building frameworks for economic growth or navigating regulatory hurdles, securing infrastructure financing or evaluating and assessing disputes, Nathan’s experts serve as trusted partners, offering clients the analysis, technical advice, and strategies they need for sound decision-making. Known for both technical and service excellence and with corporate offices in the US, London, and India and more than 40 program offices around the world. More information about Nathan can be found at nathaninc.com NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2nd December 2018 As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, Nathan Associates strongly supports this instrumental corporate sustainability initiative. This document is the first annual Communication on Progress report from Nathan Associates and I would like to confirm our continued commitment to the Compact’s 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Nathan Associates is an international private consulting firm that delivers sound, and defensible analytic and economic solutions and analyses for government and commercial clients around the world. For almost 75 years, clients have relied on Nathan Associates to handle complex, high-stakes assignments, and provide exceptional value while maintaining the highest standards of integrity and legality. In this report, we provide a summary of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with any interested party. Susan Chodakewitz President & Chief Executive Officer Nathan Associates NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 3 SECTION 1: HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Nathan is fully committed to uphold human rights principles and frameworks, promoting and supporting human rights of employees, Businesses should suppliers, partners and beneficiaries we work with, or come into contact. support and respect We are also absolutely committed to safeguarding people and ensuring the protection of that our actions do no harm. internationally proclaimed human Nathan is committed to conducting all of its affairs and activities with the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct. Nathan embraces a rights; and culture in which employees are free and encouraged to speak up when they see behaviour that is not aligned with any of its policies including Principle 2: those related to human rights abuses. make sure that they are not complicit in human Some of the policies and procedures that we have put in place that include principles 1 and 2 include: rights abuses. • Code of Business Conduct: clearly sets out the standards of ethical behaviour for all employees, suppliers and partners. • Anti-Modern Slavery Policy: sets out our policy to ensure as far as practical that our suppliers and partners are not involved in trafficking or modern slavery. • Safeguarding Policy: set out our policy to ensure that women, children and the very poor are protected from physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse and neglect. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4 HUMAN RIGHTS Nathan is fully committed to uphold human rights principles and frameworks, promoting and supporting human rights of employees, suppliers, partners and beneficiaries we work with, or come into contact. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Policy Review and Attestation: All of Nathan’s employees, suppliers and partners review and sign Nathan’s Code of Business Conduct. • Compliance Training: Nathan provides annual training and awareness raising sessions to ensure that all employees and suppliers understand the importance of respecting human rights in our work. • Due Diligence Systems: Vetting and due diligence process highlights and communicates risks related to human rights. • Reporting: Employees can report their concerns to their manager, Human Resources or anyone in management. Nathan also has a Global Hotline, that is operated by a third-party, for employees, suppliers and partners to report a concern or a claim confidentially, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5 SECTION 2: LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Nathan is fully committed to ensuring a safe and trusted environment for our employees, suppliers, partners and beneficiaries. This commitment Businesses should uphold includes our aim to tackle the issues of forced labour and modern slavery the freedom of association as detailed in Nathan’s Business Code of Conduct, Anti-Modern Slavery and the effective Policy and Safeguarding Policy, amongst others. More specifically: recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • All firms that are part of our supply chain are provided with contracts and must review the policy and sign the attestation for the Business Code of Conduct, which Nathan is able to audit at Principle 4: any time for compliance. the elimination of all forms • All employees are made aware of company policies through an of forced and compulsory Employee Handbook, setting out their rights, responsibilities and labour; benefits, and the need to take an online Ethics Training. Nathan’s policies related to labour practices include: Principle 5: • Diversity and Equal Employment: Nathan has adopted a formal the effective abolition of Equality and Diversity Policy to ensure employees, contractors, child labour; and associates and applicants are treated equally. Nathan recruits, in all job areas, without discriminating against on grounds of their age, disability, gender reassignment, race, religion or belief, sex, Principle 6: sexual orientation, marriage & civil partnership, or pregnancy/ the elimination of maternity status. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 6 LABOUR STANDARDS Nathan is fully • Harassment in the Workplace: Nathan prohibits harassment of one employee by another employee, manager or third party. committed to Harassment is conduct that has the purpose or effect of creating ensuring a safe and an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment and trusted environment unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance. Harassment may consist of verbal, physical, visual or sexual for our employees, harassment; it may include retaliation for reporting harassment or suppliers, partners and threatening to report harassment. beneficiaries. • Commitment to Non-retaliation: Nathan prohibits any form of retaliation against an employee, supplier, or partner who files a complaint, in good faith, or participates in an investigation regarding a violation of Nathan’s Code of Conduct or any other policy. Nathan will not tolerate any harassment, retaliation or reprisals of any kind. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Compliance Training: Training and awareness raising takes place to ensure that employees, suppliers and partners understand what modern slavery is in our work. • Reporting: Ensuring that our reporting procedures of any contraventions to our labour standards are clear, can be made easily and with confidence, and are dealt in an effective manner. This also includes that claims can be made in Nathan’s Global Hotline (available 24 hours, seven days a week) related to principles three, four, five and six of the UN Global Compact. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 7 SECTION 3: ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Nathan has an Environmental Policy in place which is communicated through our Business Code of Conduct and Vetting and Due Diligence Businesses should procedures. We maintain a policy of “minimum waste” and recycling, support a precautionary which is essential to the cost-effective and efficient running of our approach to operations. Our staff and all those who work for us are expected to environmental promote this policy by minimising printing, collecting and recycling challenges; office paper, or avoiding use of disposable products. Nathan is committed to: Principle 8: • Meet relevant environmental legislation undertake initiatives • Integrate sustainable practices into our operations to promote greater • Progressively implement an environmental management system environmental • Raise awareness of the issues and our policies amongst employees, suppliers and partners. responsibility; and MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Principle 9: • Company Communication: Regular communications around encourage the energy and waste management provided to all staff (e.g. recycling development audit results). • Employee Participation: Continuous involvement of our Office and diffusion of Managers in improving the environmental footprint in our offices. environmentally friendly technologies. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 8 SECTION 4: ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Nathan has a zero tolerance on bribery and corruption. Nathan will conduct its business in an honest and ethical manner. Nathan’s AntiBusinesses should work Bribery Policy represents our commitment to conduct operations against all forms of ethically and in compliance with applicable anticorruption laws and corruption, including regulations in jurisdictions in which it operates. extortion and bribery Nathan does not tolerate corruption in any form, whether directly or indirectly. Corruption causes poverty, inhibits economic growth, is damaging to businesses, and may result in criminal and civil liability and penalties for any personnel or person working on behalf of Nathan. Nathan has several policies and procedures in place which cover AntiCorruption: • Code of Business Conduct: clearly sets out the standards of ethical behaviour for all employees, suppliers and partners. • Anti-Bribery Policy: sets out conduct operations ethically and in compliance with applicable anticorruption laws and regulations • Whistleblowing Policy: provides clear procedures for reporting and ensuring that all employees, suppliers and partners are able to speak up in confidence any concerns they might have. • Vetting and Due Diligence Policy: set out our due diligence procedures, including managing conflict of interests (which could be potentially perceived as fraud, bribery or corruption). NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Nathan has a zero tolerance on bribery and corruption. Nathan will conduct its business in an honest and ethical manner. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Compliance Training: Training of Nathan staff on the company’s ethical approach so that everyone understands what corruption is and how to report it. • Reporting: Ensuring that our reporting and whistleblowing procedures allows for claims of employees, suppliers, partners and beneficiaries related to fraud, bribery and corruption to be dealt with in an effective manner. This also includes ensuring that Nathan’s Global Hotline is available to report on claims related to principle ten of the UN Global Compact 24 hours a day, seven days a week, anywhere in the world. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10
