Communication on Progress CEO Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact and Its Ten Principles 1. COP1000mercis 2018 To our stakeholders: As a member of the UN Global Compact since 2014, we are pleased to reconfirm our commitment to support the UN Global Compact’s ten principles about Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption policies. This annual communication form regards actions done to improve these ten principles’ integration into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Moreover, we are committing to communicate this information to our stakeholders. Paris, October 30th 2018 Yseulys COSTES 1000mercis CEO 2. COP1000mercis 2018 Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to Human Rights IEvaluation and objectives 1000mercis considers the Universal Declaration of Human Rights a key point of its business strategy. It involves all stakeholders, both internal and external to the company. Every decision complies with Human Rights. IIImplementation We register our politics linked to Human Rights in our company rules and regulations. Every employee receive these rules upon arrival into the company. 1000mercis encourages and respects the protection of international rights linked to Human Rights in its sphere of influence and shall ensure that its activities and stakeholders are not complicit in violation of Human Rights. 1000mercis has implemented an ethical alert process that allows every employee to report a violation in the fields of accounting, finance, banking, or on matters relating to the fight against corruption or competition, but also acts of discrimination, harassment or serious breaches of health and safety legislation, endangering the physical or mental health of employees. It aims at strengthening the means of expression of each person so that everyone is an actor in risk prevention. IIIMeasurement of outcomes More than 20 different nationalities are present in the company with offices located in Paris, London, New York, Palo Alto, Dubaï, Amsterdam, Tel Aviv, Milan, Montreal where our values and culture concerning Human Rights are shared wherever the place. 3. COP1000mercis 2018 Our pre-hiring criterion are only based on the individual’s competencies and never on ethnical origins, religious beliefs, age, gender or any other discrimination. Today, we never have had to face any incident related to Human Rights. The Executive Committee directly monitors this kind of issues. Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to Labor 1000mercis committed to follow Labor Rights and developed specified policies for employees. Among others, these commitments are: • Elimination of forced or compulsory labor • The effective abolition of child labor • Elimination of discrimination in terms of employment and occupations IEvaluation and objectives Our different commitments and policies in terms of labor rights are as follow: 1000mercis selects its suppliers particularly on the basis of a code of conduct Diversity has always been a value of the company IIImplementation 1000mercis implements trainings in order to raise awareness about the whole group’s line of business. 4. COP1000mercis 2018 1000mercis selects its suppliers according to their code of conduct. It has to involve respect of applicable labor laws and fight against child labor and any other kind of discrimination and corruption. We make a point of collaborating only with suppliers that comply with our code of conduct, which also respects the principles detailed in the International Labor Organization, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD and those in the Global Compact. 1000mercis has also adopted a Gender Parity Plan in order to promote gender equality in the company. It contains quantified targets by teams to improve continuously in areas like remuneration, articulation between professional activity and the exercise of family responsibility... The company is actively involved in favor of the training of its employees, whether through face-to-face training session, lectures, and languages courses through external institutes. The subjects can vary from tool training, jobs training and skills training. 1000mercis is committed to the well-being of its employees and is aware of the need to adapt the work rhythms to particular personal situations. Thus, the company offers its employees the opportunity to adapt their working time and encourages teleworking arrangements in order to reduce the impact of their work, health risks and promote workplace safety. IIIMeasurements of outcomes • For 5 years, women have been composing 50% of the Board of Directors • 50% of the Board of Directors is composed by independent directors • Almost half of the Group’s executives is women • Women represent 40% of the Management Committee • Even if 1000mercis’ core business is young, the company has implemented a specific plan for seniors about employment, annual personnel follow-up of each employee, a better organization of these employees’ working lives…etc. The Employee Representative Committee deals with these seniors’ plan objectives. 5. COP1000mercis 2018 • Aware of the growing internationalization of its activities, 1000mercis did choose to favor geographic diversity inside its teams. Indeed, since 2011, the company has employed more than 20 different nationalities. • 1000mercis has proceeded to the hiring of 74 persons for permanent position within the company during this year. • The company has taught no less than 2544 hours of training within the year. Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to the Environment 1000mercis confirms its commitment to the respect of the environment and declares it has made commitments applied with both internal and external stakeholders, such as: • A huge support toward environmental responsibilities • Promotion of both the clarification and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies IEvaluation and objectives First, digital devices fit perfectly into a sustainable approach because they are part of today’s culture. They are at the heart of stakeholders’ relationships and allow interesting social innovations. Both evolution of stakeholders’ relations and reduction of energy expenditures are consequences of the diversity of communication channels, development of internal services, as well as the application of all the new organizations. 6. COP1000mercis 2018 Furthermore, 1000mercis is committed to respecting equity and ethical principles with both its employees and partners. IIImplementation 1000mercis teams are highly concerned about recycling measures: • The company encourages its employees to privilege public transport by refunding half of their public transport fees. It also favors videoconferencing with business partners over travels. • Informatics old devices are given to associations in order to be reused or recycled • Empty printer cartridges are stored and taken over to be recycled • Used battery collection is organized everywhere in the company for personal and professional purposes Paper consumption is optimized by recycled draft paper uses. • Plastic consumable products have been reduced to a strict minimum (suppression of both tumblers and plastic bottles) to be replaced by long-lasting dinnerware. • Selective sorting is done for paper and cardboard trash • Employees are aware of and responsible toward energy consumption. For instance, every employee ensures to switch off his IT post when leaving his office. • 1000mercis has an action plan in favor of energy savings and reduction of greenhouse gas. Therefore, the company has chosen one of the vehicles that gives off less greenhouse gas. 7. COP1000mercis 2018 • The company contributes to the reforestation. It has a partnership with Reforestaction to develop the forest of Mont Saint-Père. Every employee hired can activate its account. It triggers the plantation of eight trees. 1794 trees have been planted already. 1000mercis renewed its partnership with the company Les Joyeux Recycleurs and with the Company Apisop, which promotes the integration of disabled people excluded from workplace. IIIMeasurement of outcomes • 10000mercis does not have any industrial production sites. lts activitiy is exclusively online and thus has a limited impact on the environment and greenhouse gas emission. • Today, 1000mercis sorts and Les Joyeux Recycleurs collects cardboard, paper, plastic bottles and tumblers, cigarette butts, light bulbs, coffee capsules etc. Then they give 1000mercis statistics upon its dust and deposits 5 cents to Ares Atelier (Adjustment Center to promote working life) for each kilogram of dust collected 8. COP1000mercis 2018 Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to the Fight Against Corruption IEvaluation and objectives 1000mercis is a limited listed (NYSE Euronext Paris) company and ruled by a board of directors and a CEO. 1000mercis is committed to conforming its politic to the Middlenext Code of Governance. An anti-bribery code has been written and approved by the board of directors, which binds the employees to strict rules regarding corruption, and frames the relation with its business partners. II-Implementation The Board of Directors has accepted, since 2010, an insider trading prevention guide. These rules of conduct involve all of the company’s stakeholders and Board of Directors’ members who are supposed to have privileged information in terms of the AMF General Regulations. The Board of Directors has officially expressed their adherence to the Corporate Governance principles and codes. AFEP-MEDEF has a reference and is engaged to fulfilling and respecting its recommendations. For instance: • 50% of independent directors in the Board of Directors (AFEP-MEDEF Code, article 8) 9. COP1000mercis 2018 • 50% of the Board of Directors is composed by women. (AFEP-MEDEF Code, article 8). In 2010, a Remuneration Committee was created. (AFEP-MEDEF Code, article 16) Moreover, 1000mercis has adopted a policy of payment of membership points regarding attendance and/or implication in the specialized committees. An online training session has been developed to sensitize the employees to the risk of corruption. III-Measurement of outcomes 1000mercis measures and makes sure that all of the company’s employees know and adhere to the Group policy by internal controls. The number of alerts reported by the compliance officer and the legal team per year through the ethical alert process is also a good indicator of the level of compliance to the anti-bribery code. 10. COP1000mercis 2018
