2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Period covered by this Communication on Progress (COP): 2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER November 29, 2018 To our stakeholders: On January 1, 2018, Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and Agrium completed a merger of equals creating the new company, Nutrien. I am pleased to confirm that Nutrien reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Chuck Magro President and CEO 13131 Lake Fraser Drive S.E. • Calgary, Alberta • T2J 7E8 • Canada nutrien.com 1 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Nutrien’s most important assets are our employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. It is critical that we maintain the trust of each. Our Code of Ethics (“Code”) helps us fulfill our responsibilities by: • Committing to the public and our stakeholders our uncompromising integrity in every aspect of our efforts. • Describing our values and principles of business conduct, including our own high standards and our fundamental respect for the rule of law. • Guiding employees how to engage in ethical decision making in all our operations around the world. • Outlining our approach to interacting ethically with stakeholders – employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, governments and communities – and acting in the best interest of shareholders. Each year, employees are asked to complete the Code of Ethics training course. Upon completion of this training, they may be asked to reaffirm their commitment to comply with the Code of Ethics. Nutrien encourages respect for the rights, culture, diversity and dignity of all individuals. Nutrien strives to maintain a work environment that is respectful, professional and free from discrimination and harassment. Nutrien will not tolerate discrimination or harassment directed at any individual or group with respect to, but not limited to, race, gender, gender identity, gender expression, color, religion, national origin, age, qualifying disability, veteran status, marital status, family status, pregnancy, sexual orientation or any activity specifically protected under a Nutrien policy. Jurisdictions in which we do business may include additional protected grounds not mentioned above. Nutrien will comply with all applicable local employment and human rights laws in any jurisdiction where we do business. As described in the Code, if a worker experiences or becomes aware of any act of discrimination or harassment, they have a duty to report it. They will not face retaliation for making a good faith complaint, assisting in an investigation or filing a complaint with any governmental agency under federal, provincial, state or local employment discrimination laws. Nutrien seeks to be an active and contributing member of each community, and create long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with our communities. We must engage in business practices that respect the value of human life and the communities in which we do business. It is our responsibility to know our suppliers, customers and business partners. We strive to conduct business with those who act in a responsible manner and refuse to work with those that we know commit human rights abuses, violate anticorruption laws or otherwise risk damaging the reputation of Nutrien. Nutrien has a Supplier Code of Ethics (the “Supplier Code”) that defines the key principles under which Nutrien Suppliers are required to operate, and reflects the fundamental expectations we have of any company with which we do business. In selecting Suppliers, Nutrien seeks reputable business partners 13131 Lake Fraser Drive S.E. • Calgary, Alberta • T2J 7E8 • Canada nutrien.com 2 that are committed to ethical standards and business practices that align with our own. We strongly encourage Suppliers to exceed the minimum requirements of this Code and to promote best practices and continuous improvement throughout their operations. Nutrien expects each of its Suppliers to act responsibly and ethically in all business dealings and to ensure that no abusive, exploitative or illegal conditions exist within its company or supply networks. All current and prospective Nutrien Suppliers are expected be familiar with the principles detailed in supplier policies, and to meet all requirements detailed in our Supplier Qualification process in the Nutrien Procurement Policy, before applying to be a Nutrien Supplier. Environment Our Commitment to Safety, Health and the Environment (SH&E) Our overriding concerns are safety of people and protection of the environment. At Nutrien, safety is more than just a priority, it is a core value which becomes an inseparable component of all we do at work, at home and as an example to others. Our goals simply stated are: No harm to people and a relentless pursuit of minimizing our environmental impacts. The drive to achieve these goals motivates us every day to find better ways to operate safely, to ensure no harm to our people and to continuously reduce our environmental impact. In all our activities and operations, we will: • Ensure that all our employees, contractors and others are well informed, well trained, engaged, attentive and committed to the SH&E processes. All Nutrien employees and contractors have a responsibility to work safely and protect the environment. • Recognize that safe operations depend not only on technically sound plants and equipment, but also on competent people and a culture of caring, that values safety and the protection of the environment. No activity is so important that it cannot be done safely and without creating undue environmental risk. • Comply fully with all regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. • Strive to minimize our environmental footprint, including waste, emissions and discharges from our operations. • Provide a secure working environment by protecting ourselves, our assets and our operations against risk of injury, loss or damage. • Regularly provide assurance that the safety and environmental protection processes in place are working effectively. • Maintain public confidence in the integrity of our operations. We will actively communicate and consult with people outside Nutrien to improve our understanding of SH&E related issues associated with our operations. • Actively participate in hazard identification and safety, health, environmental and security compliance audits, voluntary efforts and reporting of SH&E performance results. • Actively encourage and enable our employees to make healthy lifestyle choices at work and at home. • Continuously seek opportunities to improve safety processes in our contractor relationships, emphasizing product stewardship and the safe transport of our products. 13131 Lake Fraser Drive S.E. • Calgary, Alberta • T2J 7E8 • Canada nutrien.com 3 If we become aware of circumstances relating to Nutrien’s operations or activities that raise a safety or environmental concern, we will report the matter to our supervisors, to our Safety and Health Committee members, to the Human Resources Department, to the Legal Department or by one of the other methods described in the Code. Labour Nutrien's policies and Code of Ethics outline our employees' rights and obligations for building a respectful and discrimination-free workplace. Employees are free to organize into trade unions. Our relationship with labour unions is critical to the reliable operation of our facilities, and we successfully renegotiate union contracts regularly. According to our Supplier Code of Ethics, all Nutrien suppliers must: • Not tolerate Child, Exploitative, Forced or Compulsory Labor or Corporal Punishment; • Not directly or indirectly participate in any form of Human Trafficking; • Ensure that all applicable labor and employment laws are followed, and ensure that all working conditions, including but not limited to wages and hours of work are respected and adhered to at all times; • In accordance with all applicable laws, uphold employees’ human rights, including but not limited to the rights to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, opinion, and expression; • Uphold employees’ right to freedom of association, and the rights to collective bargaining and to form and join trade unions, in accordance with local laws; and • Provide employees with equal pay for equal work, timely pay, and periodic holidays with pay. Anti-Corruption As described in the Code of Ethics, all Nutrien employees must engage in ethical conduct and comply with all foreign and local anti-corruption and antibribery laws in any jurisdiction in which we do business. Anti-corruption laws prohibit bribing anyone -including government officials and business partners -by offering anything of value, either directly or indirectly through a third party, in an attempt to obtain or retain business or a business advantage. Nutrien prohibits the payment of all bribes whether to government officials or business partners. We have also implemented a Global AntiCorruption Policy with more details and guidance. According to our Supplier Code of Ethics, all Nutrien suppliers must abide by all applicable antiCorruption and anti-Bribery laws, and never directly or indirectly practice or tolerate any form of Corruption, Bribery, Kickbacks, Extortion, Embezzlement, or Insider Trading (this includes commercial Bribery of one of our employees and any Bribery of a government official in violation of the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Officials Act or the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). 13131 Lake Fraser Drive S.E. • Calgary, Alberta • T2J 7E8 • Canada nutrien.com 4 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES On January 1, 2018, Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and Agrium completed a merger of equals creating the new company, Nutrien. Below are select combined sustainability performance metrics of the legacy companies. 1 The number of permanent employees who left the company due to voluntary and involuntary terminations, including retirements and deaths, as a percentage of total permanent employees at the end of the year. 2 Environment: Data in this section includes statistics for our Nitrogen, Phosphate and Potash manufacturing and legacy Agrium terminals, and Retail manufacturing, unless specifically noted. 3 Criteria Air Contaminants include CO, NOx, SOx, VOCs, and particulates company-wide as required by the Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory. 4 Includes natural gas, fuel, and electricity use at our facilities. The majority of our energy use is from natural gas as feedstock. 5 Includes environmental incidents company-wide for our Nitrogen, Phosphate and Potash business units and only in North America for our Retail business unit. Environmental incidents include the total of: Reportable Quantity Releases, NonCompliance Incidents, and Enforcement Actions. 6 % Change is calculated between the years 2015 and 2017. 13131 Lake Fraser Drive S.E. • Calgary, Alberta • T2J 7E8 • Canada nutrien.com 5
