Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 siteimprove.com Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 2 // Contents Letter From the CEO 4-5 3. Who We Are 6 3.1 Truly Global, Truly Local 6 3.2 Our Core Values 7 3.3 Our Mission 8 3.4 Siteimprove’s Products 8 3.5 Our Customers 8 4. Siteimprove and the Sustainable Development Goals 9 4.1 Goal 4: Quality Education 10 4.2 Goal 10: Reducing Inequalities 10 4.3 Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals 11 5. Accessibility State of the Globe 2018 13 Methodology 14 Results 14 6. Human Rights 16 6.1 Global Compact Principles 1-2 18 6.2 SDGs and Human Rights 18 Partnerships 19 6.3 Siteimprove’s Google Chrome Accessibility Checker 20 6.4 Personal Data Protection 20 GDPR Compliance 20 Helping Organizations Comply With GDPR 20 Share Without Being Tracked 21 Your Data Is Yours 21 6.5 Siteimprove Celebrates Biggest Global Accessibility Awareness Day in Copenhagen to Date! 22-25 6.6 Siteimprove’s Human Rights Goals 26-27 Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 3 // 7. Labor Rights 29 7.1 Global Compact Principles 3-6 30 7.2 Employee Satisfaction 30 Great Place to Work Across the Globe 30 A Top Work Place in Minnesota 31 Professional Development 31 Employee Involvement 31 7.3 Diversity and Anti-Discrimination 32 Equal Opportunities 32 Diversity and Inclusion 32 Living by the Code 33 Sitemprove’s Labor Rights Goals 34-35 8. Environment 36-37 8.1 Global Compact Principles 7-9 38 8.2 Siteimprove’s Environmental Policy 38 8.3 Minimizing Our Carbon Footprint 38 8.4 Recycling and Reducing Waste 39 8.5 Siteimprove’s Environment Goals 39 9. Anti-Corruption 40 9.1 Global Compact Principle 10 40 9.2 Corruption Risks and the Code of Conduct 40 9.3 Siteimprove’s Anti-Corruption Goals 41 10. Local Siteimprove Initiatives 42 10.1 Berlin 42 Mapping the Accessibility of Berlin – July 42 10.2 Minneapolis 42 Staff Provide Vision Guide Services at Local Art Museum – July 42 Halloween with AccessAbility – October 43 Goodwill Clothing Drive – November 10.3 Toronto 43 Meals for Youth with The Yonge Street Mission – September 43 Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 4 // Letter from the CEO 2017 was a big year for Siteimprove™ as we continued web professionals heard from great minds such as Sir our growth journey and expanded our Corporate Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, and Social Responsibility efforts. We welcomed 245 new Jennison Asuncion, co-founder of GAAD. colleagues across our nine offices, and we increased our customer base to more than 6,000 clients who have We’ve been part of the UN Global Compact since 2010, joined us in our mission to make the web a better place. and in 2017 we took our CSR commitments a step 2017 was also the year we decided to adjust the CSR further. We committed to the Sustainable Development reporting period so it follows the calendar year and Goals (SDGs), the UN’s 2030 Agenda, and we’ve aligns with our annual report. identified the areas where we can have the greatest impact. The work that we do to increase awareness We made great strides in 2017, especially in regards about digital accessibility and make the web more to CSR, where we sharpened our focus and took inclusive ties in well with goals 4 and 10 regarding on more responsibility as a global actor in the fight quality education and reducing inequalities. We’re for an inclusive World Wide Web. Organizing and also working with goal 17 by partnering for the goals, hosting our biggest accessibility event to date was because we will only achieve these goals by working the highlight of the CSR year at Siteimprove as we together across industries and sectors. Becoming a celebrated Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) in member of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and Copenhagen on May 18. We organized a huge not-forparticipating in the WAI-Tools Project, which is part of profit outdoor event where a number of great guest the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 Programme, speakers and experts donated their time to come are good examples of the partnerships we engage in as along and educate and inspire the audience. It was a part of our work to achieve the SDGs. fantastic day and helped raise much needed awareness about digital accessibility. Members of the public, We continue to have a strong focus on our employees’ Siteimprove employees from around the world, and satisfaction, and with all the new faces joining us, we Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 5 // work hard to integrate them and make sure that they feel at home at Siteimprove. I’m very happy to report that both Great Place to Work® and the Star Tribune found high employee satisfaction levels to amongst our offices for the third year in a row. In both surveys we ranked among the top workplaces, and we even improved compared to last year. I hope you enjoy reading about our CSR work and our contributions to the SDGs in this year’s report. May it inspire you to take action yourself and join us in our mission for a better web for all. Morten Ersbøll Ebbesen, Chief Executive Officer Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 6 // Who We Are 3.1 Truly Global, Truly Local 520 employees 40 nationalitiess Founded in 2003 Amsterdam Berlin Copenhagen London Minneapolis Oslo Sydney Toronto Vienna Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 7 // Plain and simple, we love what we do. Our latest employee surveys around the globe revealed that our employees feel passionate about their work every single day. We are a people-centric company driven by the desire to help customers make the most of their digital presence, while providing the knowledge and tools they need to help make the internet a better, more inclusive place for all. As the digital world becomes increasingly complex, it’s more important than ever for organizations to maintain an error-free, consistent, up-to-date, and accessible digital presence. Our intelligent automation software and best-inclass customer support have helped more than 6,000 organizations worldwide transform the way they manage and deliver their digital presence. 3.2 Our Core Values Passionate to People-Centric CustomerEmbracing and Succeed We foster an environment Focused Driving Change We are ambitious, driven of mutual respect and We are symbiotic with We thrive on change and by achievement, and are trust where we learn and our customers. Their seize opportunities to be motivated by challenges. grow from our mistakes. success is ours. We bring industry pioneers. We are Together, we recognize We strive to the best we in individual perspectives, agile and curious, always and celebrate the success can be and inspire each experiences, and ready to take smart risks of both the company and other to develop and professional knowledge that help the business the individual. succeed. to create value for all of evolve. them. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 8 // 3.3 Our Mission With our easy-to-use analytics features, teams can measure and track visitor behavior in order to make Siteimprove’s mission is to make a better web for all. more informed decisions about site structure and Our team remains dedicated to that mission while also content strategy. Organizations can also define and developing new and innovative ways to streamline report on relevant KPIs and use real-time data to the creation and management of a reliable, accessible visualize the effectiveness of their digital presence. digital presence. Our mission permeates everything we In addition to our products themselves, we provide do: It’s evident in the product solutions we build, the an unparalleled customer experience through our support we offer, and the services and education we services and personalized customer support. With provide. It’s also apparent through our commitment to tiered support plans that offer customers the right the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable level of support when they need it, Siteimprove is a Development Goals, where we focus on increasing comprehensive way for organizations to manage and equality on the web. deliver their digital presence exactly as intended. 3.4 Siteimprove’s Products 3.5 Our Customers We challenge each other and ourselves to think outside the box every day. At Siteimprove, we collaborate Our customer base of 6,000 organizations (and across departments and borders to innovate and counting) derives from a wide variety of industries, improve our tools, and experiment with new processes including higher education, finance, government, to make our products and services even stronger. Fortune 500, healthcare, retail, nonprofit, and more. Our primary product is the Siteimprove Intelligence Nine international offices serve 29 markets across Platform, which provides content and analytics insights four continents, and deliver unparalleled services in that help organizations connect their digital strategy to 13 languages. The Siteimprove Intelligence Platform larger goals. and our services are adaptable to organizations big and small, from innovative startup companies to The intuitive, gamified dashboard centers around educational institutions of all sizes, and corporations our recently developed Digital Certainty Index™ and such as Audi, Land o’ Lakes, Microsoft, and Oxford allows organizations to streamline the content creation University Press. process to more effectively manage the quality, credibility, and impact of online content. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 9 // 4. Siteimprove and the Sustainable Development Goals Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 10 // several events for 2018 to foster understanding of digital accessibility and to get people talking, thinking, and learning. We create and share content on digital accessibility on our website In 2015, the United Nations agreed to 17 global and social media to expand our reach and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved spread the word about the need and benefits of by 2030, and we are strong supporters. We believe having an inclusive digital presence. Siteimprove is uniquely positioned to contribute to the oo Education, and higher education in particular, is SDGs within digital human rights, and we’re focusing one of Siteimprove’s main customer segments. on three specific goals where we can make the biggest With our tools, support, and expertise, schools, impact, as they align with our core business and area of colleges, and universities are equipped to make expertise. their information and services available to users with disabilities, which is one way of ensuring 4.1 Goal 4: Quality quality education for a larger part of society. Education Ensuring inclusive and equitable 4.2 Goal 10: Reducing quality education and promoting Inequalities lifelong learning opportunities Empowering and promoting the for all social, economic, and political inclusion of all, irrespective oo We are committed to providing equitable, quality of age, sex, disability, race, education for all. We want to provide everyone ethnicity, origin, religion, with access to the skills they need to improve economic, or other status the accessibility of their websites. To do so, we introduced the Siteimprove Academy in 2017 oo We believe that accessing and utilizing websites and made our Must-Have Accessibility Handbook is a fundamental right. Our objective is to use free to access, while also launching our freely our technology to make a genuine difference, available Accessibility Hub. and we want to give everyone the tools they oo Increasing awareness of the importance of need to contribute to the change. digital accessibility has become an important social responsibility concern for Siteimprove. We oo We have developed and innovated our regularly organize events to increase awareness, Siteimprove Accessibility software tool for more and every year we contribute to Global than 10 years to help organizations remove Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD). In 2017, we digital barriers from their websites. In 2017 we organized a huge not-for-profit outdoor event in took a crucial step towards enabling as many Copenhagen to mark GAAD, and we are planning people as possible to utilize our innovation. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 11 // With the aim of overcoming availability and affordability of accessibility tools, we released oo We are committed to bringing together key the free Siteimprove Accessibility Checker stakeholders to understand the issues, find for Google Chrome. The Chrome extension solutions, and collaborate to deliver change. empowers users to detect, understand, and fix oo In 2017 we hosted and participated in several accessibility issues on their websites, and it is panel discussions to encourage positive currently utilized by more than 25,000 people dialogue among policy makers, civil society, around the world and is downloaded by 1,000 and standards organizations, including our new users each month. participation in the 10th Session of the UN Convention for the Rights of People with 4.3 Goal 17: Partnerships Disabilities (UN COPS 10). for the Goals oo We are one of the participants of WAI-Tools, a Encouraging and promoting collaborative project to innovate accessibility effective public, public-private, testing alongside a consortium of key players in and civil society partnerships, the accessibility industry, national authorities, building on the experience and the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and resourcing strategies of partnerships oo We will continue to encourage governments at all levels around the world to promote the digital Our contribution inclusion of persons with disabilities by adopting effective policies and international accessibility oo We believe that reducing the digital divide can standards. only be achieved by the joint efforts of multiple stakeholders. Strategies and policies jointly defined by governments, industry, and civil society have far-reaching effects on closing the digital gap and overcoming the lack of instruments and skills. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 12 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 13 // 5. Accessibility State of the Globe 2018 Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 14 // At Siteimprove, we want to publish a status on the companies* in each market. The public sector consists accessibility levels of public and private websites of local councils, governments, and agencies that have around the globe to better highlight the digital been added manually to Siteimprove’s system over accessibility challenges society faces today. We aspire the years. All data have been collected in Q1 of 2018. to publish this status once a year through our CSR Siteimprove customers have not been included in these reports and hope to witness increasing accessibility statistics. levels going forward. By improving the level of accessibility on websites around the world, we can all The Accessibility Score is a measure of how well a site contribute to making the web a better place for all. meets the standards set out in WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) 2.0. A site’s final Accessibility Methodology Score is determined by the number of success criteria a The Accessibility State of the Globe measures site fulfills under the three WCAG conformance levels (A, how accessible websites are in the markets where AA, AAA). Siteimprove operates. *According to Dun & Bradstreet The private sector’s Accessibility Score is the average of the 100 most visited pages of the 100 biggest Results World class: 97-100 65 Very good: 91-96 Average Accessibility Public Sector Good: 81-90 Medium: 71-80 Poor: 51-70 71 Average Very poor: 0-50 Accessibility Private Sector Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 15 // Public Organizations Private Organizations Country Average Accessibility Score Country Average Accessibility Score Norway 70 Germany 75 United Kingdom 69 Sweden 75 Spain 68 Netherlands 73 Italy 68 Austria 73 Switzerland 67 Denmark 73 United States 65 Finland 73 Sweden 65 France 72 Netherlands 64 Spain 72 Australia 63 Australia 72 Austria 63 Norway 71 Belgium 63 United States 71 Germany 63 Switzerland 68 Iceland 63 Japan 67 Denmark 62 Belgium 66 Finland 62 United Kingdom 66 France 61 Italy 64 Total 65 Total 71 Private Private Public Public Organization Organization Organization Organization 97 46 98 48 Lowest Score Top Score Lowest Score Top Score 2018: The private sector is currently doing better than the public sector in all markets except in the United Kingdom and Italy. The public sector in general exhibits a poor level of accessibility, which leaves much room for improvement. Only one public organization was found to have a world class level of accessibility. In the private sector, the majority of countries experience a medium level of accessibility. Only one private organization was found to have a world class level of accessibility. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 16 // 6. Human Rights Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 17 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 18 // Spreading the Word and Providing Tools for a Better World Wide Web society cause disabilities, and inaccessible information 6.1 Global Compact Principles 1-2: is one of these barriers. Making information accessible The company should and removing technological barriers are among Siteimprove’s key contributions to human rights and to 1. Support and respect the protection of the Sustainable Development Goals. intentionally declared human rights 2. Ensure that the company does not As Siteimprove continues to grow, so too does our contribute to the violation of human rights commitment to ensuring that we are doing our At Siteimprove, we believe that accessing the absolute best to also grow our efforts to meet our internet is a human right. No one should be company mission of making the web a better place for excluded online irrespective of age, sex, disability, all. race, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic, or other status, which is why Siteimprove works actively One way in which we do this is by hosting various to put digital accessibility on the public as well conferences and informative networking events all over as the private agenda. Creating awareness of the the world that focus on digital accessibility, explaining need for an inclusive web is a key focus area at what and why it’s important, and giving practical advice Siteimprove, and in 2017 we held several web on how to implement it. Such events tie in well with our accessibility conferences around the world and commitment to SDG number 4, Quality Education, and successfully launched our Accessibility Hub with 10, Reducing Inequalities. By educating professionals content on how to make your digital presence more accessible. Read about our efforts within in the public and private sector about how and why to digital human rights and learn how we contribute practice digital accessibility, they can implement and to a better and more inclusive World Wide Web. pass on these learnings to others, ultimately resulting in more accessible websites around the globe and reduced inequalities in society. 6.2 SDGs and Human Rights In 2017, we organized the following activities with digital accessibility at the very top of the agenda: The United Nations Convention on the Rights oo Webinar: Section 508 Refresh: Now What? – of Persons With Disabilities (CRPD) views disabilities Online – February 7 as the result of the interaction between people with impairments and the attitudinal and environmental The free webinar revolved around the U.S. legislation barriers in society. Factors that hinder people’s full and known as Section 508, which is aimed at federal agencies. Our webinar answered key questions about effective participation on an equal basis with others in Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 19 // what the legislation means for businesses and how they about the need for accessibility online, and we provided could become accessible and comply with Section 508 them with tools to start improving immediately. by January 2018. In addition, a “Section 508 Checklist” was made freely available on our website. oo Mandatory Internal Accessibility Training – Copenhagen, Denmark – December 8 oo Webinar: How does the Section 508 refresh impact your local government website In December, our entire development department of redesign? – Online – March 23 80+ people underwent accessibility training to improve the accessibility of the coding we do in-house and make Another free webinar about Section 508, this time in the SIP accessibility. Change starts from within, so since collaboration with Vision Internet and aimed at local we want others to be digitally accessible, our product governments to make sure they were prepared to must be too. comply with Section 508 by January 2018. Partnerships oo Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) Partnering with other organizations is – Copenhagen, Denmark – May 18 also a means to achieve the Sustainable Our contribution to GAAD was an outdoor, freeDevelopment Goals, and goal number 17 to-attend festival with great talks, activities, and specifically calls for partnerships across sectors. In July, entertainment about accessibility, all in central SchoolMessenger launched the Accessibility Resource Copenhagen. Center, a web-based collection of free materials and tools designed to help school districts improve their oo Webinar: Back-to-School: Improving School understanding of web accessibility and improve the Website Accessibility – Online – August 30 accessibility of their schools’ websites. Siteimprove is a key contributor to the resource center, partnering with The free webinar was organized with SchoolMessenger® West Corporation, the provider of SchoolMessenger and was aimed at K-12 schools in the United States with solutions. the purpose of giving schools assistance with making and keeping their websites accessible. Siteimprove has joined the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), the leading group of organizations, oo Web Accessibility Live – Amsterdam, thought leaders, and community members developing Netherlands – September 26 international web standards. As the organizing We organized a full day with accessibility on the agenda body behind the global Web Content Accessibility in Amsterdam, where we discussed the latest EU Web Guidelines (WCAG 2.0), W3C focuses heavily on digital Accessibility Directive and facilitated a panel debate accessibility. These guidelines have become the followed by break-out sessions. The purpose was to baseline for internet regulations around the world, inform the public and private sectors in the Netherlands including in the European Union, the United States, and Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 20 // Australia. Siteimprove is honored to join other global Legal, Information Security, and IT departments. organizations in this initiative and work together with W3C and its members to build a web that is data-rich, Siteimprove’s approach toward GDPR compliance inclusive, and trustworthy. includes, but is not limited to, the technical and organizational measures below: On its quest to make the web a better place for all, Siteimprove is also a member of the International oo Transparency in the processing of data and the Association of Accessibility Professionals and sub-processors used Denmark’s Design for Alle, a branch of Design for All Europe, an organization working toward an inclusive oo Offering customers a Data Processing Agreement Europe for everyone. Siteimprove participates in the to assist them in meeting their GDPR obligations Danish Standards IT Accessibility Committee and oo Implementing principles of privacy by default UNINFO eAccessibility Commission for the development and privacy by design into the development of standards that are instrumental in facilitating access process to the web. oo Enhancing our infrastructure to implement 6.3 Siteimprove’s Google Chrome encryption of data-at-rest and increased access Accessibility Checker controls In February 2017, Siteimprove launched the oo Conducting awareness sessions on what Siteimprove Accessibility Checker, a free extension for personal data is and how it should be treated Google Chrome. The free browser extension is available oo Regularly auditing individual departments for anyone, with or without a Siteimprove subscription, to verify adherence to and identify any new and it enables users to check individual pages for personal data business processes and personal compliance issues. More than 25,000 people have data flows downloaded the extension, which is helping increase equality on the web, since everyone now has the ability oo Increasing vendor security requirements in both to identify and fix accessibility issues on their websites. vetting processes as well as contracts The extension is yet another step in Siteimprove’s fight for making the web more accessible for everyone. For our customers, Siteimprove processes personal data when a customer signs up and uses the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. To be transparent 6.4 Personal Data Protection and assist prospective and current customers in At Siteimprove, we believe that people have the right to understanding how Siteimprove addresses GDPR better online privacy. We’re fully focused on complying obligations, we developed an FAQ, which can be found with the European Union’s General Data Protection on our website. Regulation (GDPR) in order to respect the privacy of our employees and customers. We also offer solutions that Helping Organizations Comply With assist our customers in their GDPR compliance process. GDPR In 2017, we launched our GDPR module, a proactive GDPR Compliance measure in regard to the new General Data Protection Siteimprove is committed to GDPR compliance in both Regulation (GDPR), which goes into effect on May 25, its own internal processing of personal data as well as 2018. Our new module aims to help organizations customer-use of the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. prepare for certain requirements of the new regulation, These compliance efforts have direct executive-team specifically in relation to personal data on websites. oversight and are implemented by the Siteimprove Given the increased data protection that GDPR entails, Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 21 // businesses need to start preparing now to be GDPR-compliant as soon as the regulation takes effect and beyond. Getting an overview of the personal data that organizations have on their websites is the first step. Share Without Being Tracked Siteimprove has a reputation for safeguarding our customers’ data, and we want to promote social engagement without compromising visitors’ privacy. That’s the idea behind our new Share Widget, a product that offers social engagement while protecting personal data. The Share Widget does not collect data from users or their visitors and does not sell visitor data to third parties. This distinguishes us from other content-sharing widget services, which add datacollecting cookies to re-sell to advertisers. Recently, alarms have been raised—particularly in the public sector—that contentsharing services are selling data to third parties. With our newest product, customers can safely implement a share widget that respects privacy. Your Data Is Yours Siteimprove processes data for all our clients through the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. In addition to complying with data privacy regulations, it’s Siteimprove policy not to sell our clients’ data to third parties. Our clients own their data, and we ensure that their data is kept safe and not shared with other entities, commercial or otherwise. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 22 // 6.6 Siteimprove celebrates biggest Global Accessibility Awareness Day in Copenhagen to date! Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 23 // Since 2012, Siteimprove has been a strong supporter of The day’s celebration started with welcoming remarks Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD), an annual by Siteimprove CEO Morten Ebbesen, and was followed advocacy day that aims to get people talking, thinking, by a powerfully insightful keynote speech from and learning about digital accessibility and people with Canadian Jennison Asuncion, who along with Los different disabilities. The global event occurs annually Angeles-based web developer, Joe Devon, founded the on the third Thursday of May. now widely celebrated Global Accessibility Awareness Day initiative. Jennison, who is legally blind, explained In 2015, Siteimprove celebrated the day by holding what led them to launch the day, as well as his personal the world’s largest blind tandem cycling event in thoughts on the future of accessibility. collaboration with the Danish Association for the Blind. This event was a great success and concluded Comedy and advocacy duo Karl Groves and Billy with Siteimprove donating 100 tandem bicycles Gregory, better known by their stage name “The to the members of the community who had visual Viking and The Lumberjack”, showed the audience impairments. that it’s okay to have a laugh and still be serious about accessibility. Never wanting to rest on its laurels, Siteimprove pushed itself to contribute to this day in an even bigger and The Danish Association for the Blind also had a booth more educational way. In 2017, world-famous inventor where participants could learn more about their of the World Wide Web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, along with specific competencies and services. Copenhagenrespected accessibility experts from around the world, based Living IT Lab shared information about their gathered in Copenhagen, Denmark, to celebrate the IT solutions that help companies and organizations sixth annual Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD). ensure accessibility from early user to launch. The well-attended, not-for-profit event took place in Veterans in Motion (VIM), a charity association initiated central Copenhagen on a 16,000m2 man-made island. by a group of injured veterans, also participated Hosted by Siteimprove, the free event was enjoyed by in the day. VIM’s purpose is to utilize activities and over 1,000 members of the public, as well as close-knit experiences to promote personal qualities of wounded members of the global accessibility community and veterans and corresponding injured persons as steps Siteimprove employees from the company’s nine global toward their unfolding as whole people. They set up an offices. exercise field where they demonstrated the activities Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 24 // they do to strengthen their physical form, and also competed against participants in a series of fun exercise contests. Siteimprove’s employees who work with an accessibility focus also had a small tent that day, where they highlighted how Siteimprove’s services can help those working with the web to better identify digital accessibility issues, as well as demonstrated different empathy exercises such as Parkinson’s gloves. A true highlight of the day was the second keynote speech, this time by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web. He shared his exclusive insights into how the idea for the web came about, as well as Directorate-General for Public Administration at the insights into how the medium positively helps those Dutch Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. with disabilities to stay connected. The event ended with a panel session on “The present and future of digital accessibility” chaired by Jennison Asuncion. Among the panelists was Shadi Abou-Zahra, Accessibility Strategy and Technology Specialist from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), an international community led by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, with the mission to lead the web to its full potential. Other panelists included Alejandro Moledo, New Technologies & Innovation Officer for the European Disability Forum, Timothy Creagan, Senior Accessibility Specialist for the US Access Board and Raph de Rooij, Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 25 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 26 // 6.6 Siteimprove’s Human Rights Goals Human Rights Goals achieved 2017 Goals for 2018 Contribute to making the web better and We improved our Accessibility service Continue development of the more inclusive for all by adding new checks and fuller Siteimprove Accessibility tools to descriptions, making it even easier equip private and public web teams to improve your digital accessibility. with the right tools to increase the Furthermore, we launched our free accessibility of their organization’s Accessibility Checker extension for Google website. Chrome. Now everyone can check a page for accessibility issues free of charge. In Continue our support for Global its first year, it has been downloaded by Accessibility Awareness Day in 25,000 users. 2018. GAAD and Siteimprove have a common goal, and we will continue We hosted a number of accessibility to support GAAD in the fight for a conferences and events around the world, more inclusive World Wide Web. including Global Accessibility Awareness Day in Copenhagen and Web Accessibility Live in Amsterdam. We expanded our accessibility team by hiring the best accessibility experts for roles within development, training, and consultancy in the company. Provide free consulting and education The team of accessibility experts Continue to offer expert consultancy provided consulting and education within and education within accessibility digital accessibility for employees and and to Siteimprove employees, customers, as well as for the general customers, the general public, and public. beyond. We continued raising awareness and Continue offering educational educating about accessibility through material on web accessibility on blog posts, social media, webinars, Siteimprove’s Accessibility Hub. meetups for tech professionals, and speeches at conferences. Engage our employees in a volunteering program with the We launched the Siteimprove Accessibility purpose of raising awareness of Hub on our website which features accessibility among youth and resources on digital accessibility for all students. visitors to access. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 27 // Human Rights Goals achieved 2017 Goals for 2018 Form partnerships within accessibility We joined W3C, the world’s leading accesWe will continue to look for sibility body who are behind the WCAG partnerships in the public as well as 2.0. We look forward to contributing to private sector that can support our global accessibility standards, making the mission of making the web more web a better place for all. inclusive to all. We stepped up our membership within the International Association of Accessibility Professionals. The IAAP is a place for accessibility professionals around the world to gather and share experiences and enrich their knowledge of accessibility. We participated in the 10th Session of the UN Convention for the Rights of People with Disabilities (UN COPS 10), emphasizing the need for more dialogue between public and private sectors to ensure no one is left behind in the pursuit of a more accessible world. We’re taking part in the WAI-Tools Project alongside W3C, public entities, and research institutions. The project is part of the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 Programme with the goal of developing accessibility innovations to enhance the field of web accessibility as a whole. We’re a key contributor to the SchoolMessenger Accessibility Resource Center, partnering with West Corporation, the provider of SchoolMessenger solutions. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 28 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 29 // 7. Labor Rights 7.1 Global Compact Principles 3-6 The company should: 3. Support the right to unionize and effectively recognize the right of collective bargaining 4. Support the eradication of all forms of forced labor 5. Support the effective eradication of all forms of child labor 6. Eradicate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 30 // 7.2 Employee Satisfaction Our employees are our biggest asset, and their happiness determines our success. In 2017, we continued to Greatest Improvements Since 2016 work hard to create a safe and healthy workplace that Statement Improvement from 2016 nurtures professional growth and employee satisfaction. Managers avoid favoritism. +11% To keep track of these metrics and to identify areas of Management keeps me +10% improvement, we continue to run employee surveys in informed about important collaboration with external experts. We’re extremely issues and changes. proud to announce that once again in 2017, we were Management delivers on +9% officially recognized as a top workplace by Great Place its promises. to Work® and Star Tribune. Management hires people +8% who fit in well here. Great Place to Work Across the Globe I am offered training or +7% development to further Great Place to Work® is a global research and consulting myself professionally. firm that we’ve been collaborating with for the past three years, and we ran the annual employee satisfaction I feel good about the +8% survey in September 2017. All six European offices and ways we contribute to the our Sydney office were included in the process, and we’re community. happy to see that we’re improving across the globe. By interpreting our highest scoring statements from the Our Copenhagen headquarters took a big step forward Great Place to Work® results, our employees express in the midsize companies category, moving from that: number 34 in 2016 to number 22 in 2017. For the third year running we were also included in the top 10 best oo We think management is approachable, open, workplaces in the IT industry in Denmark. and honest We’re very pleased with our progress, as we improved oo We think Siteimprove is a physically and by 3 % overall compared to 2016. Last year, the survey mentally healthy place to work indicated that the management communication was one area that needed improvement. As the table oo We think everyone is treated fairly regardless of shows, we’ve managed to improve within that area. age, race, sex, sexual orientation, or disability Improving internal communications was a priority oo We are proud to work here and have a strong during the course of 2017, exemplified by the hire of a team spirit global internal communications specialist and several initiatives with the purpose of creating transparency, oo We think Siteimprove is a fun, friendly, and clearer expectations, and better cohesion. welcoming place to work Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 31 // A Top Work Place in Minnesota After a successful pilot project in our Copenhagen office, the LEAD Academy has now been rolled out in all In March, Siteimprove’s North American Headquarters Siteimprove offices. was named Breakout Business of the Year by the Minneapolis Regional Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber noted Siteimprove’s commitment to caring “I have no doubt that the LEAD Academy is for its employees, which was reinforced by the worth it. The investment comes back tenfold. company being recognized as a top workplace by Star I can use what I’ve learned about myself in Tribune. In a survey produced by the consultancy firm the LEAD Academy to become the leader that WorkplaceDynamics for Star Tribune, Siteimprove’s I want to be, and that Siteimprove wants me to be.” Minneapolis office was ranked among the 150 best – Brian Lundkvist, Head of Support, International workplaces in the state of Minnesota. Siteimprove was ranked as the 35th best workplace among mid-size companies in Minnesota. To further professionalize and strengthen professional development in the organization, we have “We are humbled by this wonderful implemented a more formalized process for individual recognition from the Minneapolis Regional performance reviews and personal development plans, Chamber of Commerce. It reinforces not just which each employee will have with their manager the innovative actions we’ve taken to grow once a year. our business but also our vision for workplace culture and community investment.” Employee Involvement – Torben Rytt, CEO of Siteimprove Inc. In our Copenhagen office, a working environment organization has been established, consisting of four employee-elected representatives and the Chief Operating Officer, who has the authority to approve Professional Development all matters raised at work environment committee We strongly believe in providing leadership training meetings. In the past year, they surveyed the office to throughout the organization. Our mandatory leadership analyze the general working conditions and identify development program is the Leadership Exploration areas for improvement. Following the survey, the and Development (LEAD) Academy for employees in working environment representatives arranged for managerial positions. The LEAD Academy consists of a physiotherapist to come by the office and help three modules, lasting two days each, with group work employees with their ergonomic conditions. They are and four individual coaching sessions in between. also focusing on room temperature, sound, and air quality in the office. Furthermore, they are planning The academy leads to sustainable development of a first aid course and looking into the possibility of managers through 360 degree coworker feedback and getting defibrillators at the office. data, and creates awareness of good leadership. The academy provides participants with practical tools On the CSR front, we have CSR representatives in all our that can be used in everyday challenges. We believe offices, who coordinate our local, grassroots-level CSR skilled and highly performing managers lead to highly initiatives that complement our larger, global activities. performing teams, and bringing managers together These activities can include volunteering during work creates synergy between departments. hours, donating to a good cause, or arranging other activities that promote digital accessibility. In Berlin, Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 32 // for instance, our team spent a couple of hours walking and open work environment where you always have around the city to map accessible public places by the opportunity to learn about and from other cultures using the app Wheelmap, helping wheelchair users than your own. identify places where they can eat, use the restroom, visit exhibitions, shop, etc. All 36 nationalities are represented at our Copenhagen headquarters, and as part of our retaining and In December 2017, we organized two stress integration efforts, we started offering Danish classes management seminars in collaboration with an to our employees in 2017. In collaboration with the external consultant from PP Clinic. Employees were language school IA Sprog, we organized Danish encouraged to take the time during their work day language lessons of different levels to our employees to attend the seminars where we focused on stress with the goal of helping them to feel at home in awareness, including what stress actually is, how to Denmark. It has been well received, and even though prevent it, and how to recognize stress symptoms in learning Danish is hard work, our employees appreciate yourself and in your coworkers. The aim is to improve that they’re doing it with their colleagues at the office the overall health of our employees and eradicate instead of at an external school. stress-related illnesses from the workplace. 7.3 Diversity and Anti-Discrimination Equal Opportunities Siteimprove is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We preach inclusion externally in our efforts to make the web a better place, and we find it only natural not to discriminate in our hiring process or in the way we treat employees. We’re very focused on fostering a workplace culture where everyone is included and treated fairly and equally, and we take pride in being a workplace for people of all abilities. We encourage minorities, women, disabled individuals, and veterans to apply for our jobs worldwide. Diversity and Inclusion At Siteimprove in 2017, we had a dedicated team working with education and awareness of the Diversity is one of the key strengths at Siteimprove, as importance of an open environment that supports our employees come from all over the world, and bring and respects diversity. The Siteimprove Diversity all sorts of backgrounds, valuable knowledge, and and Inclusion Group was an employee-led team in experiences to our company. By the end of 2017, our Minneapolis that organized activities that offered nine offices around the world included Siteimprovers cultural learnings and fostered openness and inclusion. from 36 different countries, resulting in a very dynamic The supportive and responsive team ensured that we Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 33 // recognize and support diverse talent internally and oo Siteimprove does not use child labor. Child labor externally. is defined as employing any person younger than the minimum age allowed by law in the In August 2017, we initiated our partnership with the jurisdiction in question. However, in no event community Women in Tech, who we are now working will we knowingly employ anyone younger than with to promote diversity within the IT and technology sixteen (16) years of age. industry. Together, we hope to inspire women to pursue a career in an industry that is traditionally oo Siteimprove maintains an inclusive work dominated by men. We support Women in Tech through environment and achieves excellence a sponsorship agreement, and our goal is to show that by attracting and retaining people of all the IT and tech industry is a great place to work for backgrounds in our workforce. women as well as men. oo Siteimprove prohibits sexual or any other kind Living by the Code of harassment by any person in the workplace or 2017 was also the year where our Code of Conduct while conducting Siteimprove business. took center stage. It was a priority to ensure that all oo Siteimprove strives to eliminate potential employees and new hires were introduced to the hazards from the workplace and to comply with policies in the Code of Conduct and were made aware all applicable occupational safety and health of the process if they experience any violations. Now, laws and standards. the Code of Conduct is an integral part of Siteimprove. Our Code of Conduct includes the following policy for equal opportunities and a safe and inclusive workplace oo Siteimprove helps maintain a safe, healthy, and across all our offices: productive work environment for all Siteimprove employees by: People Are Our Greatest Resource • prohibiting the possession, use, sale, or Siteimprove’s commitment to caring for people is transfer of illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia manifested in the workplace through a variety of on Siteimprove property or time; programs designed to promote and reward individual • prohibiting the conduct of Siteimprove and team achievement. In the end, it is the efforts of business while under the influence of alcohol; our talented and skilled people all over the world that make the success of our business possible. Specifically, • prohibiting any acts that could be perceived in matters of employment: as violent, threatening, degrading or intimidating; and oo It is the policy, practice, and desire of Siteimprove to provide employment • requiring that any instance of drug or alcohol opportunities to all qualified persons on an abuse, violence, or unlawful weapons equal basis. Siteimprove will not discriminate possession be reported to management against any employee or applicant for immediately. employment because of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law in any of the terms or conditions of employment. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 34 // 7.4 Siteimprove’s Labor Rights Goals Labor Rights Goals achieved 2017 Goals for 2018 Ensure a healthy environment for all Siteimprove was officially recognized as a Continue our focus on creating Siteimprove employees great workplace in 2017 by Great Place to a healthy and inspiring working Work®, being ranked as number 8 among environment for all Siteimprovers. IT companies in Denmark. We will track our progress with yet another Great Place to Work® Siteimprove was officially recognized as assessment amongst all Siteimprove a great workplace in 2017 by Star Tribune, employees in the fall of 2018. being ranked as number 35 among midsize companies in Minnesota. The working environment committees will organize courses We established working environment and identify ways to improve our committees in our offices to look after our offices. employees’ best interest and improve our working environment. We will re-introduce our Fitimprove initiative, a month full of fun and We continued to facilitate a healthy exercise in order to get healthier and lifestyle, offering gym membership improve our team spirit. discounts, on-site gym facilities, and healthy food at the office, while engaging in social activities that encourage exercise. Ensure that employees, and applicants, After rolling out our Code of Conduct in Continue to provide equal rights to have equal opportunities May 2017, we have made it an integrated all employees and applicants. part of the employee mindset. Increase awareness about We continue to hire employees based Siteimprove as a workplace for on their skills and do not discriminate everyone and appeal to a diverse against any applicant for employment group of candidates. because of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, ethnicity, Contribute to more diversity in the IT age, sexual orientation, disability, marital and tech industry. status, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law in any of the terms or conditions of employment. We launched a partnership with the community Women in Tech. Together we work to inspire women to pursue a career in tech and help them succeed in the industry. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 35 // Labor Rights Goals achieved 2017 Goals for 2018 Continue our focus on the well-being and We have strengthened our focus Continue to improve satisfaction of our employees on internal communications and communications and transparency transparency. The monthly staff internally by introducing new and meetings in Siteimprove’s headquarters clearer communication channels and are recorded and distributed to all involving employees. Siteimprove offices. Continue to improve our onboarding, We have improved our onboarding align it across the company, and process by putting a clear process in track employees’ satisfaction with place to make all new employees feel at the onboarding process. home here as quickly as possible. Our onboarding is continuously optimized based on employee feedback. We have introduced a leadership development program to improve the opportunities for professional development in the company. A non-discriminatory bonus plan Each and every Siteimprover contributes In future years, the company bonus to the success and rapid growth of the may be paid as determined in the company. For that reason, every fulland sole discretion of the board of part-time employee hired before 2017 directors was eligible to receive the 2017 company bonus based on the company’s 2016 results. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 36 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 37 // 8. Environment Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 38 // 8.1 Global Compact Principles 7-9: The company should 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Take initiatives to promote increased environmental responsibilities 9. Encourage the development and dispersion of environmentally friendly technologies to an increasing extent can be recycled, or that 8.2 Siteimprove’s they can be disposed in an environmentally safe Environmental Policy manner The Environmental Policy applies to all Siteimprove oo Cooperating with authorities on the branch offices and defines the overall environmental establishment/running of facilities when new work within the company. The policy is directly related legislation takes effect or better technology to the principles of the Global Compact and to live up to becomes available the principles we take the following actions: We exercise caution in relation to environmental 8.3 Minimizing Our Carbon Footprint challenges by: As a software-as-a-service company, we are concerned oo Striving to be among the most environmentally with the amount of energy used to cool our data conscious businesses in our industry servers. As such, we have chosen a data center that meets our demands regarding sustainable energy oo Ensuring that all our providers and suppliers consumption and optimal data security. demonstrate environmental consciousness oo Ensuring that our internal processes are Our data center, Interxion, has received multiple environmentally compatible environment awards. They support and consume energy from sustainable and low carbon sources to the We take steps to promote environmental greatest extent practical, and 90% of their power comes responsibility by: from sustainable sources, including water, solar, and oo Increasing the engagement and environmental wind. consciousness among employees Interxion operates with innovative technology that utilizes groundwater as a cooling agent for the oo Ensuring that our facilities comply with the servers. The system makes it possible to store cold highest environmental standards winter air 70 meters below ground and utilize it for continuous cooling in the summer. This ensures We support the development and growth of the right temperature for the servers at all times, environmentally friendly initiatives by: whilst minimizing the need for traditional cooling compressors. oo Ensuring that materials from end-of-life products Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 39 // Interxion’s continuous focus on optimizing their energy efficiency, reducing carbon emissions, and cutting waste reassures us that they are the right data center for Siteimprove. 8.4 Recycling and Reducing Waste Employees are aware of the importance of recycling and successfully use dedicated bins for collecting paper, cans, and bottles in order for it to be recycled. At our global meet up in May 2017, we eliminated the use of plastic bottles, as all 450 participants received a reusable water “pack” at the beginning of the threeday event. Clean, Danish tap water was the only water source supplied at the event, and the refillable water packs enabled participants to store and carry the water with them, eliminating the need for plastic bottles and cups. 8.5 Siteimprove’s Environment Goals Environment Goals achieved 2017 Goals for 2018 Use environmentally responsible We continued our collaboration with We will continue our collaboration with suppliers environmentally responsible data green primary suppliers. centers. Encourage and practice We included our environmental policy in We will continue to encourage employees environmental consciousness our Employee Handbook. and external stakeholders to consider the internally environment in their activities and their use We continue to improve our efforts of resources. within recycling both internally at our offices and externally at events. In 2017, we have been focusing on eliminating waste and encouraging recycling at our events. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 40 // 9. AntiCorruption As a global company, Siteimprove follows the strictest 9.1 Global Compact Principle 10 ethical and business standards of behavior, regardless of the leniency of local standards. Complying with 10. The company should work against all the Code of Conduct is based on the use of good forms of corruption including extortion judgment and seeking guidance when questions arise. and bribery If employees are in doubt about anything related to corruption and bribery, they are encouraged to contact the legal department, who has the ability to advise 9.2 Corruption Risks and the Code of on the correct course of action. If employees witness Conduct any breaches or suspect violations of the companyDespite working in a low-risk market, we have wide Code of Conduct, they must contact the legal implemented a company-wide code of conduct, department or reach out to Human Resources. The a document addressing the issues of bribery and consequence of violating the Code of Conduct can be a corruption. Reading and complying with the document warning, or termination. is mandatory for all Siteimprove employees as our global Code of Conduct describes what Siteimprove Finally, Siteimprove always advises vendors of the employees can and cannot do when they deal with requirement to adhere to the Code of Conduct when suppliers and customers. working with us. If vendors fail to comply, they face the possibility of losing our business. Siteimprove also In the corporate Code of Conduct, the section respects and adheres to customer and supplier policies “Building Business Relationships” states that “Honest to the extent that they do not contradict our own dealing with customers and suppliers is essential to policies. Siteimprove’s relationships. Giving or receiving any kickbacks, bribes, or similar payments of any sort is prohibited.” Furthermore, it informs employees of their responsibility in their dealings with government employees, to whom they are not allowed to offer any gifts, gratuity, or things of value, unless pre-approved by the legal department. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 41 // 9.3 Siteimprove’s Anti-Corruption Goals Anti-corruption Goals achieved 2017 Goals for 2018 Prevent all forms of bribery and We introduced the Code of Conduct, Continue our integration of the Code of corruption in the company which includes rules for business Conduct in the mindset of all employees and behavior and our guide to building continue doing business free of corruption. business relationships. All employees and vendors are made aware of our Code of Conduct. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 42 // 10. Local Siteimprove Initiatives 10.1 Berlin Mapping the Accessibility of Berlin – July Our team in Berlin conducted a “mapping” of their city using WheelMap, an interactive online map where users can tag public places as wheelchair accessible or inaccessible. We managed to mark 160 places in the vicinity of our office, including restaurants, public bathrooms, shops, and attractions. It was not only a great teambuilding activity, but was also an opportunity to promote and understand accessibility better amongst the team and the community. 10.2 Minneapolis Staff Provide Vision Guide Services at Local Art Museum – July On July 14, 2017, 60 Siteimprovers from our Minneapolis office provided vision guidance services to the clients of a local blind services agency, Vision Loss Resources (VLR). After picnicking, Siteimprove staff escorted VLR clients on guided tours of the Walker Art Center and its renovated sculpture garden. Tour staff and admissions were generously donated by the Walker Art Center for the event. For over a century, VLR has been the largest provider of services to the Minnesota low-vision community. Since 2000, they have provided 14,000 people with services like in-home visits, counseling, teaching independent living skills, and support to families and caregivers. Halloween with AccessAbility – October Last Halloween, the Siteimprove CSR team teamed up with AccessAbility, a local organization that helps persons with disabilities foster interviewing skills, find jobs, and attend fun events like the Haunted Halloween Casino at the Minneapolis office. People came to the Minneapolis office to celebrate and try their hands at casino games, enjoy spooky punch, and treats. Even the blackjack dealer made sure that no participants walked away empty handed! Both Siteimprovers and the folks from AccessAbility loved the event and ended the night full of treats…and only a few tricks. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 43 // Goodwill Clothing Drive – November Over the course of one week, more than 60 Siteimprovers donated a total of 5,207 items to Goodwill. We posted sign-up sheets for those who wanted to participate in the drive, and then broke them up into randomized teams. Starting Monday, November 13, Siteimprovers were able to donate items into designated team bins until the morning of Friday, November 17. Throughout the week, staff counted items and kept running tallies for a little bit of friendly competition. By the end of the week, over 5,000 items were donated, and a Goodwill truck came to pick up the filled bins. 10.3 Toronto Meals for Youth with The Yonge Street Mission – September In September, our Siteimprovers in Toronto took time out of their day to help out the staff of The Yonge Street Mission, a charity that provides help, support, and encouragement to Toronto’s most vulnerable. They provide compassionate and non-judgmental programs free of charge to homeless and street-involved youth between 16 and 24 years of age. On the day, we helped prepare and serve warm nutritious meals for 80-100 less-fortunate youth. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 44 //
