Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Contents. 1 ÅF at a glance 2 The year in brief 4 Comments from the CEO 6 Objectives and outcomes 8 Value creation Strategic focus 10 Vision and strategy 14 Introduction to sustainability Growth – Grow and lead 18 Powerful drivers 20 Market trends and business review 22 Expansion and growth in selected niches 22 Acquisitions for the year Value creation – Increased value for clients 25 Developed business model 25 Unique specialist expertise 26 World-class sustainable solutions Operations – Operational Excellence 31 Clearer organisational structure 32 Financial control 32 Pricing and purchase of consulting services 32 Ethical undertakings Employees – Attractive employer 34 Leadership development 36 Commitment and development 37 Our employer brand 38 Recruitment and induction 38 Diversity and inclusion 38 Our core values ÅF as an investment 40 Investment case 42 The share 44 Administration report 48 Risks 51 Financial statements and notes 90 Auditor’s report 94 Sustainability notes ABOUT THE REPORT 104 Auditor’s statement 106 Chairman’s report Reviewed financial 107 Corporate governance report information 112 Board of Directors General review of 114 Group management sustainability information 116 Five-year summary The scope of the sustainability report, which also covers ÅF’s statutory sus118 Alternative performance measures tainability report as required by Chap119 Definitions ter 6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, is found on page 94. It follows the 120 Calender 2018 guidelines in GRI G4, Core level, and is externally reviewed. Cover photo: Andreas Almstedt, Lighting Designer, and Marie Lennartsson, Team Leader ÅF is an engineering and design company within the fields of energy, industry and infrastructure. We create sustainable solutions for the next generation through talented people and technology. We are based in Europe and our business and clients are found all over the world. ÅF at a glance. WHO WE ARE OUR VISION OUR MISSION OUR CORE VALUES We are Providing leading solutions We create Brave for generations to come sustainable Devoted engineering and Team players ÅF – Making Future. design solutions WE CREATE SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS IN INFRASTRUCTURE INDUSTRY ENERGY DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Buildings Manufacturing Heat & power Experience design Road & rail Automotive development Hydropower IT solutions Project management Food & pharma Renewable energy Embedded systems Water & environment Process industry Nuclear power Systems management Architecture & design Product development Transmission & Industrial engineering distribution Technical services The divisional structure is new since 1 January 2018 and aims to support our new strategy. Read more about our strategy on page 10. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 1 THE YEAR IN BRIEF Highlights. With its new strategy, Future ÅF, ÅF strengthens its ÅF has a structured approach to executive recruitposition as an engineering and design company. The ment and leadership development, and during the financial targets have also been reformulated and the year it implemented a new leadership programme for organisational structure adapted to deliver according middle management: the ÅF Leadership Programme. to the new focus. ÅF’s New Immigrated Engineers project is develÅF grows both organically and through acquisitions. oping well and by the end of 2017 approximately 60 During the year, ÅF acquired 12 businesses that have trainees had done internships at ÅF, with most them total annual sales of SEK 600 million. The acquisitions then being offered employment. strengthen ÅF’s total offering and constitute a solid ÅF’s sustainability efforts are giving results, as can platform for future growth. be seen from the improvements in SBPI, our measure­ Clients choose ÅF as a long-term partner for ment tool that defines ÅF’s sustainability perforchallenging assignments. For example, SKF, Telia, mance. The tool can be used by other companies and FMV, AstraZeneca and Volvo Cars entrusted work industries to measure sustainability performance. to ÅF during the year. On Universum’s career barometer among young practising engineers, ÅF came in second place after IKEA. Emma Andersson, Future talent at ÅF and student at KTH Royal Institute of Technology 2 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 9,865 KEY RATIOS Net sales, SEK m 2017 12,658 2016 11,070 Number of employees 2017 EBITA excl. items affecting comparability, SEK m 1,117 996 101 EBITA margin excl. items affecting comparability, % 8.8 9.0 EBITA, SEK m 1,027 992 EBITA margin, % 8.1 9.0 Number of countries with Profit after net financial items, SEK m 957 923 projects Basic earnings per share, SEK 9.58 9.32 33 Net debt, SEK m 2,631 2,298 Net debt/EBITDA, rolling 12 months, times 2.3 2.1 Net debt-equity ratio, % 52.7 48.9 Total number of employees 9,865 9,133 Number of countries with Capacity utilisation, % 77.6 77.6 ÅF offices NET SALES, SEK M EBITA 1 , SEK M AND % DIVIDEND PER SHARE, SEK SEK m % 15,000 1,500 15 5 4 10,000 1,000 10 3 2 5,000 500 5 1 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172 1) Excl. items affecting comparability 2) Proposed dividend NET SALES BY DIVISION 1 SALES BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT Industry 34% Infrastructure 19% Infrastructure 39% Buildings 17% Digital Solutions 16% Automotive 16% Energy 11% Energy 14% Food & pharma 8% Process industry 6% Manufacturing 6% Telecom 5% Defence 4% Other 5% 1)  ivisional structure as of 1 January D 2018. Pro forma figures for 2017. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 3 COMMENTS FROM THE CEO JONAS GUSTAVSSON It has been an exciting year, influenced by strong global trends and demand from clients for our sustainable solutions, but there has also been an increase in competition. In 2017 we saw the market, our clients and ourselves from a new perspective. It starts with a new perspective. The global trends in smart cities, industrial digitalibut it is all about daring to apply a new approach and zation, future mobility and a changing energy market having our values permeate everything we do as brave, move development in society forward. At the same devoted team players. time, these trends are strong motivators for our business. ÅF has unique skills and rapid development Sustainability is the core provides an opportunity for a company like ÅF to get The new mission We create sustainable engineering ahead. Society’s needs for sustainable solutions have and design solutions establishes sustainability as the never been greater and drive customer demand for core of our offering. At ÅF we have nearly 10,000 emour collective expertise. ployees who contribute to sustainable social development through our client assignments. We continue to A new focus adhere to the Global Compact’s principles for human This past year has been an exciting one during which rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corruption, we have done a careful analysis of our strategy and which form the foundation for our positions in sustainthe company’s potential. Historically, ÅF has develability. We are also working on better ways to measure oped well but owing to the trends in the market and sustainability efforts based on the digital measuring the increase in demands from our clients, it was time tool SBPI, developed by ÅF together with the Swedish for a new focus. The journey that is largely still ahead research institute RISE. of us is to add value to our services by offering more projects, solutions, concepts and products while we An attractive employer develop our service business. We have unique skills in When the economy is doing well, one of the challengengineering, design and digital solutions that come es is to attract the best employees. There is a high into their own when we combine them in sustainable level of competition for talent, particularly in the field solutions directed at industry, infrastructure and the of digitalization. We have made targeted efforts to energy sector. The new strategy strengthens ÅF’s strengthen our brand, partly by collaborating with position as an engineering and design company. interesting clients on challenging assignments, and partly by structured leadership and employee develStrengthened competitiveness opment efforts. We are proud to have been nominatWe are experiencing fast-paced change and have ed once again by civil engineers in Sweden as one of carried out a series of initiatives in line with the new the most attractive employers. strategy to strengthen our competitiveness. We are growing and strengthening our position in our core Market trend markets and internationally in selected niches. We During the year, demand for our services has been continue to have a high rate of growth and acquired good with certain variations. The industrial economy 12 businesses during the year, which strengthen our is still strong in Sweden, which is reflected in demand position further. The organisational structure has from the automotive, forestry and food industries, been realigned to make us even more distinct and as well as the paper and pulp industry. Demand from fleet-footed, and to form the foundation for business the mining and steel industries continues to increase, decisions to be taken at the right level as well as to but from low levels. Investments in infrastructure in stimulate more international growth. Our new business Sweden and Norway are still at a high level, but there areas are designed to develop co-ordinated end-tois a shift in the market from a few major infrastructure end solutions and concepts that can be sold to many projects to small and medium projects. The energy clients. The hard work has barely begun, and it presmarket is still weak in Europe, while the shift to more ents challenges in terms of both business sense and fossil-free energy production is creating greater company culture. We have set up the new frameworks, demand in areas such as cogeneration plants based 4 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017  e are experien­ W cing fast-paced change and have carried out a series of initiatives in line with the new strategy to strengthen our competitiveness. on renewable fuels. The digitalization that is currently year was related to infrastructure operations with the under way is increasing, leading to sustained demand acquisition of AF-Toscano at the end of 2016. for embedded systems and digitalization in the industrial, The Technology Division continues to grow with energy and infrastructure markets. good profitability. Demand for the division’s services is strong, with clients increasingly seeking partnerships A positive trend in all divisions with suppliers capable of delivering long-term end-toThe Industry Division continues to show good growth end solutions with customised business and supplier and stable profitability. Digital solutions have become models. The offering has been strengthened by acquia key component in ÅF’s offer and we see increased sitions in service design and user experience. demand for industrial digitalization and automation solutions. Demand from the automotive industry conFinancial position and outlook tinues to be strong. A strong year-end meant that EBITA, excluding items The Infrastructure Division is experiencing growth affecting comparability, amounted to SEK 1,117 miland showing a good level of profitability. Demand in lion, an increase of 12 percent. These results, togeththe road and rail segment continues to be positive, as er with the new strategic direction and increasing is the architecture and property segment where ÅF demand for ÅF’s solutions, form the foundation for operates mainly in commercial and public properties. continued profitable growth in 2018. Several acquisitions were made during the year to strengthen our position in architecture and design. Stockholm in March 2018 The International Division ends the year on a strong note. In Switzerland, the division was commissioned Jonas Gustavsson to consult with the government on preparation of its President and CEO National Energy Strategy 2050. Growth during the ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 5 OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES ÅF creates value for shareholders by creating profitable growth. When ÅF’s new strategy was launched, the financial targets were reformulated. Sustainability goals involving three areas of focus have been established for some time and are monitored in SBPI. A clear set of objectives. Financial targets Focus on sustainability ÅF’s new strategy will help to maintain strong growth Developing sustainable solutions, conducting responand increase profitability in an increasingly competsible business and being an attractive employer are itive market. The financial targets were reformulated the three areas that are most important to maintainto apply over a business cycle. ing a long-term, sustainable business. We monitor the – Annual growth of 10 percent. The target includes goals annually with SBPI, which is a tool developed by add-on acquisitions. Larger platform acquisitions ÅF’s specialists together with RISE Research Instiwill also be made. tutes of Sweden. – An EBITA margin of 10 percent over a business cycle. – Net debt in relation to EBITDA of 2.5. Henrik Kjellson, Manager, Digital Business 6 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Financial targets and outcomes Growth EBITA margin2 Net debt 10% annual growth including 10% over a business cycle. Net debt in relation to add-on acquisitions. Platform EBITDA of 2.5 acquisitions will be on top. % % times 50 12 3.0 40 8.8 2.3 8 30 1.5 20 14.3 4 10 0 0 0 20131 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1) G  rowth in 2013 was 6.9% excluding 2) E xcl. items affecting comparability the acquisition of Epsilon. Sustainability performance The SBPI tool measures ÅF’s sustainability performance and defines how sustainable we are based on measuring points from the three focus areas. ÅF’s sustainability performance for focus areas is found below. Read more on page 16. 2017, 55 2016, 48 2017, 68 2016, 67 2017, 65 2016, 64 Sustainable solutions Responsible business Attractive employer – Engineering and design solu– Long-term profitability. – Increased employee tions that help achieve the UN’s – Increased client satisfaction. satisfaction. 17 Sustainable Development – Halve ÅF’s carbon dioxide – Leadership must feature a high Goals. emissions by 2030 using 2016 degree of confidence in line as base year. managers. – ÅF’s risk assessment check– Increased proportion of women list must always be filled in for in the workforce: 30 percent at new clients, deals and markets all levels by 2020. before a tender is issued. – Zero tolerance of discrimination. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 7 VALUE CREATION This is how we create value. our operations Resources Our business model and offering... Structural capital – Uniquely wide-reaching engineering and design expertise – Experience collected from different industries and clients PRODUCTS – Project references and knowledge bank that is accessible to all employees CONCEPTS – ÅF’s brand stands for engineering expertise, design, quality, experience SOLUTIONS and innovation – Strong employer brand, which is attractive to new employees SERVICE PROJECTS Human capital – Approximately 10,000 employees with a unique set of collective skills and experience – 30,000 engineers and specialists We create sustainable solutions in: in ÅF’s skills network – Sustainability in focus – compulsory training for all employees – Focus on skills development by means of assignments and ÅF Academy – Leadership development – Gender equality and diversity INFRASTRUCTURE ENERGY – Buildings – Heat & power Social capital and relational capital – Long-term, active owners – Road & rail – Hydropower – Project management – Renewable energy – Strong, long-lasting client relationships – Water & environment – Nuclear power – Good relationships with research – Architecture & design – Transmission & distribution organisations, universities and institutes of technology – Active sustainability work Financial capital – Loans and equity – Strong cash flow and balance sheet INDUSTRY DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Manufactured capital – Manufacturing – Experience design – Over 150 offices around the world – Automotive development – IT solutions – System support for all processes – Food & pharma – Embedded systems Energy consumption – Process industry – Systems management – Office heating and travel to clients – Product development – Industrial engineering – Technical services 8 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 created value ...meet society’s current needs Stakeholders Smart cities and Clients infrastructure – Profitable, efficient and sustainable – Sustainable urban development solutions for strong competitiveness – Smart buildings and lower costs – More efficient transport – Proportion of large projects and end-to-end solutions constitutes approximately 60% of net sales Employees – Personal development and career opportunities Future – In-house projects provide the mobility opportunity to work with ÅF colleagues – Safer traffic – Proportion of women is 25% – Lower environmental impact – Total number of training hours: 291,638 – Autonomous vehicles – Salaries, benefits and other personnel costs (excl. employer contributions): SEK 5,992 million Shareholders – Proposed dividend: SEK 5.00/share – Total B share return: 11% Industrial – Positive result (EBITA): SEK 1,027 million digitalization – Optimisation of logistics Society and process flows – Strengthened industrial competitiveness – Increased productivity – Well-functioning infrastructure – Reduced resource and – More sustainable energy recovery energy consumption and use – Direct and indirect creation of jobs around the world – Income tax and employer contributions: SEK 1,491 million Changing energy – Reduced climate emissions markets – Gradual shift away from fossil fuels – Storage possibilities for energy – Reliable transmission and distribution Reinvestment through increased experience, references, development and growth ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 9 VISION AND STRATEGY Future sustainable engineering and design solutions create exciting opportunities for ÅF’s clients – and are crucial to the development of their business models, services and products. Our unique collective experience enables us to guide our clients through the enormous technology shifts that are occurring in infrastructure, industry and energy. The strategy takes ÅF to a strengthened position as an international engineering and design company that adds value through sustainable solutions. The power to change. Our transformation In recent years ÅF has performed well and enjoyed skills in engineering and design. Developing our workprofitable growth. The market is becoming increasing practices and how we do business takes ÅF to a ingly competitive, however, especially in traditional new position as an engineering and design company engineering and consulting company services. providing sustainable solutions to clients in Europe and around the globe. From a traditional local engineering and consulting company... Solutions for the strongest trends By developing the current business model, ÅF will go from Our solutions measure up to some of today’s stronbeing a traditional local engineering and consulting gest trends: smart cities and infrastructure, future company, undertaking projects and providing traditional mobility, industrial digitalization and a changing enerconsulting services, to a new competitive position. gy market. All of them are known as disruptive trends, trends that overturn traditional business models. ...to an international engineering and design company Our sustainable solutions for the infrastructure, ÅF has a unique set of collective skills and experience industry and energy markets make ÅF an even more in engineering and design that is in demand in the attractive business partner. We inspire and guide market. The business model is strengthened by our our clients to embrace new design and technology. increased focus on undertaking projects and conWe also have a proactive approach when it comes to ceptual solutions where we combine cross-functional building relationships and delivering long-term value. 10 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 WHO WE ARE HOW WE WIN OUR VISION GROWTH DRIVERS OUR STRATEGY Growth Providing leading solutions Smart cities International for generations to come and infrastructure expansion into Future leading positions ÅF – Making Future. mobility Value creation Business model Industrial shift to deliver digitalization higher value OUR CORE VALUES OUR MISSION Changing Operations We are energy markets Operational We create Brave excellence sustainable Devoted engineering People Team players Best in class and design solutions people practices ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 11 VISION AND STRATEGY Vision Our mission What role is ÅF to play in the future? Our vision – Sustainability is at the heart of everything we do. “Providing leading solutions for generations to come. This is where design and engineering create basic ÅF – Making Future” provides the answer. For decades value and support us in our transition to becoming we have seen the benefits of bringing together peoan international supplier of sustainable solutions. ple, technology and design. We believe that the future The mission “We create sustainable engineering and is bright. It is all about seizing the right opportunities design solutions” increases the value of deliveries and entering strategic collaborations. Our ambition is to our infrastructure, industry and energy clients. By to take the lead by providing solutions with a focus combining the unique skills that we have drawn toon sustainability. gether in engineering and design, we support them in Our brand promise – Making Future – describes our their efforts to seize new opportunities. Our skills and ambition and ability to create long-term sustainable constant learning enable us to adapt very quickly to solutions. It inspires and challenges our workforce prevailing trends. to make progress and achieve even more. To lead and seize new opportunities, we must challenge old conventions, embrace new ways of thinking and see beyond today’s challenges. T  he new strategy is to ensure that we utilise ÅF’s full potential and that we are competitive and able to grow with profitability for many years to come. Closest to the camera, Amir Nazari, Diversity Coach 12 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy New core values ÅF’s strategy is to ensure that we are competitive Our core values help us to make the right decisions, and that we utilise the company’s full potential to to act sensibly and to treat one another with care and grow with profitability. At the same time, we must respect. They support us in our strategy for expansion continue to strengthen our appeal and to retain our into new markets and solutions. Our three core values best employees. are also appropriate for ÅF’s ambition to have the The strategy is based on four priorities: growth, very best employees and are as follows: value creation, operations and people: Brave  rowth G We think big and beyond convention to increase International expansion must enable ÅF to take up value and make an impact. Challenging each other leading positions in selected areas. We will continue and making bold decisions. Always taking a stand for to grow in our core markets of Sweden, Norway, Denwhat we believe in. mark, Finland, Switzerland and the Czech Republic. We also strive to be an international leader through D  evoted several selected niches and segments, such as reWe are a unique mix of competence and we are all search and development in the automotive sector, passionate within our fields. Sharing our expertise to food and pharmaceuticals, advanced manufacturing, make a difference. Driven by our curiosity to grow and the process industry and lighting design. The emphasis learn more. is on: – Geographical expansion in core countries. Team players – International growth in selected niches. We collaborate across borders to seize new opportu– Expansion in international investment projects. nities. To challenge, support and bring out the best in Read more on page 18. each other. We believe in the power of differences. Value creation An organisational structure that provides support ÅF’s business model is formed so that we can add ÅF’s organisational structure and governance are value for our clients. This means that we develop our adapted to be able to carry out the new strategy in client offering and provide several conceptual solufull. The new simplified organisational structure has tions and concepts, together with selected products. been in place since 1 January 2018. It has four interThe emphasis is on: national divisions: Infrastructure, Industry, Energy and –  Increase share of projects and solutions. Digital Solutions. The divisions in turn consist of 21 –  Cross ÅF solutions to meet global growth drivers. business areas with full responsibility for their client –  Invest in and develop concepts and accounts and profitability, and for implementing the selected products. strategy. This will produce clear results. –  Optimisation of professional services. ÅF’s governance and organisational structure Read more on page 24. in selected core markets is being strengthened to ensure that the strategic focus is followed, that the Operations market develops and that there is co-ordination. In At ÅF we strive for Operational Excellence. The Norway, which is ÅF’s second-largest market after organisational structure has been simplified and Sweden, a country-based organisation was estabfinancial control has been adjusted to create distinct lished with a country director who has been part of responsibility for profitability, different client segments Group management since October 2017. and international growth, and to increase the number of projects and end-to-end solutions. The emphasis is on: – Simplified and focused organisation. – Adjusted financial steering. – Optimised pricing and sourcing. – Ethical commitment. Read more on page 30. People ÅF must be an attractive employer by continuing to attract and recruit new employees while focusing on developing and retaining the employees who already work for us today. The emphasis is on: – Leadership development. – People engagement and development. – Employer branding. – Recruitment and onboarding. – Diversity and inclusion. Read more on page 34. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 13 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability constitutes the cohesive link in ÅF’s new strategy: everything we do and deliver must be based on sustainability. We are currently improving the framework for putting that very concept into all our client assignments. Choices that make a difference. Michael Krarup, Architect, Gottlieb Paludan Architects Stina Tang, Sustainability Consultant 14 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Three focus areas ÅF has already established three focus areas for its sustainability efforts. These are the areas that are most important to our maintaining a long-term, sustainable business: Sustainable solutions Responsible business Attractive employer ÅF’s operations provide Like all other companies, Our workforce is ÅF’s most unique opportunities to influÅF needs to have policies important asset. We thereence societal development in and procedures for how its fore need to constantly a more sustainable direction. business is run to condevelop our efforts to be In our assignments is where tribute value to society in an attractive employer, so we make the biggest impact. a positive way. This may we can retain our existing The growth engine in ÅF’s involve fighting corruption employees and attract new business is providing engior minimising environmentalent. Our new strategy neering and design solutions tal impact. As we continue clarifies who we are, what in areas where there are chalto increase our activities we aim to achieve and what lenges to be met from the in complex markets, there we have to offer current global trends: an increasing is a risk that we may come and future employees. It is population, expanding cities, across more human rights our employees who make increased consumption, scarabuses. This increases ÅF successful and we pass city of resources and rising demands on ÅF to bolster that on to our clients and emissions. We offer soluefforts in this area so we do owners. tions that lead to resource not maintain structures that efficiency, sustainable cities, violate the equal value of all digitalized industries, as well people. as contributing to the energy transition. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 15 SUSTAINABILITY 63 ÅF’s total sustainability performance index Measure sustainability If sustainability initiatives are to produce results, they need to be measured and monitored. At ÅF we have developed the digital tool Sustainable Business Performance Indicators (SBPI), which measures sustainability scientifically. Sixty measuring points The SBPI tool measures our sustainability performance and defines how sustainable we are based on measuring points from the three established sustainability focus areas: Sustainable solutions, Responsible business conduct and being an Attractive employer. About 60 measuring points that are important for our business were analysed and the result showed our total sustainability performance on a scale of 0 to 100. The measured values are comparable from year to year with measurement starting in 2016. The result for 2017 was 63, an improvement from 2016’s 59. Broken down by focus area, Sustainable solutions scored 55 (48), Responsible business 68 (67) and Attractive employer 65 (64). It is possible to follow the sustainability performance both in overall terms and in detail. The model also highlights the connection between various activities and how they contribute to our sustainability performance. For the sustainable solutions focus area, our contribution to the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals is followed up by having all employees who were responsible for an assignment use the development goals to analyse and evaluate their biggest assignment in terms of annual sales. This year 15 percent of ÅF’s total sales were included in the analysis. Increases transparency SBPI was developed by ÅF’s specialists in sustainability, compliance and digitalization in close collaboration with RISE Research Institutes of Sweden. The aim has been to increase transparency within our own activities and to ensure that sustainability efforts measure up to the business strategy. SBPI is based on measurement methods from international research on human perception and traditional measuring techniques. The tool can also be deployed in different industries and can be used to monitor entire operations as well as individual activities. ÅF is currently working actively to market and sell SBPI primarily to existing major clients so that they can also start to measure sustainability more scientifically. During the year we noticed an increased interest in this as more and more clients specifically asked after suitable measuring tools in this area. Read more in our sustainability notes on page 94. 16 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights – There has been a rise in employees’ general awareness of how we contri­ bute sustainable value through our assignments. – There has also been a rise in the cli­ ent’s assessment of to which extent ÅF has contributed with sustainable value through our assignments. – Our emissions associated with energy consumption and business travel are slowly moving in the right direction. – Sustainable management of pur­ chasing also shows a positive trend. – The gap between men and women taking parental leave has been reduced. – The New Immigrated Engineers initiative has been a success. Helena Paulsson, Head of Urban Development ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 17 GROWTH ÅF continues to grow in its current core markets with a combined offer in infrastructure, industry, energy and digitalization. We aim to become an international leader in several niches and segments such as research and development in the automotive sector, advanced manufacturing, food and pharmaceuticals, the process industry and lighting design. Grow and lead. Powerful drivers Four disruptive trends – arising from increasing globalisation, urbanisation and a focus on increased sustainability – are powerful drivers for ÅF. Smart cities and infrastructure, future mobility, industrial digitalization and a changing energy market are all needed to help create a more sustainable society. ÅF’s unique expertise in design and digital solutions, combined with its in-depth specialist knowledge of infrastructure, industry and energy, enables us to respond to these trends with robust cross-­f unctional solutions. 18 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Smart cities and infrastructure Future mobility Today, more than half of the world’s population lives The way we transport and travel is changing. The in urban areas, and by 2050 this is expected to rise to digital revolution allows for completely new solutions 70 percent. It is a huge mass movement that is most that mean increased convenience, lower environmenevident in the emerging countries. tal impact and safer traffic. In the automotive inThese rapidly growing cities are making the need dustry, a rapid transformation is currently under way, to reduce our carbon footprint and improve resource with electrification and technology for autonomous management and quality of life even more urgent. vehicles being quickly developed for both individuals The factors that affect people’s everyday lives, like and logistics companies. The merging of the logistics better housing, effective public transport, cleaner air, sector and the automotive industry is increasingly less noise and improved lighting, are all key drivers evident. Technology development drives the growth of towards a sustainable society. a sharing economy that changes the ownership and increases the capacity utilisation of the vehicles. Read about our offer on page 26. Read about our offer on page 28. Industrial digitalization Industrial companies worldwide recognise the inChanging energy markets creasingly tougher competition. Operators from Global electricity production is expected to increase countries with emerging industries are changing conby around 70 percent by 2040 due to a growing popuditions and putting pressure on prices in many seclation and emerging economies. A gradual shift away tors, which generates a need to streamline processes from fossil fuels to other power generation sources is and production. It also motivates companies to move being stimulated by global climate goals, smart cities forward in the value chain, from manufacturing prodand future mobility. Achieving the necessary change ucts to also delivering services. The availability of will require new and reliable transmission and distrilarge amounts of data also creates new opportunities bution networks, energy storage systems and digital for sharper analyses and enhanced business intelsolutions. The energy supply is shifting from mostly ligence. The prerequisite for all this is digitalization, large-scale power generation to a mixture of energy which is crucial to industry’s competitiveness. deliveries, such as small-scale solar and large-scale hydropower, to ensure a sustainable energy supply. Read about our offer on page 27. Smart grids become a requirement and increasingly more participants move from being consumers to being prosumers, that is, consumers will produce their own electricity to a larger extent. Read about our offer on page 29. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 19 GROWTH  he manufacturing industry T of the future is autonomous smart factories. Market trends and business review Infrastructure Our three sectors – infrastructure, industry and Although infrastructure projects are largely national, energy – vary in their prospects for growth, but they they are affected by global trends. The main drivers are all focussing on increased sustainability at all are rapid urbanisation, greater demand for a healthy levels, the amazing opportunities presented by living environment and increasing life expectancy. digitalization and the essential role of design in This all leads to a greater need for sustainable good performance. societies, smart buildings and efficient transport solutions. The sector is characterised by: Sustainable urban development. The strong urbanisation trend that drives more and more people from rural areas to cities makes climate-friendly, safe environments combined with smart communication solutions essential. In cities experiencing major growth it is also vital to address the great shortage of healthy housing, clean water, sanitation, energy and waste management. Sustainable urban development requires cooperation between various sectors and multi-level governance as well as progressive forms of dialogue between residents and the business community. Smart buildings. In the property area, demographic trends, including an ageing population, have led to the current structural changes in healthcare systems and other areas. For example, according to Statistics Sweden (SCB), one in four inhabitants in Sweden will be over 65 by 2060. Healthcare is experiencing major changes, with the new way of managing care being based on less contact with doctors and shorter hospital stays. Hospitals are instead making changes to become more highly specialised and provide safer care, with the patient in focus. More efficient transport. The ongoing densification of cities and surrounding municipalities increases the need for effective transport solutions. Significant investments are being made in road and rail traffic, mainly in Sweden and Norway, including the highspeed East Link railway between Stockholm and Linköping, the Follobanen railway in Norway and the West Link in the Gothenburg region. The projects extend over several years and new, major investments are in the planning stage. Huge technological shifts are also emerging. For railways, developments are driven by the new cross-border traffic management systems that have been adopted in Europe. For road traffic, the rapid increase in IT and automation features in vehicles generates opportunities for effective interaction with infrastructure systems. 20 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Industry Energy Most industrial companies today face increasingly Investment levels in Europe are low, but the global tougher global competition, where the demand for energy market is growing. The growth is mainly being innovative and profitable solutions is high. Processes driven by increased capacity needs in Asia, particularly and production are streamlined while new products in South East Asia and China. Energy use per person in are being developed. This is an essential approach if these areas is still only a fraction of the level in western they are to retain market share and profitability. The countries. Here, an improved, reliable energy supply is sector is characterised by: an important strategic factor in the improvement of living standards. The sector is characterised by: Complex reality. Clients’ processes and products become increasingly complex and multifaceted as IT Increased energy needs. The number of megacities – becomes an obvious part of them. Digitalization also metropolitan areas with over 10 million inhabitants enables companies to resolve challenges faster. The – is steadily rising, particularly in Asia. This extensive automotive industry is an example of this with its process of urbanisation, in which growing populations strong need for software expertise in active safety combine with the subsequent rapid industrialisation of and driverless vehicles. The manufacturing industhe countries concerned, requires increased capacity try is now facing its next phase of digitalization: the in terms of energy, transport and water supply. Thus, fourth industrial revolution or Industry 4.0. In Industry for the foreseeable future, there is potential for further 4.0 the manufacturing companies of the future are investment in traditional forms of energy supply. Alongautonomous smart factories with even more efficient side this, existing installations need to be upgraded and production and logistics than during the IT era. It is a made more efficient. Major global investment is needed response from the European manufacturing industry to provide solutions for energy storage and the more to the hard-hitting competition of low-price countries. efficient use of current electricity networks. Another motivator is the Internet of Things (IoT), a collective term for the technology that supplies machines New business models. The energy market is largely and products with embedded sensors and computers, dependent on national political decisions, which are enabling them to communicate with each other. implemented by local authorities. Poor levels of profitability for many energy companies, including those Broader expertise. Usually, industrial companies need that are state-owned, have given rise to new models of to complement their staff with external expertise to ownership. There is also expected to be an increasing cope with all the technical challenges and obligations interest in investment in the industry from the private required to stay on the front line. Therefore, they seek sector. These investments are affected by the level of to collaborate with suppliers having specialist skills, political will to make the transition to more sustainable often emphasising few but large and resource-rich sources of energy. This requires new business models ones with broad expertise to carry out end-to-end coupled with innovative and cost-effective solutions. solutions. The suppliers help companies with the repositioning required to grow in the value chain and Focus on sustainable energy. Today, over a billion peocontinue to be successful. Up to now, product develple have no access to electricity. Meanwhile, according opment has often been linked to industrial compato UN projections, the global population is expected to nies’ core business and was something they wanted rise to 8.5 billion in the next 20 years. Due to this, it is to manage themselves – that is now changing. Today estimated that there will be a 50 percent rise in energy things are pointing to more and more demand for serneeds in the same period. This creates substantial presvices that increasingly involve external suppliers. sure in terms of the need to reduce our impact on the climate. The various stakeholders in the energy industry Sustainable industry. Sustainable solutions are need to tackle climate change. Substantial effort is reincreasingly becoming a key issue throughout inquired to achieve both national and global climate goals. dustry’s value chain – from materials and design to suppliers, production, and product performance and Renewable energy, including hydropower, currently usage. Resource efficiency and use of renewable accounts for around 20 percent of total production. materials are increasingly becoming a requirement in On a positive note, this percentage is continuing to product development, where companies with leading increase. However, the political commitment to phase expertise in sustainability have a clear competitive out fossil fuels is being hampered by financial and edge. Insightful industrial companies thus abandon the technological barriers. Energy intensive industries and previously predominant linear economy for a circutransports will also require continual, reliable deliverlar economy, with circular material flows in which the ies going forward. This means that oil, coal and gas, products are used and consumed with the least possialong with nuclear power, are still the primary sources ble raw material extraction and generated waste. of energy for production plants in emerging regions. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 21 GROWTH  ith the new strategy, W we can effectively compete in the international arena. Expansion and growth in selected niches Acquisitions for the year Using its strategy, ÅF wants to grow in existing core ÅF’s financial growth of around 12 percent over the markets as well as internationally in selected niches. past ten years is based on both organic growth and This will be done through organic growth and straacquisitions. The many acquisitions of recent years tegic acquisitions of companies in line with the new have given us solid experience and resulted in an strategy. We therefore also need to strengthen our efficient process that facilitates smooth integration. position outside Sweden by building the brand in The target now set for 2018 and beyond is an annuselected countries where we are located. al growth rate of 10 percent over a business cycle that includes add-on acquisitions, but where larger Grow on core markets... platform acquisitions are also made. The following Our core markets are currently Sweden, Norway, Denstrategic acquisitions were made during the year: mark, Finland, Switzerland and the Czech Republic. ÅF will continue to grow in these countries. We are based Midtconsult, Danmark. Strengthens ÅF’s presence in in Europe, but our business and our clients are located Denmark and creates a robust platform for further all over the world. Growth will occur on a stable marexpansion. ket in Sweden and through efforts to increase today’s low market share in other core markets with the aim Quality Engineering Group, Sweden. Provides ÅF with of strengthening our position there. a full range of quality assurance services for industrial clients in Scandinavia. ...and in selected niches internationally With the new strategy, we can effectively compete in Vatten & Miljöbyrån, Sweden. ÅF can now establish the international arena. It supports us in working outa comprehensive offer in environment and water. side our core markets, which has already begun with the acquisition of the Spanish company Aries’ solar KIAB Konsult & Installationstjänst, Sweden. Strengthdivision in 2016 and the buy-out of the renowned light ens ÅF’s presence in Norrbotten County and investdesign studio Light Bureau in the UK in 2017. ment in construction and properties. We want to supplement ÅF’s broad and deep expertise – which is increasingly offered as packKoncept Stockholm, Sweden. Sharpens ÅF’s offer age solutions – with new acquisitions that further in architecture and civil infrastructure planning. enhance and strengthen the sustainable design and technology solutions we offer. We strive to become Eitech (automation business), Sweden. Improves an international leader in selected niches and segÅF’s offer in automation to industrial clients. ments such as research and development in the automotive sector, food and pharmaceuticals, advanced Light Bureau, UK. Strengthens ÅF’s offer in lighting manufacturing, the process industry and lighting dedesign and creates a stronger platform for internasign. In the future, we also aim to make a new platform tional assignments. acquisition that can generate long-term growth, like the powerful contribution the acquisition of Epsilon inUse, Sweden. Makes ÅF Sweden’s largest provider made five years ago. of service design and user experience. ÅF’s international expansion entails the need to deal with possible ethical risks in these new markets. We need to increase diversity at ÅF in terms of language skills, and cultural and regional awareness of the new markets, while taking care to not deviate from our current ethical guidelines. We will continue to conduct business responsibly. 22 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 L  ighting design by Light Bureau, Greenwich Low Carbon Energy Center, London Interior design by Koncept Stockholm, Haymarket by Scandic, Stockholm ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 23 VALUE CREATION ÅF’s business model entails that we strengthen our clients’ competitiveness by delivering services either as end-to-end solutions or as expertise and resource enhancement. To increase value further, we develop the client offer through more cross-functional and packaged solutions, concepts and selected products. Increased value for clients. Katarina Brodin, Resource Manager 24 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Developed business model Unique spe cialist expertise ÅF develops its business model to deliver even better ÅF has unrivalled breadth in the specialist expertise value to our clients. We do this by climbing the value it can offer to each client relationship and across chain and developing our offerings within our service all sectors. This comes courtesy of ÅF’s own 10,000 delivery and by increasing the number of projects qualified employees and its unique network of around and end-to-end solutions that intersect ÅF’s various 30,000 engineers and specialists – a huge resource areas of expertise. This will enable us to meet global that is constantly growing and comprises everything trends and fully exploit the potential of digitalizafrom small businesses, academics and alumni nettion and our design thinking as well as effectively works to independent engineers and researchers. cultivate the aftermarket. To add further value for The combination of in-house employees and our our clients, we will invest in developing concepts and network means we are well-placed to provide the selected products. most appropriate team for any assignment. TogethAs we adapt the business model to offer more er, we can offer our clients sustainable technological end-to-end solutions as well as concepts and and design solutions that respond to global trends, solutions where we have overall responsibility, ÅF’s enabling them to stay ahead of developments and opportunities to enter early in the process of actively enhance their long-term competitiveness. Starting helping the client choose solutions that create good in 2018, our various areas of expertise are as follows: economic, environmental and social values are ​​ also improved. It helps us generally become more offensive with inserting the sustainability aspect into the WE CREATE SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS IN client assignment. Projects This is ÅF’s offering for major projects and end-toend solutions. In such projects, ÅF acts as a partner for the client, leading and running the entire project and being paid to deliver a solution or outcome within a set timeframe. The projects may be about reducing costs or increasing productivity, but also breaking into new areas or markets. ÅF now has a well-developed project model that is continuously being improved. We take advantage of our size, broad skills and leverage created in the organisation through repeatable services. Our now well-functioning project model facilitates deliveries of the most complex projects. To capture new opportunities that emerge and offer end-to-end solutions, our partnerships and collaborations must be intensified and cultivated so we can solve the great challenges of the future together. Service A common situation for many clients is that they temporarily need human resources or skills in different INFRASTRUCTURE INDUSTRY areas or processes. Here it is the customer who leads Buildings Manufacturing and runs the project, and this usually happens when Road & rail Automotive development ÅF works in the client’s development processes. ÅF’s Project management Food & pharma contribution is to bring the necessary skills to help Water & environment Process industry the client’s project run smoothly. The client pays for Architecture & design Product development the time spent by ÅF. ÅF continuously develops our Industrial technology service delivery, for example by delivering complete ENERGY Technical services teams that work towards a specific objective on-site Heat & power with the client or by ÅF running a “satellite” operaHydropower DIGITAL SOLUTIONS tion tailored to our clients’ needs. ÅF also sees good Renewable energy Experience design opportunities for generating aftermarket business in Nuclear power IT solutions various areas. Transmission & Embedded systems distribution Systems management Solutions, concepts and products Our clients increasingly demand solutions that combine cross-functional skills, but also functional and conceptual solutions. ÅF is quite able to meet this demand and works to provide more conceptual solutions and concepts, along with selected products. This will add value for our clients as well as help ÅF advance its position as an international engineering and design company. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 25 VALUE CREATION World-class sustainable solutions With our new strategy of creating sustainable techCombining ÅF’s unique expertise in design with smart nological and design solutions, sustainable developdigital solutions and in-depth domain knowledge in ment is a given in everything we offer our clients. As infrastructure, industry and energy enables us to offer part of ÅF’s multidisciplinary solutions, sustainability world-class end-to-end solutions in our four strong also underpins all our services and products in the growth areas: smart cities and infrastructure, induscontext of a continuous mutual trial digitalization, increased mobility and a changing learning process. energy market. Smart cities and infrastructure CASE Develop time-saving solution ÅF shapes smarter cities where resources and space for motorways are optimised for people. Smart homes, self-driving When accidents occur on motorways, blockages vehicles and sustainable urban planning are examples often cause hours-long queues and wasted time for of solutions that will define the future. road users on alternate routes. The reason is that traffic signals and intersections are controlled by ÅF drives development of the cities of the future. programs that fit specific traffic patterns and are not Through expertise and innovative solutions, we are configured for increased traffic volumes. involved in and influence the development of many The Danish Road Directorate was looking for a public urban development projects, both in Sweden smooth and cost-effective solution for optimisand internationally – from designing roads and public ing these traffic flows in connection with motorway transport to creating the hospitals, housing, lighting congestion. ÅF created a solution that can simultaand acoustics of the future. We have a big comneously handle several traffic signals – from differpetitive advantage here by being able to handle the ent suppliers – centrally from a traffic management comprehensive and complex technology shift that centre. Only two weeks after delivery, it was tested is now occurring. And growth is substantial. Through in connection with a truck accident with no serious the acquisition of architectural firms Sandellsandberg personal injuries. and Koncept Stockholm, we can offer end-to-end “The solution worked perfectly. The waiting time solutions in infrastructure planning. and chaos for the drivers decreased considerably and We contribute expertise from an environmental we are now working to introduce it all over the counand social sustainability perspective, where municipal try. More than 300 intersections across the country waste management, conservation of cultural heritage will be included in the delivered solution, and many and development of safe and accessible green spacmore alternate routes will be configured,” said Jakob es are some of the areas. Through the acquisition of Berg, lead developer at ÅF’s office in Denmark, where Vatten & Miljöbyrån we establish a comprehensive they have been involved in traffic management soluenvironment and water offer. tions for smart cities since the 1990s. Our expertise in IT and automation is a prerequisite for increased efficiency, both in road systems and buildings. We are part of the expansion of the digital infrastructure of tomorrow. For example, ÅF is a key player in bringing all of Sweden on line by 2025, which will strengthen the country’s position in innovative and sustainable industrial production of goods and services. Here we support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals for sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) in different ways. Our assignments establish values ​​such as efficient and renewable energy, resource efficiency, secure workplaces, accessibility, and improved air and water quality. To up our influence on sustainability within the industry, ÅF became a member of the Gröna Städer (Green Cities) network during the year. In infrastructure planning, various conflict situations are common in association with building construction, especially with infrastructure projects or when virgin land is being built on. This can be avoided through early political processes such as joint consultations, something ÅF is good at. 26 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Industrial digitalization ÅF facilitates digitalized industries where innovative solutions based on information technology generate profits along the value chain. Cloud data, big data, robotics and the Internet of Things are some of the technologies we work with that lead us to the next industrial revolution. As a supplier, ÅF has a great advantage as industry is being digitalized; few other suppliers have such deep domain knowledge combined with IT expertise. We operate within a broad spectrum of industrial projects – from product development, process development and logistics solutions, to streamlining material flows. We help development-intensive industries cope with the transition to new production methods. By applying digitalization and smart technology, ÅF helps connect machines, systems and processes that lead to more efficient energy and resource utilisation. We participate in the development of many products used daily – from washing machines, mobile phones and packaging to smart, safe vehicles. This can be done quickly thanks to our end-to-end solutions, which are often multidisciplinary projects, for example CASE combining expertise in automation and industrial IT Support LKAB’s development to connect clients’ business systems and production of a new sustainable industrial park processes. As LKAB’s mine in Kiruna becomes deeper and deepThe world is moving towards increasing demands er, things above ground are also affected. Besides for circular business models with zero waste. Our town planning for the entire municipality, a completely goal is to promote sustainable industrialisation and new industrial park for LKAB must also be planned innovation. Industrial process ideas can also be used elsewhere in the municipality. advantageously as inspiration in urban planning for ÅF contributes many different skills to this transthe smart city. formative major project: urban planning of the new Here we support the UN’s Sustainable DevelopKiruna and BIM modelling, 3D visualisation and longment Goals for industry, innovation and infrastructure term development of how LKAB’s new industrial park (SDG 9) in various ways. Through our assignments, will look over the next 30 years. Within the framework ÅF optimises logistics and process flows to increase of the assignment, ÅF also digitalizes the planning productivity and minimise energy and resource conand management of mining operations – a good sumption. example of how we are contributing to industrial digitalization. A  transformative project that shows how we actively contribute to industrial digitalization. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 27 VALUE CREATION Examples of multidisciplinary ÅF solutions At present, we offer many multidisciplinary ÅF solutions, that is, solutions where we combine expertise from several divisions. – West Link, Gothenburg – Follobanen, Oslo – Tunnel automation/airport construction – Wind power/nuclear power – Smart industry – Smart buildings Future mobility CASE Give electric car upstart ÅF facilitates future mobility where real-time data the power to challenge Tesla in China makes it possible to move anywhere at any time. The Chinese electric car manufacturer Nio plans to Improved traffic flow, better use of space, increased challenge the Tesla giant in the most lucrative market personal safety and less pollution are solutions that for battery-powered vehicles: China’s own domestic will be seen in the future. market. To succeed with this, they got help from ÅF, which developed the complete chassis system for Today, ÅF offers world-class automotive developtheir new electrically-driven ES8 SUV, including virtual ment, leads the development of smart cities, has development and mechanical integration. in-depth expertise in digital solutions and has a recLaunching in 2018, the new vehicle will improve air ognised industrial process way of thinking. This gives quality in China, where it will be sold. The project was ÅF unique opportunities to develop innovative and implemented at the customer’s facilities in Shanghai, effective solutions for tomorrow’s mobility. In these as well as in Trollhättan, Sweden, and Hyderabad, India. assignments, we fully utilise our multidisciplinary ÅF solutions. For a long time, cities and roads were planned based only on the needs of the vehicles, resulting in barrier effects, unhealthy lifestyles and polluted air. Even today, the car is the first choice for many, and will remain so until there are alternative vehicles and means of transport, better roads and attractive walking and cycling lanes. The space that cars occupy, whether in use or parked, also means that much of a city’s space is wasted. Here we support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals for sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) in different ways. ÅF’s innovations in various tranport systems and vehicles connect systems, societies and people, which leads to more efficient energy and resource utilisation while creating safer environments. U  nique opportunities to develop innovative and effective solutions for tomorrow’s mobility. 28 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Examples of concepts and selected products – retrÅFit – Service that meets the needs of aging At present ÅF offers some concepts and selected products power generation that will be added to in the future: – Radox – System for documenting things – S ustainable Business Performance Indicators, SBPI – geographically (GIS) Digital tool that measures sustainability scientifically. – Visito – Visiting system for increased security and control Read more on page 16. – Easy – Support system for quality assurance and – PaperLine – Production system for the pulp and compliance monitoring of services paper industry – Tiger – Research and development expertise that is put – SupportLine – After sales industrial service together for a specific occasion – Product Regulatory Support, PRS – Web-based tool for – Balance+ – an intelligent adaptive solution to optimise efficient data acquisition of subcontractor information control parameters for boilers in thermal power plants A changing energy market When it comes to how energy will be generated and used in the future, ÅF is taking a bold approach that envisions a future in which electricity generation has been decentralised and the energy storage problem has been solved. Over the coming years, this will require a robust, efficient energy infrastructure. ÅF’s engagement in the energy sector is global – we have a presence in more than 80 locations in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. Our expertise ranges across all the different types of energy, from hydro­ power, coal, gas, bio and waste fuels and nuclear power to renewable energy, as well as transmission and distribution. We are driven by our desire to ensure access for all to modern forms of affordable, reliable and sustainable energy. Our clients benefit from a wide range of expertise covering the whole spectrum of power generation as well as the entire investment life-cycle. By combining smart energy technology with digitalization, ÅF can also help to link energy systems with communities. During the year, ÅF was commissioned to lead an important transmission and distribution project and power generation projects in Africa and South East CASE Asia, while in Europe we were awarded CHP projects Solar energy park in Dubai in Kaunas and Vilnius in Lithuania. ÅF has been commissioned by MASDAR, one of the These projects are in support of UN Sustainable Delargest renewable energy developers in the Middle velopment Goal 7 – Affordable and clean energy. Our East, to act as Lender Technical Advisor (LTA) for a services help to ensure access to affordable, reliable, solar energy project in Dubai. The power plant has sustainable and renewable energy for all, but also to a capacity of 800 MW and requires an investment reduce energy use, make more efficient use of reof more than USD 1 billion. Our assignment includes sources and limit greenhouse gas emissions. Securing planning, construction, commissioning and operation the energy supply and transforming energy generauntil 2022. Commercial operating dates are expected tion into renewable energy is a major challenge. to develop in three stages: 2018, 2019 and 2020. Electricity is also crucial to sustainable social development in the fight against poverty. Sometimes, a lack of reliable alternative energy sources means it needs to be generated from non-renewable sources W  e are involved in the such as coal or gas. planning, construction, de­ ploy­ment and operation of one of the largest solar power plants that will be built in this decade. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 29 OPERATIONS ÅF has simplified its organisational structure and adjusted its financial control. The aim is to create distinct responsibility for profitability, client segments and international growth as well as increasing the number of projects and end-to-end solutions. Good ethics are a matter of course. Operational Excellence. Daniel Smenes Eika, Engineer, computional mechanics and bridge construction. Simen Sjøvold Skavang, Engineer, construction 30 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Clearer organisational structure We have reviewed the entire organisational structure to ensure that the strategy will be fully effective. The guidelines in this process were expertise, clarity and structure. Specifically, it is about creating an even more successful ÅF where every employee knows what drives the business. This is done by: I ntroducing a client/segment-orientated structure To ensure there is enough focus on our growth areas and key segments, ÅF is creating an organisational structure in which the client is central when we build up our offering. Decentralising responsibility Responsibility has been decentralised so that all employees take full responsibility for business deals and profitability in the divisions and their business areas. Associating the main account with the divisions Our biggest assignment accounts are connected to the greatest possible extent to the managers of the divisions and their business areas. Developing an incentive model ÅF is updating the model to create responsibility for profitability and facilitate the offering in multidisciplinary ÅF solutions. Creating multidisciplinary ÅF solutions To create powerful offerings, we are designing a structure and procedures to invest in clear-cut solutions and products that run straight through the divisions. Accelerating acquisitions ÅF is raising the pace of acquisitions in strategically important areas and increasing investment in digitalization. Ensuring the best methods are used We are ensuring that ÅF employs the very best working practices and methods. Internationalising the divisions All ÅF divisions operate internationally. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 31 OPERATIONS Financial control 1. Follow Global Compact To ensure satisfied clients and competitive prices, At the tender stage, we always conduct a risk asÅF constantly strives to make its operations more sessment of the assignment based on ÅF’s code of efficient and cost-effective. This is done in each conduct, which is grounded in the ten principles of business area and is monitored through different the Global Compact. The aim is to catch possible performance indicators such as quality in project risks associated with the project at an early stage. If implementation, measurement of client satisfaction, necessary, we conduct a more detailed risk analysis capacity utilisation and cost trends. to identify potential risks and give recommendaTo drive growth and profitability in the four divitions as to what measures can be taken to deal with sions’ 21 different business areas, they have been them. If there are obvious risks and it is not possible given full responsibility for profitability. This means for ÅF to have any influence on them, we refrain from international full responsibility for clients, sales and taking on the project. During the year we conducted delivery in each area. The business areas are meadetailed analyses of eight projects and prepared two sured according to financial performance indicators security reports. Two of the projects were abandoned. and by other important strategic initiatives with the Discussions are ongoing in a further two cases. In support of the Balanced Scorecard. other projects, measures have been taken in line with recommendations. Pricing and purchase of consulting services The Global Compact is also at the heart of the We strengthen our clients’ competitiveness by creatanalysis of our relationships with our partners and ing cost-effective solutions and concepts. We strive suppliers. When ÅF engages a partner, an agreement for pricing that is based on the value we deliver to must always be drawn up between ÅF and the partner clients rather than on how many hours we have spent company. A digitalized procedure is in place whereon the project. It should contribute both to higher by partners are informed of ÅF’s code of conduct for perceived value for clients and increased value for partners, known as the ÅF Partner Criteria Policy. The shareholders. partner confirms by signing the agreement that they To be able to provide our clients with the most aphave received the information and intend to follow the propriate team and solutions, ÅF has a large network requirements set out in it. of partners in addition to about 10,000 highly qualified employees. This partner network gives our clients 2. Zero tolerance of corruption access to a further 30,000 engineers and specialists. It is unfortunately a fact of life that corruption occurs ÅF also actively collaborates with engineering in the countries where we operate. ÅF has a policy companies from other countries and regions, such as of zero tolerance of all forms of corruption, extortion India and Eastern Europe, to be able to offer competand bribery. Our anti-corruption efforts are managed itive prices. through our anticorruption framework, our code of conduct and our whistleblower policy, which specify Ethical undertakings and responsible business what to do if corruption is uncovered. Internal audits One of ÅF’s most important tasks is to ensure that of processes, projects and physical locations are also assignments are carried out in a responsible manner conducted through the operational management regardless of where in the world they are carried out. system. Read more about ÅF’s anticorruption efforts We have developed a systematic process to ensure in the sustainability notes on page 94. this, based on the Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, working conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. The sustainability risks that may arise in our assignments differ between the various business areas, projects and markets. Our 10 biggest clients Sales by sector Network of partners Trafikverket AB Volvo Scania 30,000 Volvo Cars Ericsson FMV Vattenfall AstraZeneca Engineers and specialists GE in ÅF’s network Avinor AS ÅF’s ten biggest clients Private sector 67% account for 26 percent Public sector 33% of sales 32 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 It is important to me to work for a company that has a clear intention to work toward a more sustainable future. Emma Andersson, Future talent at ÅF and student at KTH Royal Institute of Technology ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 33 EMPLOYEES ÅF will be an attractive employer by offering our employees interesting career and development opportunities and continuing to attract and recruit new talent to ÅF. This is the foundation for a continuing high rate of growth. Attractive employer. Leadership development Structured executive recruitment Our new strategy includes an increased focus on Good, clear leadership is everything for a know­ledgeleadership. We believe that leadership is about creatintensive business like ÅF’s – both to attract new ing long-term sustainable profits by developing both talent and to retain the employees who are currently our business and our employees. Good leadership is a working for us. We use a structured, long-term apfoundation for strong client relationships and a comproach, identifying executive talent and planning for mitted workforce. All leadership development at ÅF is advancement and succession in various leadership based on our leadership criteria – our own leadership roles. We also provide different forms of executive philosophy – which describe our culture and what kind leadership training to advance our managers. of leadership we believe we need to be successful with For instance, our own professional training proour strategy. gramme – ÅF Academy – offers induction days for new managers and for several years we have also held an executive programme for senior managers. At the end of 2016 the ÅF Academy was strengthened by the introduction of a new leadership programme for middle managers: the ÅF Leadership Programme. 34 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Rickard Berglund, Engineer Industry Thomas Lackman, Engineer risk management ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 35 EMPLOYEES Commitment and development ation (IPMA). ÅF Life Science Academy is an indusGiven ÅF’s size and breadth, with projects and astry-oriented educational initiative aimed at ensuring signments that cover many engineering disciplines ÅF’s growth and development in a demanding global and industries, we can offer our employees many market in food and pharmaceuticals. The courses are interesting career and development opportunities. primarily internal, but several of them are also offered Examples of career paths are specialist, manager, to our clients. No other market player – competitor project manager and business developer. An importor partner – can offer such a broad training program ant part of our employees’ skills development octargeted to professionals in the field. curs in their daily activities where they can work and develop together with capable colleagues. In addition Future ÅF Programme to the personal and professional development that Last autumn saw the launch of our strategy activation occurs daily, we have our own academy that provides programme FUTURE ÅF Programme with the aim of training courses: ÅF Academy. We also have various involving and engaging all employees in the implekinds of skills networks and mentoring programmes. mentation of ÅF’s new strategy and values. EmployAn important aspect of ÅF’s continuing professional ees are able to participate in individual exercises via development involves increasing knowledge and una digital platform and all teams also carry out variderstanding of sustainability issues. It is particularly ous group exercises. The aim of these exercises is to important for our managers and sales people, so they increase understanding of the driving forces in our can be proactive with sustainability in our projects. business and create involvement and commitment regarding the new vision, strategy and values. ÅF Academy We provide all our employees training in several difManagers’ conference on the new strategy ferent areas through our own training platform, ÅF At the end of the autumn, ÅF’s 700 managers Academy. There are both basic training courses for gathered together for two days to gain a deeper new consultants and advanced training in areas such understanding of the new vision and strategy. The as business acumen, leadership and project manageconference helped increase commitment, improve ment. In 2017 the training programme was digitalized understanding and strengthen the network. to increase access and both the range and types of courses available. A consistent aspect of all training via Facilitating international careers ÅF Academy is that it is permeated with ÅF’s values The new organisational structure that was estaband an ethos of good leadership and business acumen. lished during the year and implemented on 1 January ÅF Academy provides training on a continuous basis 2018 created increased clarity for the workforce from for certification complying with standards such as the various perspectives: European International Project Management Associ–Å  F’s offering of an end-to-end approach, solutions and projects has been clarified. –T  he important roles of the leadership and teams has been highlighted, as has the unique breadth of 1,800 skills. –T  he organisational structure has been clarified and simplified. It also provides employees with better international career opportunities as every division is responsible for running its own business in ÅF’s new employees in 2017. core markets and internationally. Trend in number of employees Gender balance Women Men 2013–2017 2017 Thousands 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 Consultants Recruited Managers Employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Women 23.7% Women 26.6% Women 18.6% total Men 76.3% Men 73.4% Men 81.4% Women 25.1% Men 74.9% 36 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 First name Surname, consultant in xxxxxxxxxxxx, First name Surname, consultant in xxxxxxxxxxxx Developing and monitoring commitment paigns, visits to universities and other schools, and by We know that an important factor in motivation and working with internal ambassadors and communicacommitment is ongoing discussions between employtion to increase internal commitment. On Universum’s ees and their line managers regarding performance career barometer among young practising engineers, and development. To facilitate this discussion, at the ÅF came in second in 2017 right after IKEA. beginning of 2017 a simplified interactive support tool was introduced for performance reviews. The purpose ÅF Future Talent – ÅF’s programme for talented of this tool is to assist with preparations and make it students easy to document and monitor objectives and develÅF’s student talent programme, which is targeted to opment. At ÅF, every employee must have a perforprospective engineers, was conducted for the second mance review with their manager at least once a year, year in a row. The programme starts during the parbut we encourage both employees and managers to ticipants’ fourth year at university and continues for take stock more often. Each year we measure comthree terms. During the first term the students get to mitment and leadership. The 2017 employee survey know ÅF through lectures, workshops, field trips and showed that ÅF’s employees are highly motivated mentorships. In the second term the students learn and think that we collaborate well in our teams. Other how ÅF works with its brand and how to get involved areas that score well are the working environment as as ÅF ambassadors at their respective universities. well as respect from their line managers and between During the third and final term the students do their colleagues. One area where there was room for imdegree projects at ÅF. provement was the need for more clarity as to where ÅF is going as a company and clearer objectives and Popular internship via Tekniksprånget (Technology Leap) feedback at an individual level. The results of the ÅF took part in Tekniksprånget for the fourth year in employee survey have provided an important basis a row. It is a national initiative commissioned by the for decisions such as the introduction of the strategy government and run by the Royal Swedish Academy activation programme FUTURE ÅF, which is intended of Engineering Sciences (IVA) to stimulate interest among other things to increase clarity. in engineering – particularly among women. Young people who are admitted are offered a four-month Our employer brand internship at the participating companies. ExperiFor many years ÅF has made a conscious effort to ence shows that ÅF is a popular employer that rebuild a strong employer brand. This undertaking ceives plenty of applications. During the year, 1,740 continues to rank high on our agenda, both from an applied to Tekniksprånget, of whom 655 wanted to internal and an external perspective. To strengthen do their internship at ÅF, and 39 percent of them ÅF’s employer brand, the company is marketed in were women. various ways, for example by means of digital camÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 37 EMPLOYEES Recruitment and induction 30 percent by 2020. At the end of the year ÅF’s emÅF is experiencing rapid growth, by about 1,800 employees were 25.1 percent female and the proportion ployees just this year. Our rate of growth is dependent of women recruited during the year was just under on an effective and well-functioning recruitment pro27 percent. For several years there have been various cess. Each manager is responsible for their recruitment initiatives under the umbrella term EVEN ODDS to plan and those they recruit, with first-class professionimprove the gender balance not only at ÅF but in the al support provided by HR. ÅF currently has about 30 entire industry. Examples of activities that have been recruiters who proactively search for and solicit canestablished are mentor programmes, recruitment camdidates of interest and ensure that they have a good paigns and leadership development. At the end of the candidate experience in our recruitment processes. year work was begun to become certified in diversity. When a new employee has started working at ÅF, it is essential that we treat the person in a professional Newcomers to Sweden bring skills and welcoming manner. Something new this year is In 2016 an initiative was started to recruit more newly an onboarding app where we collect useful, inspiring immigrated engineers as a way of bringing valuable information and provide answers to frequently asked skills into ÅF. The Trainee Programme for Newly Immiquestions. All new employees are also offered an “ÅF grated Engineers project progressed well in 2017. ÅF day” at the head office to get to know their new ÅF employs a full-time diversity coach to run this project colleagues, meet with company management and rewho works together with the Swedish Public Employceive an induction into ÅF’s company-wide procedures. ment Service to find the right candidates as well as provide support to trainees who have been taken on Diversity and inclusion and managers who take on trainees. At the end of the As a rapidly growing company, ÅF is always on the year we had about 60 trainees who had done or were look-out for a diversity of talent who can contribute doing internships with us, most of whom were then to the pool of innovative strength both for clients and employed by ÅF. Interest in the programme is growing for society at large. We are convinced that a more steadily and generates internal pride and commitdiversified workplace makes a company more comment as well as external attention and requests for petitive. ÅF actively pursues the promotion of divercollaboration and guidance. sity and inclusion. Partly, this involves developing our procedures to attract and recruit new managers and Our core values employees, to ensure fair and gender-neutral salaries The new core values – brave, devoted and team and to educate and train managers in inclusive leaderplayer – support ÅF’s strategy. They also express ship. For example, issues relating to diversity and incluthe fact that we are future-oriented, progressive and sion are integrated into all leadership training at ÅF. business-like, good at collaboration and passionate about everything we do. They are well suited to our More women are needed ambition to have the market’s best employees. For ÅF has an overall objective of creating a better balour core values to take root at ÅF, they have emerged ance between the genders, both among consultants from a process that began among the employees and managers. An interim target is that the proporthemselves. tion of female managers and employees should reach Michael Krarup, Architect, Gottlieb Paludan Architects Stina Tang, Sustainability Consultant 38 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 On being brave in my daily work: On being brave in my work: It’s about always feeling secure in both your technical Being brave in your daily work means daring to question skills and personal competence. Then, by challenging established truths and ways of doing things. That is one another, we can dare to make difficult decisions where innovation is born. and create progress. If you’re interested in innovative engineering it gets better results and creates unexOn working together and having colleagues who are pected value for the client. devoted to their area of work: When we work together, something happens – each On being a team player: individual person’s engagement contributes to our It means I can count on many different colleagues at exceeding our expectations, which are already high to ÅF, with different backgrounds, ideas, competence begin with, and we all grow as individuals. The client and experience, so my mindset in my daily work is sees this. And we feel that. Which makes it really fun always in a state of evolution. If we can change our to go to work every day. approach and how we look at things, then we can also It’s in an engineer’s nature to know their area really help others around us progress. well. It feels really good to have very knowledgeable and keen colleagues to develop the innovations of the Working with devoted colleagues means ... future with. ...getting to wake up every morning feeling that you’re going to get to learn something new, both at work and Sara Lindstrand, in your everyday life. Engineer, Project Manager Sustainability & ÅF SBPI Alessandro D’Amario, Project Engineer ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 39 ÅF AS AN INVESTMENT Global trends – globalisation, urbanisation, digitalization and repositioning – are the underlying drivers that increase demand for our services. At ÅF we are constantly developing our offering and directing our resources towards adapting our operations to the changing world around us. Five reasons to invest in ÅF. 1 2 Sustainable solutions meet Successful agenda for growth disruptive social trends ÅF grows both organically and through ÅF creates sustainable solutions covering a acquisition and its objective is to achieve broad spectrum of expertise areas and client annual growth of 10 percent. Growth strengthsegments. Combining these enables ÅF to ens and broadens our client offering while, at provide solutions in engineering, design and the same time, we have been able to identify digitalization that few other consulting comand realise cost synergies in the companies panies can match. This makes ÅF an attractive we have acquired. We have a clear agenda for partner as industry is being digitalized or as we growth and have shown that we can grow profbuild smart cities to be sustainable in the long itably. Our target is to achieve an EBITA margin term. of at least 10 percent over a business cycle. NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY SEK m % 14,000 10 12,000 8 10,000 6 8,000 6,000 4 4,000 2 2,000 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EBITA-margin1 1) Excl. items affecting comparability 40 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 3 Attractive employer In the long term, our ability to attract the best employees is crucial. ÅF provides excellent development opportunities and interesting assignments for clients who want to be ahead of the crowd. Being an attractive employer ensures that we can recruit talented employees who want to join us and create leading solutions, which in turn strengthens our client offering and competitiveness. 4 Strengthened brand ÅF is a brand that is well-known, particularly in Sweden, as representing engineering expertise and sustainable solutions. With its new strategy, ÅF is taking a new position as an engineering and design company that will create leading solutions in industry, infrastructure, energy and digitalization in our core markets and internationally within selected niches. During the year the company completed several acquisitions both within and outside Sweden to further strengthen the brand in terms of architecture, design and digitalization. 5 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 2008–2017, % 800 700 Long-term value creation 600 In the last ten years, ÅF 500 has had a total share400 holder return of 685 percent compared with 300 125 percent for the OMX 200 Stockholm Large Cap GI. 100 ÅF represents long-term, 0 sustainable development that adds value for share-100 holders, clients, employ2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ees and society at large. AF B total return OMX Stockholm Large Cap Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinspektionen). ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 41 ÅF AS AN INVESTMENT The price of ÅF’s Class B share rose by 8 percent in 2017. The total shareholder return, including reinvested dividends, amounted to 11 percent, the ÅF share thereby continuing to give a better return than the index. The liquidity of the shares continued to be high during the year, exceeding the average for the last five years. The share. ÅF’s B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockbetter than OMX Stockholm and the OMX Stockholm holm since January 1986. Since 2 January 2017, ÅF’s Large Cap, which both rose by 6.4 percent in 2017. The shares have been trading on the Nasdaq Stockholm total return on the AF B share, that is, price trend and Large Cap, the exchange list for companies with a reinvested dividend (SEK 4.50), was 11.0 percent during market capitalisation exceeding one billion euros. At the year, while the OMX Stockholm GI rose by 9.8 peryear-end, the combined market value of ÅF’s shares, cent. Over the last five-year period, 2013–2017, the AF including A shares, was SEK 13,987 million (12,978). B share’s total return was 180 percent compared with 92 percent for the OMX Stockholm GI. Price trend and sales At the end of 2017, the AF B share price was SEK 180.90, an increase of 8.3 percent in 2017, which is TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 2013–2017, % 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 -50 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ÅF OMX Stockholm Large Cap OMX Stockholm HIQ Multiconsult Pöyry Sweco Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinspektionen). DEVELOPMENT OF THE SHARE CAPITAL Change in number of shares Total shares Total shares Share capital Quota Year value Change A shares B shares A shares B shares Quantity SEK thousand 2010 5 Split 2:1 804,438 16,225,063 1,608,876 32,450,126 34,059,002 170,295 2012 5 Non-cash issue 5,985,915 1,608,876 38,436,041 40,044,917 200,225 2013 5 Cancellation -558,782 1,608,876 37,877,259 39,486,135 197,431 2014 5 Cancellation -383,650 1,608,876 37,493,609 39,102,485 195,513 2014 2.5 Split 2:1 1,608,876 37,493,609 3,217,752 74,987,218 78,204,970 195,513 2015 2.5 Cancellation -967,869 3,217,752 74,019,349 77,237,101 193,093 2015 2.5 Conversion of staff convertibles 828,192 3,217,752 74,847,541 78,065,293 195,163 2016 2.5 Conversion of staff convertibles 848,660 3,217,752 75,696,001 78,913,733 197,284 2017 2.5 Cancellation -835,488 3,217,752 74,860,513 78,078,265 195,195 2017 2.5 Conversion of staff convertibles 183,600 3,217,752 75,044,113 78,261,8651 195,654 1) Of which 939,285 own shares 42 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 The diagram on the previous page shows the total by 183,600. Shares were bought back for the 2017 shareholder return for AF B shares compared with the convertible programme, increasing the number of own index and the Nordic region’s largest listed technology B shares by 648,416. Finally, the share cancellation companies. implemented during the year reduced the number of In 2017 a total of 21 million shares (19) were traded B shares by 835,488. on Nasdaq Stockholm at a value of SEK 3,809 million (2,858). The average turnover per trading day was Long-term communication with the stock market 84,778 shares (73,824), corresponding to SEK 15 million The company has a long-term communication strat(11). The share was traded on all trading days. egy towards the capital market, and interest in the ÅF share remained strong in 2017. The CEO and CFO Dividend policy and dividend have held many meetings with investors and analysts, The Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy primarily in Stockholm and London, and also given according to which the dividend corresponds to appresentations at investment seminars. In addition, proximately 50 percent of consolidated profit after there are regular online conferences with investors, tax excluding capital gains. For the 2017 financial year analysts and the media when interim reports are the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK published. 5.00 per share (4.50), equivalent to a pay-out ratio A capital markets day was held at ÅF’s head office of 52 percent and a dividend yield of 2.8 percent. in November 2017 to present the main features of the new strategy. Share buy-backs, 2017 As of 31 December 2017, ÅF’s holding of own shares ÅF shares part of Carnegie’s sustainability portfolio amounted to 939,285 B shares (1,202,750). In 2017, In August 2017 Carnegie launched a sustainability 34,577 own shares were used to match the 2013 share portfolio that included seven Swedish shares, of savings programme and 41,816 own shares were which ÅF is one. According to Carnegie, the selected used to match the 2014 share savings programme. companies distinguish themselves by their sustainConversion of shares as per the 2013 staff convertability efforts and stand out in a positive way in their ible programme increased the number of B shares respective sectors. SHAREHOLDERS IN SWEDEN AND ABROAD SIZE OF SHAREHOLDINGS 31 December 2017 Number of shareholders Holding, % 31 December 2017 Number of shareholders Holding, % Sweden 11,120 68.5 1 500 8,084 1.4 Other Nordic countries 138 5.4 501 5,000 2,919 5.6 Rest of Europe 5,001 525 93.1 (excl. Sweden and the Nordics) 165 6.1 Total 11,528 100.0 USA 80 19.7 Rest of world 25 0.3 Total 11,528 100.0 THE TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS KEY RATIOS PER SHARE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 SEK 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Owner Holding, % Votes, % A shares B shares Share price 31 December 180.90 167.00 143.75 126.00 112.50 The ÅForsk Foundation 14.1 37.2 3,205,752 7,840,951 Basic earnings 9.58 9.32 7.81 7.16 6.70 SEB Investment Management 9.9 7.3 0 7,782,559 Diluted earnings 9.39 9.14 7.63 7.03 6.60 Swedbank Robur Funds 7.7 5.6 0 6,039,954 Equity attributable to Handelsbanken Funds 6.6 4.8 0 5,145,448 shareholders in the parent 64.30 60.19 54.46 51.17 47.33 Zeres Public Market Fund 5.1 3.7 0 3,996,855 Dividend yield, percent 2.801 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.9 CBNY-Norges Bank 4.8 3.5 0 3,744,182 Dividend 5.002 4.50 3.75 3.50 3.25 Didner & Gerge Funds 4.0 2.9 0 3,136,334 Market capitalisation, SEK NTC Various Fiduciary million 13,988 12,978 11,153 9,734 8,703 Capacity 2.9 2.1 0 2,232,476 A 2:1 share split was carried out in 2014. The comparative figures have been adjusted. 1) Calculated on proposed dividend. Afa Försäkring 2.0 1.4 0 1,527,190 2) Proposed dividend. Pareto Global 1.4 1.1 0 1,130,280 Total ten largest shareholders 58.5 69.6 3,205,752 42,576,229 ANALYSTS WHO MONITOR ÅF REGULARLY Total other 41.5 30.4 12,000 32,467,884 Name Company Total shares 100.0 100.0 3,217,752 75,044,113 Viktor Lindeberg Carnegie Investment Bank Erik Elander Handelsbanken Capital Markets Ola Södermark Kepler Cheuvreux Predrag Savinovic Nordea Johan Dahl SEB Equities ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 43 ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board of Directors and the CEO of ÅF AB (publ), corporate identity number 556120-6474, herewith submit their annual report and consolidated financial statements for the 2017 financial year. ÅF AB is the parent of the Group. The registered office is in Stockholm. Administration report Net sales and profit New strategy, new organizational structure and Net sales for the year totalled SEK 12,658 million revised financial targets (11,070). Growth was 14.3 percent (12.4). Organic During the year ÅF’s strategy was overhauled to help growth was 3.3 percent (2.9). Underlying organic reposition the company as an engineering and design growth was 3.5 percent after adjusting for the period company, maintain strong growth and heighten profithaving one less working day than the previous year ability. The overhaul also meant that new organisational and currency effects. and divisional structures were established as of 1 JanuAdjusted for items affecting comparability, EBITA ary 2018 and that the financial targets were revised. totalled SEK 1,117 million (996) and the EBITA margin was 8.8 percent (9.0). EBITA and the EBITA margin Acquisitions and divestments were SEK 1,027 million (992) and 8.1 percent (9.0), Twelve businesses have been acquired since the berespectively. Items affecting comparability amounted ginning of the year, and they are expected to contri­ to SEK 90 million (4) and consisted of costs for the bute sales of approximately SEK 600 million over a restructuring programme, which is expected to give full year. See Note 3. an annual savings effect of SEK 100 million. Annual savings effects of SEK 40 million were realised in the Cash flow and financial position latter part of 2017, thus contributing SEK 10 million At the beginning of the year, consolidated net debt to profit for the year. The cost of the programme is totalled SEK 2,298 million (1,486), generating an recognised under the Group-wide item. accumulated increase in net debt of SEK 333 million Operating profit (EBIT) totalled SEK 1,033 million (812). Cash flow from operating activities reduced net (965). The difference between EBIT and EBITA condebt by SEK 624 million. Net debt increased through sists entirely of acquisition-related items that do not dividends paid of SEK 350 million, share buy-backs affect cash flow, namely, amortisation of acquisition-­ of SEK 114 million and considerations paid, including related assets amounting to SEK 38 million (33) and contingent considerations, of SEK 433 million. the change in assessments of future contingent During the second quarter, ÅF established a conside­rations amounting to SEK -44 million (-6). commercial paper programme with an overall sum Profit after financial items amounted to SEK 957 of SEK 1,000 million. The commercial paper promillion (923). Net financial items totalled SEK -76 milgramme complements ÅF’s basic funding. In conneclion (-42). Interest expense increased due to increased tion with the establishment of the commercial paper borrowing. In addition, net financial items was charged programme, ÅF entered into a new credit facility with increased costs for discount rates re­lated to agreement of SEK 1,000 million to ensure underlying contingent considerations, which do not affect cash available credit facilities for the commercial paper flow, amounting to SEK 17 million (3). Profit after tax programme. The facility has a term of two years with amounted to SEK 742 million (711). Basic earnings per a possible extension. share was SEK 9.58 (9.32). Tax for the year amounte­d Consolidated cash and cash equivalents totalled to SEK 215 million (212), which corresponds to an SEK 223 million (329) at the end of the period and effectiv­­e tax rate of 22.4 percent (23.0). unused credit facilities amounted to SEK 1,498 million (939). Equity per share was SEK 64.30 (60.19). The President and CEO equit­­y ratio was 43.8 percent (45.1). Equity totalled Jonas Gustavsson took up his post as the new Presi­ SEK 4,989 million (4,697). dent and CEO on 1 April. Jonas Gustavsson headed Sandvik Machining Solutions since 2013 and previParent company ously held various leading positions at Sandvik since Parent company operating income for the period 2008. He was Vice President of Operations at Rotax January–December totalled SEK 764 million (658) and 2002-2007 and held various senior positions at relates chiefly to internal services within the Group. Bombardier 1997-2002 and at ABB 1995-1997. He is a Profit after net financial items was SEK 599 million Swedish citizen, was born in 1967 and holds an engi(522). Cash and cash equivalents totalled SEK 21 neering degree. millio­­n (62) and gross investment in non-current assets was SEK 34 million (49). During the year, as part of an internal restructuring programme, the parent company 44 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 has sold all shares in the subsidiaries to ÅF Holding AB There are no restrictions on the transferability of for a carrying amount corresponding to SEK 4 billion. shares due to statutory provisions, articles of association or, as far as the company is aware, in share­ Statutory sustainability report holder agreements. In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, ÅF has chosen to Long-term incentive programmes pre­pare the statutory sustainability report separateThe AGM approved a motion on a convertible proly. The scope of the statutory sustainability report, gramme for key employees of ÅF. The programme which also refers to ÅF’s Sustainability Report, is givmeans that ÅF AB raised a staff convertible of a en on page 94. ÅF has no licensable operations. nominal maximum of SEK 200 million through the issue of convertibles. The convertibles may be Employees exchanged for shares at a predetermined price of The average number of FTEs was 9,292 (8,115). The total SEK 221.90 between 15 June 2020 and 15 March 2021. number of employees at the end of the perio­d was 9,865 Convertibles with a nominal value of SEK 180 million (9,133). ÅF adopts an active, long-term perspective to were subscribed for, equivalent to 810,556 shares. HR work to attract and retain skilled employees. This The company bought back a corresponding number is done by strengthening ÅF’s employer brand both of shares, of which 648,416 shares were bought back externally and internally, working actively with managein the current year to neutralise the dilutive effect a ment issues and ensuring that all employees are offered conversion would otherwise entail. interesting tasks and good development opportunities. To strengthen ÅF’s employer brand, the company Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives is marketed in various ways, for example by means of The guidelines adopted for 2017 by the AGM are set digital campaigns and through internal ambassadors out in Note 6. The Board of Directors proposes that and communication to increase internal commitment. the 2018 AGM resolve that the policies for remunerDuring the year several activities were also held at ation and other conditions of employment for Group universities and the student talent program ÅF Future management for 2018 are in line with the policies that Talent Programme was held for the second consecutive applied in 2017. year. On Universum’s career barometer among young practising engineers, ÅF came in second in right after Corporate governance IKEA. ÅF works in a structured and long-term manÅF prepares its Corporate Governance Report as a ner with leadership recruitment and retainment. Every separate document from the statutory annual report. year, management and succession planning is carried Please see pages 107–111. out with the aim of securing good replacements for key positions in the Group and developing managers Dividend at different levels. Within the framework of leadership The Board of Directors proposes a dividend for 2017 development, a new leadership development proof SEK 5.00 per share (4.50). gramme for middle managers was introduced during the year. To retain employees at ÅF, career and continuing Expectations for 2018 professional development are important areas withÅF’s assessment is that the market outlook is good in which several initiatives were taken in 2017. Among since the industrial climate is still good in Sweden and other things, a simplified support system for perforinvestments in infrastructure in Sweden and Norway mance reviews was introduced at the beginning of the remain at a high level. The energy market is expectyear, and ÅF’s own competence development platform, ed to continue to be weak in Europe, but meanwhile, ÅF Academy, was also digitalized and strengthened switching to more fossil-free energy production paves during the year with new courses. ÅF works actively the way for higher demand. The ongoing digitalization with diversity and equality issues. For example, issues is expected to lead to good demand for embedded relating to diversity and inclusion are integrated into all systems and IT in the industrial, energy and infraleadership training at ÅF and in 2017 a programme for structure markets. recruiting more immigrant engineers was conducted. ÅF has collective agreements with Sveriges Ingenjorer Proposed appropriation of profits [the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers] and Non-restricted profits of SEK 4,441,978,368 are at the Unionen, Sweden’s largest private-sector trade union. disposal of the AGM. The Board of Directors and CEO propose that these profits be appropriated as follows: The share The ÅF share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Large A dividend of SEK 5.00 per share paid to the shareholders 386,612,900 Cap. The quota value of the share is SEK 2.50 (2.50). Class A shares have 10 votes per share and Class To be carried forward 4,055,365,468 B shares have 1 vote per share. The number of shares Total 4,441,978,368 at 31 December 2017 was 78,261,865, of which 939,285 class B shares were own shares. These amounted The Board of Directors’ explanation of the proposed to 1.2 percent of the share capital. See Note 12 for appropriation of profits will be posted on the compachanges in holdings of own shares in 2017. Own shares ny’s website, www.afconsult.com. It is also available were purchased at a value of SEK 114 million in 2017. from the company on request. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 45 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Industry Division Infrastructure Division Demand from industry was strong during the year. The road and rail market is still good but it increasIn the automotive sector, there continues to be ingly consists of many small and medium projects demand from the leading Swedish companies for ÅF's instea­­d of a few very large projects, such as the expertise in all disciplines with an increasing interStockholm Bypass and the West Link rail tunnel. est in projects and end-to-end solutions. There is In the property segment, where ÅF is mainly active also a great deal of interest in ÅF’s support for their in commercial and public properties, the market coninter­national operations. For example, ÅF’s product tinues to be very good. Demand in the architecture develop­ment business in Brazil is growing. The Chines­e and design area, where ÅF operates with well-known automotive industry is still highly active as well. brands throughout the Nordic region, is also strong. Demand in food and pharma was high, and demand More municipalities, cities and private players are in the Swedish chemical and petrochemical industry steering towards a smarter and more interconnected was stable with clear signs of recovery towards the society. As embedded systems and digital solutions end of the year. After a long period of low activity, are integrated into facilities, urban planning and the need for investment in refineries and extraction is properties, ÅF is well equipped to offer end-to-end high. In the paper and pulp industry there continues to solutions. be a willingness to invest, but the average project size During the year architectural firm Koncept Stockhol­­m is somewhat smaller than it has been. International and its 70 plus employees were acquired. The company demand for ÅF’s expertise is increasing and several has a leading market position in the premium segment feasibility studies were won in Russia, Brazil and Chile, for commercial clients in the hotel-­restaurant, retail and which paves the way for future projects. The Swedish office sectors. Within the division there are now more mining industry is still giving off positive signals with than 350 employees working with design, architecture increased demand for premium iron ore and battery and configuration, and ÅF is ranked as one of Sweden’s minerals. Positive signals from the mining industry largest employers of architects. outside Sweden are also observed during the period, The division continues to grow with good profit­ and ÅF sees potential to grow mainly in Norway and ability. Growth was 14.4 percent, of which 3.0 perFinland. centage points were organic. Growth was adverseDigitalization is increasingly becoming a key ly affected by the transition from several large to component of new investments. ÅF sees increased mostly smalland medium-sized projects, but was demand for industrial digitalization and automation offset by strong developments in other areas, such solutions, and with its deep knowledge and technical as property, architecture and design. EBITA and the breadth, ÅF has a strong position in this sector. EBITA margin were SEK 461 million (421) and 10.0 Growth was 10.2 percent, of which 4.9 percentage percent (10.4), respectively. Weak performance in the points were organic. Operating profit and operating acquired Norwegian company Reinertsen, now called margin amounted to SEK 433 million (403) and 8.9 ÅF Engineering AS, and the transition from several percent (9.1), respectively. large projects to medium-sized projects had a negative impact on the margin. SHARE OF NET SALES SHARE OF NET SALES 38% 38% 35% 35% 15% 15% KEY RATIOS KEY RATIOS 11% 2017 2016 12% 2017 2016 Net sales, SEK m 4,899 4,437 Net sales, SEK m 4,616 4,037 EBITA, SEK m 433 403 EBITA, SEK m 461 421 EBITA margin, % 8.9 9.1 EBITA margin, % 10.0 10.4 Average number of full-time Average number of full-time employees (FTEs) 3,367 3,177 employees (FTEs) 3,499 2,966 46 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 International Division Technology Division The energy market in Europe is still weak due to low The market for digital solutions was strong during the electricity prices, which continues to limit investyear. Digitalization is increasing in all ÅF sectors and ments in conventional power generation plants. Howgenerates strong demand for embedded systems, ever, the market for cogeneration plants based on systems development, user experience advisory and renewable fuels is increasing, driven by the need for service design. Digitalization has led to increased district heating and resulting from the trend towards demand for suppliers who can handle projects with adaptation to the circular economy. In South-east multiple business and delivery models while providing Asia and Africa, the market for conventional power key skills. ÅF’s offer is strong in this area due to our plants is still strong, where population growth and extensive knowledge of the industry and our deep urbanisation drive demand for power production and and broad expertise. distribution. A rise in investments in upgrades and exDemand in the defence sector has increased contensions of national transmission networks was noted siderably in view of current national security situain all markets. tions and is expected to continue to be strong going The infrastructure market in Switzerland and the forward. Sweden continued to build its fibre network, Czech Republic remains stable. The integration of the which created a strong market for the division’s Swiss infrastructure company AF Toscano acquired services during the year, with a slowdown during the at the end of 2016 has gone according to plan. winter from leading operators. Growth was 39.5 percent, of which -3.7 percentGenerally, we see a continuing trend where clients age points were organic. Acquired growth amounted in several industries who develop products increasto 41.0 percent and relates to AF Toscano. EBITA ingly seek partnerships with suppliers who can take amounted to SEK 111 million (58) and the EBITA maron long-term end-to-end solutions. Growth was 8.4 gi­n was 7.2 percent (5.3). A positive contributing factor percent, of which 5.4 percentage points were organto the results was an adjustment to the pension liaic. EBITA and the EBITA margin were SEK 185 million bility in Switzerland of SEK 12 million due to changed (167) and 9.5 percent (9.3), respectively. conditions for a pension plan. The same period As part of the strategic focus on digitalization and last year contributed a similar change to EBITA of design, ÅF acquired the company inUse, which has SEK 8 million. around 100 employees. This acquisition makes ÅF During the year, ÅF cancelled the contract for the Sweden’s largest provider in service design and user Angra 3 nuclear power plant in Brazil since the client experience with sales of just over SEK 200 million. failed to retain financing for the project. 35% SHARE OF NET SALES 15% 35% SHARE OF NET SALES 12% 15% 12% 15% 12% KEY RATIOS KEY RATIOS 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net sales, SEK m 1,532 1,098 Net sales, SEK m 1,943 1,793 EBITA, SEK m 111 58 EBITA, SEK m 185 167 EBITA margin, % 7.2 5.3 EBITA margin, % 9.5 9.3 Average number of full-time Average number of full-time employees (FTEs) 1,193 844 employees (FTEs) 1,093 1,006 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 47 RISKS ÅF’s risk management model has been implemented to meet the strategic, operational and financial risks linked to ÅF’s operations. In 2017, ÅF continuously assessed and monitored risk trends, which helped ÅF to cope with both changes in the market and changes resulting from the company’s strong growth. Risks Strategic and operational risks Description Risk management Market Changes in the economic cycle, structural changes and ÅF manages the risks linked to the economic cycle, structure changes in market trends are events which challenge and market trends by trading in multiple markets and in areas ÅF at regular intervals, demanding watchfulness and which have different business cycles and which are affectinitiative at several levels and throughout the organied in individual ways by structural changes and fluctuating sation. In addition, ÅF faces challenges from a number market trends. ÅF is also flexible internally and utilises its reof major international players as well as various small sources to best meet the needs of the moment. The company and medium-sized local competitors in each market. also carries out regular assessments of the current competitive situation in each local market and at appropriate levels within the operation. Sustainability ÅF’s presence in a global energy, industrial and infraÅF reduces its exposure to risks related to sustainabilistructure market gives rise to sustainability risks in ty through its internal Code of Conduct, and a clear and areas such as human rights, working conditions, the regulating sustainability policy. A whistleblowing channel environment and corruption. Risks associated with enables every ÅF employee to report potential deviations with working conditions are described in the “Employee” complete confidentiality. risk area. ÅF has ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and Corruption OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certification ÅF operates in 30 countries and participates in and has procedures to ensure compliance with legal requireprojects in more than 100 countries. The risks of corments. ruption are higher in some markets and within certain functions of ÅF. We use Transparency International’s Corruption corruption index and have identified sales, purchases, To handle the issue of corruption, ÅF follows Transparency gifts and client activities as ÅF’s greatest risk areas. International’s Corruption Index. Prior to the tender process, a risk assessment is made. When ÅF can identify a risk of Human rights corruption, all consultants who are expected to participate We estimate that the risk of human rights violations in the project are trained in anti-corruption issues, current in the context of ÅF’s own activities is relatively small. legislation and ÅF’s anti-corruption framework. The question is more relevant in some client assignments such as hydroelectric projects and mining Human rights operations, where displacement of people or conflicts Risks associated with human rights are identified in the conwith indigenous peoples may occur. text of the Sustainability Risk Assessment process. Prior to project launch, ÅF goes through the Environmental and Social Climate and environment Impact Assessment (ESIA) and ensures that international ÅF’s operations are not considered to be exposed to standards such as IFC Performance Standards are applied in effects of environmental damage and climate change, the context of displacement. as we do not own properties or products. Acquisitions Acquisitions are a key part of ÅF’s growth strategy. Getting to know the management and clarifying roles and Upon acquisition, it is important to retain key perresponsibilities reduces the risk of losing key employees. To sonnel and to have a well-functioning and efficient minimise the risks of integration, an acquisition and integraintegration process so that the integration has as little tion process with defined roles and responsibilities has been impact on the business as possible. implemented. Acquisition decisions are made within Group management and the Board of Directors. An annual review of recent acquisitions over a certain limit is carried out by the Board of Directors. 48 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Strategic and operational risks Description Risk management IT It is crucial that the IT infrastructure at ÅF is ÅF ensures that the Group has the appropriate IT resources operationally reliable since unplanned outages mean by utilising internal expertise and by outsourcing. Procedures loss of income. and agreements govern development, backup, deviation management and support. ÅF ensures system ownership and administration, and checks continuously to ensure that the available resources are adequate and are assigned the necessary expertise. Delivery The technical engineering services that ÅF supplies ÅF has its own business support system for the internal form the basis for the development of products, syscontrol, management, follow-up and continual improvement tems, buildings, infrastructure and industry. ÅF has a of operations. major responsibility to supply services and/or functions which meet clients’ requirements and expectations as This system has been certified under ISO 9001:2015 (quality), to quality, performance and scheduling. ISO 14001:2015 (environment) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety) and is accessible to all employees via the intranet. This system’s process descriptions for operations are tailored to suit each technical area, and contain detailed support for the planning, follow-up, control and delivery of the assignments ÅF is tasked with. The operational system’s implementation is continually monitored through ÅF’s internal audit program. ÅF has comprehensive insurance cover including public liability insurance, product liability insurance and consultant liability insurance. Capacity utilisation ÅF has a relatively high proportion of engineers workÅF has effective systems for sales support and managing and hourly rate ing within its clients' organisations, providing expertise expertise to ensure sustainable business relationships and and detailed knowledge. Competition is fierce and successful matching of expertise with the notified needs. it is essential to monitor the operation’s financial Regular follow-up and analysis is done to catch trends early. performance continuously, since every percentage point change in capacity utilisation and price per hour has an appreciable impact on ÅF’s annual profit. Every percentage point change in capacity utilisation affects ÅF’s profit by about plus/minus SEK 120 million. An increase in the price per hour of one percent, with unchanged capacity utilisation, improves ÅF’s annual profit by around SEK 90 million. Project operations Large assignments with great responsibility also The systems for sales support, managing expertise and interincrease risk exposure financially in the project result. nal training provide a basis for creating competent project orA fixed-price contract may involve an increased risk ganisations and achieving sustainable business relationships. if the time required to complete the assignment is not correctly estimated, which can lead to reduced ÅF’s Project/Assignment process implements procedures margins. that include calculation, inspection, tendering and contract reviews, risk analysis, project planning, verification and validation of delivery. Steering committees are formed to monitor progress, results and risks. ÅF conducts internal audits annually to ensure that the process and procedures are complied with and functions as intended. Partners, ÅF’s continued growth, both in respect of supplying ÅF has a process and a support system for evaluating and subcontractors professional engineers and complete project qualifying partners and subcontractors in order to ensure the organisations, is leading to an increasing need for right skills and conditions are in place to safeguard quality and subconsultants subcontractors with specialist expertise as well as deliveries. Business partner criteria is defined in line with the subcontractors that can supply specific project ÅF’s sustainability policy. planning services. ÅF is exposed to risk both when the company arranges an assignment and where partners are working in ÅF’s name as subcontractors in a project assignment. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 49 RISKS Strategic and operational risks Description Risk management Human resources As competition for qualified employees increases, so There is a strong focus on recruitment and induction activtoo does the pressure on ÅF to present itself as an ities. In order to retain and motivate employees of the right attractive employer. For an engineering and consulting calibre, ÅF invests in continual professional development, company to achieve its objectives, it is essential that skills development and management training (via the ÅF employees are motivated and have appropriate skills Academy, for example). Individual development plans are forand knowledge. There is always a risk that highly commulated at each employee’s annual performance review. petent employees may leave ÅF to join competitors or clients, or set up their own businesses. Employee surveys are carried out to ascertain how satisfied employees are with their work situation. Disputes There is a risk that disputes may arise in the course To prevent disputes, tenders and contracts are examined of ÅF’s business operations. Disputes may arise if carefully to ensure that there are no uncertainties in terms of ÅF disagrees with a client about the conditions that content and conditions. Verifications during an assignment pertain to a certain assignment. Disputes may also are part of the Project/Assignment process, as are procedures arise, for example, in conjunction with the acquisition for handling alterations and additions. Authorisation rules are of operations. defined such that certain tenders and contracts are always reviewed by a lawyer. Financial risks Description Risk management Financing and The financing risk faced by the Group is the risk of not Responsibility for the Group’s financial transactions and risks liquidity risks being able to raise new loans or refinance existing ones is handled centrally by the parent’s Treasury Department, on acceptable terms. The Group is also exposed to which implements the policy set by the Board of Direcliquidity risk, which is defined as the risk that it will not tors. There is a routine in place to ensure the availability of be able to meet its immediate payment obligations. appropriate lines of credit at all times. ÅF’s policy is that the company shall have a net debt over time, and that net debt in relation to EBITDA shall be 2.5. In accordance with the current policy, the company is to have cash and cash equivalents and unutilised credit facilities that together correspond to at least six percent of annual sales. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest ÅF’s exposure to interest rate risk relates chiefly to outstandrates may have a negative impact on the ing external loans. Under the current policy, ÅF raises loans Group’s net interest income/expense and cash flow. both at fixed and variable interest, but the average fixed-interest period must not exceed 12 months. If necessary, ÅF can use interest rate swaps to achieve the desired average duration. A change of one percentage point in market rates would have an effect of SEK 20 million on the Group’s interest expenses. Exchange rate risk Exchange rate risk refers to changes in exchange rates ÅF’s transaction exposure is relatively limited, as the majority which have a negative impact on the consolidated of sales and expenses are invoiced in local currencies. In acincome statement, balance sheet and cash flow. cordance with current policy, payment flows in foreign currencies are hedged when it is possible to determine the amount Exchange rate risk can be split into transaction expoand time of the transaction with a great degree of certainty, sure and translation exposure. Transaction exposure is and in cases where the future payment flow is anticipated to the net of operating and financial inflows and outflows exceed a value of EUR 100,000. in foreign currencies. ÅF’s largest operational transaction exposures involve the Translation exposure consists of the net assets and currency pairs EUR/SEK, USD/EUR and EUR/CHF. An unprofit/loss of foreign subsidiaries in foreign currency. hedged currency fluctuation of 10 percent in these currencies would affect ÅF’s operating profit by SEK 3.7 million, SEK 1.7 million and SEK 1.1 million respectively on an annual basis. In line with Group policy, ÅF does not hedge translation exposure. Credit risk ÅF’s commercial and financial transactions give rise The credit risk consists of outstanding accounts receivable to credit risks in respect of counterparties. Credit risk and uninvoiced consulting assignments. or counterparty risk is the risk of loss in the event that the counterparty does not fulfil its obligations. This risk is limited through ÅF’s highly effective credit policy. All new clients are vetted for creditworthiness and project services are invoiced on a pay-as-you-go basis to minimise the risk of bad debts. ÅF’s ten largest clients, which account for a total of 26 percent of Group sales, are all large listed companies or publicly owned institutions and companies. The remaining 74 percent of net sales is spread over many clients. 50 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Contents, Contents, financial financial statements statements 52 Consolidated income statement 52 Statement of consolidated comprehensive income 53 Consolidated balance sheet 55 Statement of change in consolidated equity 56 Statement of consolidated cash flows 57 Parent income statement 57 Parent statement of comprehensive income 58 Parent balance sheet 60 Statement of change in parent equity 61 Statement of cash flows for parent Notes 62 1. Accounting policies 67 2. Segment reporting 68 3. Acquisition of operations 69 4. Other operating income 69 5. Fees and reimbursement of auditors’ expenses 69 6. Employees and personnel costs 71 7. Other operating expenses 72 8. Acquisition-related items 72 9. Items affecting comparability 72 10. Financial items 72 11. Appropriations 72 12. Earnings per share and number of shares 73 13. Financial assets and liabilities 77 14. Intangible assets 78 15. Property, plant and equipment 78 16. Participations in associates and joint arrangements 79 17. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 79 18. Equity 79 19. Pension obligations 81 20. Other provisions 82 21. Taxes 83 22. Accrued expenses and prepaid income 83 23. Operating leases 83 24. Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and contingent assets 84 25. Related party transactions 84 26. Group companies 86 27. Untaxed reserves 86 28. Statement of cash flows 87 29. Events after end of reporting period 88 30. Critical estimates and judgements 88 31. Information on parent ÅF ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | 51 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement 1 January – 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 Net sales 2 12,658 11,070 Purchases of services and materials -3,192 -2,944 Other external costs 5, 23 -1,066 -917 Personnel costs 6 -7,269 -6,139 Other operating income 4 4 4 Other operating expenses 7 -3 -1 Profit attributable to participations in associates 16 0 0 EBITDA 1,132 1,074 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14, 15 -105 -82 EBITA 1,027 992 Acquisition-related items 8 6 -27 Operating profit (EBIT) 2, 9 1,033 965 Profit/loss from financial items Financial income 10 16 16 Financial expenses 10 -92 -58 Net financial items -76 -42 Profit after financial items 957 923 Tax 21 -215 -212 Profit for the period 742 711 Attributable to: Shareholders in the parent 744 726 Non-controlling interest -2 -15 742 711 Attributable to the parent’s shareholders 12 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 9.58 9.32 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 9.39 9.14 Statement of consolidated comprehensive income 1 January – 31 December (SEK million) 2017 2016 Profit for the period 742 711 Items which will be classified to profit or loss This year’s translation differences for foreign operations -44 112 Changes in hedge reserve 5 -11 Tax -1 2 Items which will not be classified to profit or loss Revaluation of defined-benefit pension plans 38 -5 Tax -7 1 Other comprehensive income -9 99 Comprehensive income for the period 733 810 Attributable to: Shareholders in the parent 735 818 Non-controlling interest -2 -8 733 810 52 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 2, 14 6,542 5,955 Property, plant and equipment 2, 15 510 476 Participations in associates 16 0 0 Financial investments 13 3 5 Non-current receivables 13 1 1 Deferred tax asset 21 14 24 Total non-current assets 7,070 6,462 Current assets Accounts receivable 13 2,721 2,314 Revenue generated but not invoiced 13 1,042 944 Current tax assets 21 15 17 Other receivables 151 195 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 157 146 Cash and cash equivalents 223 329 Total current assets 4,308 3,945 Total assets 11,378 10,407 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 53 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet, cont. As at 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 18 Share capital 196 197 Other contributed capital 1,015 1,104 Reserves 124 164 Profits brought forward including profit for the period 3,637 3,212 Equity attributable to shareholders in the parent 4,972 4,677 Non-controlling interest 17 19 Total equity 4,989 4,697 Liabilities Loans and credit facilities 13 1,559 2,197 Provisions for pensions 19 96 163 Other provisions 20 18 57 Deferred tax liabilities 21 180 140 Other liabilities 13 469 323 Total non-current liabilities 2,323 2,880 Loans and credit facilities 13 1,199 267 Other provisions 20 105 39 Work invoiced but not yet carried out 235 205 Accounts payable 716 644 Current tax liability 21 88 91 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 22 1,141 1,033 Other liabilities 13 583 552 Total current liabilities 4,067 2,830 Total liabilities 6,390 5,710 Total equity and liabilities 11,378 10,407 Net debt 2017 2016 Loans and credit facilities 2,758 2,464 Net pension liability 96 163 Cash and cash equivalents -223 -329 2,631 2,298 54 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Statement of change in consolidated equity Equity attributable to shareholders in the parent Other Retained profit contributed incl. profit for Non-­controlling SEK million Share capital capital Reserves the period Total interest Total equity Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2016 195 1,138 64 2,829 4,225 4 4,230 Profit for the period 726 726 -15 711 Other comprehensive income 96 -4 92 7 99 Comprehensive income for the period 96 722 818 -8 810 Dividends -292 -292 0 -292 Conversion of convertible bonds into shares (2013 programme) 2 77 79 79 Value of conversion option (2016 programme) 10 10 10 Tax on value of conversion option (2016 programme) -2 -2 -2 Share buy-backs/sales -128 -128 -128 Share plans 10 10 10 Shareholders’ contribution 2 2 Transactions related to non-controlling interest 3 -47 -43 21 -22 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2016 197 1,104 164 3,212 4,677 19 4,697 Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2017 197 1,104 164 3,212 4,677 19 4,697 Profit for the period 744 744 -2 742 Other comprehensive income -40 31 -9 0 -9 Comprehensive income for the period — — -40 775 735 -2 733 Dividends -350 -350 – -350 Conversion of convertible bonds into shares (2014 programme) 0 18 18 18 Value of conversion option (2017 programme) 12 12 12 Tax on value of conversion option (2017 programme) -3 -3 -3 Share buy-backs/sales -114 -114 -114 Cancellation of shares -2 2 — — Share plans -5 -5 -5 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2017 196 1,015 124 3,637 4,972 17 4,989 For supplementary information, see Note 18. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 55 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of consolidated cash flows 1 January – 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 Operating activities 28 Profit after financial items 957 923 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow 114 95 Income tax paid -211 -188 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 861 830 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in operating receivables -370 -356 Change in operating liabilities 133 148 Cash flow from operating activities 624 622 Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -85 -79 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 2 Acquisition of intangible assets -9 -20 Acquisition of operations 3 -359 -649 Contingent considerations paid and step acquisitions -74 -220 Acquisition/Disposal of financial assets 1 2 Cash flow from investing activities -525 -963 Financing activities Borrowings 1,048 831 Amortisation of loans -793 — Dividend paid (including non-controlling interest) -350 -292 Share buy-backs/sales -114 -128 Payout, convertible programme 0 -2 Shareholders’ contribution received — 2 Cash flow from financing activities -209 411 Cash flow for the period -109 70 Opening cash and cash equivalents 329 264 Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents 3 -5 Closing cash and cash equivalents 223 329 Change in consolidated net debt SEK million 2017 2016 Opening balance 2,298 1,486 Cash flow from operating activities -624 -622 Investments 92 97 Acquisitions and contingent considerations/options 433 917 Dividend 350 292 Share buy-backs/sales, own shares 114 128 Other -32 0 Closing balance 2,631 2,298 56 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PARENT COMPANY Parent income statement 1 January – 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 Operating income Net sales 561 456 Other operating income 4 202 202 763 658 Operating expenses Other external costs 5, 23 -427 -320 Personnel costs 6 -168 -149 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 14, 15 -35 -31 Other operating expenses 7 -195 -197 Operating profit/loss -62 -39 Profit/loss from financial items Profit from participations in Group companies 10 687 588 Interest income and similar profit/loss items 10 37 19 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 10 -63 -45 662 561 Profit after financial items 600 522 Appropriations 11 88 65 Pre-tax profit 687 588 Tax 21 -2 -1 Profit for the period 685 587 Parent statement of comprehensive income 1 January – 31 December (SEK million) 2017 2016 Profit for the period 685 587 Items which will be classified to profit or loss Changes in hedge reserve 5 -11 Tax -1 2 Other comprehensive income 4 -9 Comprehensive income for the period 689 579 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PARENT COMPANY Parent balance sheet As at 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 Non-current assets Intangible assets 14 11 19 Property, plant and equipment 15 115 107 Financial assets Participations in Group companies 26 1,821 5,718 Receivables from Group companies 25 37 Non-current receivables 8 9 Total non-current assets 1,955 5,890 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 0 0 Receivables from Group companies and associates 25 5,502 1,141 Other receivables 594 621 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 111 112 Total current receivables 6,208 1,875 Cash and bank balances 21 62 Total current assets 6,229 1,937 Total assets 8,184 7,828 58 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Parent balance sheet, cont. As at 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 18 Restricted equity Share capital 196 197 Statutory reserve 47 47 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 932 1,016 Fair value reserve -7 -11 Profit brought forward 2,832 2,599 Profit for the period 685 587 Total equity 4,685 4,436 Untaxed reserves 27 136 134 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 19 18 19 Deferred tax liability 21 5 4 Other provisions 20 133 63 Total provisions 156 85 Non-current liabilities Bond loan 13 1,200 1,200 Staff convertible 13 304 256 Liabilities to credit institutions 13 — 700 Liabilities to Group companies 25 0 0 Other liabilities 13 0 0 Total non-current liabilities 1,505 2,157 Current liabilities Staff convertible 13 126 18 Liabilities to credit institutions 13 1,003 190 Accounts payable 111 97 Liabilities to Group companies 25 365 632 Current tax liability 21 6 3 Other liabilities 13 23 22 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 22 69 53 Total current liabilities 1,703 1,016 Total equity and liabilities 8,184 7,828 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PARENT COMPANY Statement of change in parent equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Profit Statutory premium Fair value brought Profit for SEK million Share capital reserve reserve reserve forward the period Total equity Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2016 195 47 1,060 -2 2,227 654 4,181 Profit for the period 587 587 Other comprehensive income -9 -9 Comprehensive income for the period — — — -9 — 587 579 Appropriations 654 -654 – Dividends -292 -292 Conversion of convertible bonds into shares (2013 programme) 2 77 79 Value of conversion option (2016 programme) 10 10 Tax on value of conversion option (2016 programme) -2 -2 Share buy-backs/sales -128 -128 Cancellation of shares 0 Share plans 10 10 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2016 197 47 1,016 -11 2,599 587 4,436 Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2017 197 47 1,016 -11 2,599 587 4,436 Profit for the period 685 685 Other comprehensive income 4 4 Comprehensive income for the period — — — 4 — 685 689 Appropriations 587 -587 – Dividends -350 -350 Conversion of convertible bonds into shares (2014 programme) 0 18 18 Value of conversion option (2017 programme) 12 12 Tax on value of conversion option (2017 programme) -3 -3 Share buy-backs/sales -114 -114 Cancellation of shares -2 2 – Share plans -5 -5 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2017 196 47 932 -7 2,832 685 4,685 For supplementary information, see Note 18. 60 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Statement of cash flows for parent 1 January – 31 December (SEK million) Note 2017 2016 Operating activities 28 Profit after financial items 599 522 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow 142 14 Income tax paid -1 0 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 741 536 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in operating receivables -151 -539 Change in operating liabilities -233 -39 Cash flow from operating activities 357 -42 Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -31 -37 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 — Acquisition of intangible assets -4 -15 Acquisition of financial assets — 4 Acquisition of subsidiaries -168 -18 Shareholders’ contribution made -6 -330 Contingent considerations/options paid -17 -44 Cash flow from investing activities -226 -441 Financing activities Borrowings 1,030 874 Amortisation of loans -738 — Dividend paid -350 -292 Share buy-backs -114 -128 Conversion proceeds 0 -2 Cash flow from financing activities -173 452 Cash flow for the period -41 -30 Opening cash and cash equivalents 62 92 Closing cash and cash equivalents 21 62 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 61 NOTES Amounts are in SEK millions unless otherwise stated. Notes Note 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Compliance with standards and legal requirements 1.3.2 Future changes in accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will come into force on 1 January (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 2018, replacing IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and (IASB) and interpretations published by the International FinanMeasurement. IFRS 9 classifies financial assets in three different cial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) approved by the categories. Classification is determined at initial recognition based European Commission for application in the EU. In addition, the on asset characteristics and the company’s business model. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 (Supsecond part concerns hedge accounting. To a large extent, the plementary Accounting Rules for Groups) has been applied. new policies make it easier for a company to present a fair view The parent applies the same accounting policies as the Group of its management of financial risks with financial instruments. except in those cases specified below in the “Parent accounting Finally, new policies have been introduced regarding impairment of policies” section. The differences between the accounting policies financial assets, where the model is based on expected losses. One of the parent and the Group are due to limitations in the parent’s of the purposes of the new impairment model is to require that scope to apply IFRS imposed by the Swedish Annual Accounts Act reserves for credit losses be made at an earlier stage. The standard and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act (Tryggandelagen), and in is not expected to have any material impact on the consolidated some cases to tax reasons. or parent financial statements. The standard applies to the Group for the financial year beginning 1 January 2018. 1.2 Basis of preparation of the parent and consolidated financial statements IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers The parent’s functional currency is the Swedish krona (SEK), which IFRS 15 is the new standard for revenue recognition. IFRS 15 reis also the presentation currency for the parent and the Group. This places IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. 15 is based on the principle that revenue be recognised when the Assets and liabilities are recognised at cost, except for various customer takes control of the sold item or service. It replaces investments and liabilities which are carried at fair value. The financial the previous principle that revenue be recognised when the risks assets and liabilities which are carried at fair value are derivative and benefits of ownership have passed to the buyer. The staninstruments, contingent consideration and financial investments. dard applies to the Group from 1 January 2018. A company may The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS choose between full retroactivity or forward-looking application requires management to make judgements and estimates, and to with additional disclosures. ÅF intends to choose forward-looking make assumptions which affect the application of the accounting application. To estimate the quantitative impact of the new rules policies and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, income and on the financial statements, the Group evaluated the effect of the expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on historinew standard in 2017. The standard is deemed to have no signifi­ cal experience and several other factors deemed reasonable under cant impact on the financial statements besides the expanded the circumstances. The results of these estimates and assumpdisclosure requirements so there will be no adjustment made to tions are then used to judge the carrying amounts of assets and the opening balance. liabilities where these are not clear from other sources. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates and judgements. IFRS 16 – Leases Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes In January 2016, the IASB published a new lease standard, IFRS 16 in estimates are recognised in the period in which the change is Leases, which will replace IAS 17 Leases and associated interpremade if the change affects only that period, or in both the period tations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires lessees in which the change is made and future periods if the change to recognise assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for all affects both the current and future periods. Judgements made by leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying management in applying IFRS which have a significant effect on asset has a low value. Accounting is based on the approach that the financial statements, and estimates made which could result the lessee has the right to control the use of an identified asset in material adjustments in subsequent year’s financial statements, for a period and an obligation to pay for this right. Accounting for are described in more detail in Note 30. the lessor will essentially remain unchanged. The standard applies The following accounting policies for the Group have been apto annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. plied consistently to all periods presented in the Group’s financial Earlier application is permitted. ÅF is not planning to apply IFRS statements unless otherwise stated below. The Group’s accounting 16 early. At present, it is not possible to quantify the effects of inpolicies have been applied consistently in the reporting and controducing the standard, but it will have a significant effect on ÅF’s solidation of the parent, subsidiaries and the inclusion of associfinancial statements, as the Group has operating leases, primarily ates and joint ventures in the consolidated accounts. for premises. The Group’s leases, which are currently recognised as The annual report and consolidated financial statements were operating, can be found in Note 23. The detailed evaluation of the approved for release by the Board of Directors on 28 March 2018. effects of IFRS 16 will continue in 2018. The consolidated income statement and balance sheet and the Apart from the above, none of the IFRS or IFRIC interpretations parent income statement and balance sheet will be put forward for which have not yet become effective are estimated to have any adoption at the AGM on 25 April 2018. significant impact on the Group. 1.3 Amended accounting policies and disclosure requirements 1.4 Segment reporting 1.3.1 Amended and new accounting policies for the year Segment reporting is based on operating segments which consist Amended and new accounting policies have had no significant of the Group’s four divisions. This corresponds to the structure for effect on the Group. the CEO’s monitoring and management of operations. 62 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 1, cont. 1.5 Classification etc. 1.6.3 Transactions eliminated on consolidation In the financial statements for both the parent and the Group, Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses, and non-current assets and non-current liabilities consist essentialunrealised gains or losses arising on transactions between Group ly of amounts expected to be recovered or settled more than 12 companies, are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the months after the end of the reporting period. Current assets and consolidated financial statements. liabilities consist essentially of amounts expected to be recovered Unrealised gains arising on transactions with associates and or settled within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. joint arrangements are eliminated in proportion to the Group’s interests in the company. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the 1.6 Basis of consolidation same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is 1.6.1 Subsidiaries no indication of impairment. Subsidiaries are companies over which ÅF AB has a controlling influence. A controlling influence means, directly or indirectly, the 1.7 Foreign currencies power to govern a company’s financial and operating policies with 1.7.1 Transactions in foreign currency a view to deriving economic benefits. Subsidiaries are accounted Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional for using the acquisition method. This means that the acquisition currency at the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. of a subsidiary is treated as a transaction where the Group indiMonetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translatrectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities ed into the functional currency at the exchange rate in effect at and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is determined by the end of the reporting period. Exchange differences arising on means of an analysis undertaken in connection with a business translation are recognised in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets combination. The analysis determines the cost of participations and liabilities carried at cost are translated at the exchange rate in or businesses, the fair value of acquired identifiable assets and effect on the transaction date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities assumed liabilities, contingent liabilities and equity instruments carried at fair value are translated into the functional currency at issued as consideration for the net assets acquired. the exchange rate in effect when their fair value was determined, Goodwill is the difference between the cost of the shares in a and changes in exchange rates are then recognised in the same subsidiary and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities way as other changes in the value of the asset or liability. and contingent liabilities assumed. The functional currency is the currency of the primary economSubsidiaries’ financial statements are consolidated from the ic environments in which the companies in the Group operate. date of acquisition until the controlling influence is relinquished. The parent’s functional currency and presentation currency is the Swedish krona (SEK). The Group’s presentation currency is also the 1.6.2 Associates and joint arrangements Swedish krona (SEK). Associates Associates are companies over whose operational and financial 1.7.2 Financial statements of foreign operations management the Group exercises a significant but not controlling The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill influence, generally through a holding of 20-50 percent of the and other fair value adjustments, are translated into SEK at the votes. As from and including the date on which the controlling exchange rate in effect at the end of the reporting period. The influence is obtained, participations in associates are recognised income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into SEK in accordance with the equity method in the consolidated financial at an average exchange rate which approximates the exchange statements. rates on the various transaction dates. Translation differences arising on the translation of net investJoint arrangements ments in foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operation and income. When a foreign operation is sold, the accumulated transjoint venture. A joint operation arises when one party in a joint lation differences attributable to the operation are realised net of operation has direct rights to the assets and obligations for the any currency hedging in the consolidated income statement. liabilities in that joint arrangement. In such an arrangement, assets, liabilities, income and expenses are recognised in proportion to the 1.8 Revenue operator’s interest in these. A joint venture is a joint arrangement Revenue from services rendered is recognised in accordance whereby the parties that have joint control over the arrangement with IAS 18. The percentage of completion method is applied to have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Holdings in such all assignments whose outcome can be measured reliably. Most an arrangement are recognised using the equity method. assignments are performed on a current account basis, according to which revenue is recognised when the work is performed, and The equity method clients are normally invoiced the following month. Where assignThe equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in ments are carried out on a fixed-price basis, revenue is recognised the associate/joint venture recognised in the consolidated financial in profit or loss based on the stage of completion at the end of the statements consists of the Group’s share of the associate’s/joint reporting period. The stage of completion of an assignment is deventure’s equity plus goodwill and any other remaining fair value termined by comparing the expenditure at the end of the reporting adjustments. The Group’s share of the associate’s/joint venture’s net period with estimated total expenditure. If it is probable that the income after tax and non-controlling interests, adjusted for any detotal assignment expenditure will exceed the total assignment preciation/amortisation, impairment or reversal of fair value adjustrevenue, the anticipated loss is immediately recognised as an ments, is recognised in the consolidated income statement under expense in its entirety. Revenue is not recognised if it is probable profit/loss attributable to participation in associates. Any dividends that the economic benefits will not flow to the Group. In the event received reduce the carrying amount of the investment. of significant uncertainty about payment or associated expenses, Any difference at the time of acquisition between the cost of no revenue is recognised. the investment and the investor’s interest in the net fair value of the associate’s/joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 1.9 Operating expense and financial income and expense contingent liabilities is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 1.9.1 Operating leases Busines­s Combinations. Payments under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss If the Group’s interest in recognised losses exceeds the carrying on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Benefits received in amount of the shares in the consolidated balance sheet, the carryconnection with signing a lease are recognised as part of the total ing amount of the shares is reduced to zero. Further losses are not lease cost in profit or loss. Contingent rents are expensed in the recognised unless the Group has issued guarantees to cover losses periods in which they arise. arising. The equity method is applied until the significant influence is relinquished. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 63 NOTES Note 1, cont. 1.9.2 Finance leases Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount which it is Minimum lease payments are apportioned between interest expense estimated will be received, i.e. after the deduction of doubtful reand a reduction of the outstanding liability. The interest expense is ceivables and as the result of individual evaluation. Impairments of spread over the lease term to produce a constant periodic rate of accounts receivable are recognised in operating expense. interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. Other receivables are classified as non-current receivables if Contingent rents are expensed in the periods in which they arise. the holding period is longer than one year and if they are shorter than other receivables. 1.9.3 Financial income and expense Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, immediately accesFinancial income and expense consists of interest income on bank sible deposits with banks and similar institutions, and short-term balances and receivables, interest expense on loans, borrowing liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months from costs, dividend income and exchange differences on loans. the date of purchase, which are subject to only an insignificant risk Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liabilities of changes in value. are calculated using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate of interest that makes the present value 1.10.3 Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value of all future inflows and outflows over the life of the receivable or through profit or loss liability equal to its carrying amount. This category consists of two sub-groups: financial assets and liaThe interest component of finance lease payments is recognised bilities held for sale and other financial assets and liabilities which in profit or loss by applying the effective interest method. Interest the company has decided to place in this category. The second income includes accrued transaction costs and any discounts, sub-category includes contingent consideration. Assets and liabilpremiums or other differences between the original value of the ities in this category are measured continuously at fair value with receivable and the amount received at maturity. changes for the period recognised in profit or loss for the period. Borrowing costs are charged to profit and loss for the period to which they relate. Costs arising when raising a loan are divided 1.10.4 Other financial liabilities over the maturity of the loan based on the recognised liability. Loans and other financial liabilities, e.g. accounts payable, are Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payincluded in this category. The liabilities are valued at amortised ment has been ascertained. cost. Accounts payable have a short expected term and are valued without discounting to their nominal amount. 1.10 Financial instruments Non-current liabilities have an expected term longer than one Financial instruments recognised on the asset side of the balance year, while current liabilities have a term shorter than one year. sheet include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, Staff convertibles can be converted into shares by the countershares and other equity instruments, and derivatives. Included in party exercising an option to convert the instrument into shares. equity and liabilities are accounts payable, issued debt and equity Staff convertibles are recognised as a compound financial instruinstruments, borrowings, contingent considerations and derivatives. ment comprising a liability component and an equity component. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balThe fair value of the liability is calculated by discounting future ance sheet when the company becomes a party to the contractual cash flows using the current market interest rate for an equivalent terms of the instrument. Accounts receivable are recognised in liability without a conversion right. The value of the equity instruthe balance sheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are ment is calculated as the difference between the issue proceeds recognised once the counterparty has performed and there is a when the staff convertible was issued and the fair value of the contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been financial liability at the time of issue. Any deferred tax attributable received. Accounts payable are recognised when an invoice has to the liability on the date of issue is deducted from the carrying been received. amount of the equity instrument. The transaction costs relating A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when to the issue of a compound financial instrument are apportioned the rights in the contract are transferred or expire or the company between the liability component and the equity component in the loses control over them. The same applies to parts of a financial same proportions as the issue proceeds. The interest expense asset. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation in is recognised in profit or loss and calculated using the effective the contract is discharged or in some other way extinguished. The interest method. same applies to parts of a financial liability. Acquisition and disposal of financial assets are recognised 1.11 Derivatives and hedging on the trade date, which is the date on which the company makes Derivatives used for hedging future cash flows are recognised in a binding commitment to buy or sell the asset. the balance sheet at fair value. The changes in value are recognised in other comprehensive income until the hedged flow 1.10.1 Classification and valuation affects profit or loss, at which point the accumulated changes in Financial instruments that are not derivatives are recognised value of the hedging instrument are recycled into profit or loss initially at a cost equal to the fair value of the instrument plus simultaneously with the profit or loss effects of the hedged transtransaction costs for all financial instruments except those in action. Flows from both contracted and forecast transactions can the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category, be hedged. Gains and losses on hedging are recognised in profit which are recognised at fair value excluding transaction costs. A or loss on the same date as gains and losses on the hedged items financial instrument is classified on initial recognition based on the are recognised. Even if hedge accounting is not applied, increases purpose for which the instrument was acquired. The classification or decreases in the value of the derivative are recognised as indetermines how the financial instrument is to be valued after initial come or expense in operating profit/loss or in net financial income/ recognition, as described below. expense depending on the intention behind the use of the derivDerivative instruments are recognised initially at fair value, indicatative. With hedge accounting, the ineffective part of the hedge is ing that transaction costs are charged to profit or loss for the period. recognised in the same way as changes in the value of a derivative After initial recognition, derivative instruments are recognised in the that is not used for hedge accounting. manner described below. 1.12 Property, plant and equipment 1.10.2 Loans and receivables 1.12.1 Owned assets Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.. balance sheet if it is probable that future economic benefits These assets are valued at amortised cost. Amortised cost is deterwill flow to the company, and that the cost of the item can be mined based on the effective interest rate calculated on the date of measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are recognised acquisition. Assets with a short term are not discounted. in the consolidated financial statements at cost less accumulated 64 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 1, cont. depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost is defined as the 1.13.3 Subsequent expenditure purchase price plus any additional expenses directly attributable Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is recto bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it ognised as an asset in the balance sheet only if it increases the to be capable of operating in the intended manner. future economic benefits from the specific asset to which it relates. Property, plant and equipment which consist of parts with difAll other expenditure is recognised as an expense as it is incurred. ferent useful lives are treated as separate components of property, plant and equipment. 1.13.4 Amortisation The carrying amount of an asset is derecognised from the balAmortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis ance sheet on retirement or disposal or when no future economic over the estimated useful life of the asset, unless its useful life is benefits are expected to flow from the use or retirement/disposal indefinite. Amortisable intangible assets are amortised from the of the asset. The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement date they become available for use. of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount less direct costs to sell. The gain or loss is Estimated useful lives are: recognised under other operating income/expense. Capitalised development expenditure 1-3 years Outstanding orders 2-5 years Subsequent expenditure Client relationships 10-20 years Subsequent expenditure is added to the cost only if it is probable Trademarks 2-5 years that future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the company, and the cost can be measured reliably. 1.14 Impairment The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets — except for assets 1.12.2 Leased assets held for sale recognised in accordance with IFRS 5 and deferred Leased assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 17 (see tax assets — are tested at the end of each reporting period to Note 23). Leases are classified as either finance leases or operassess whether there is any indication of impairment. If there is ating leases in the consolidated financial statements. A lease is any such indication, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined. classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life are tested for risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise impairment annually or as soon as there are indications that the it is classified as an operating lease. Assets held under finance asset in question has diminished in value. The carrying amounts leases are recognised as assets in the consolidated balance sheet. of the exceptions stated above are tested in accordance with the The liability to make future lease payments is recognised under relevant standard. non-current and current liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis. 1.14.1 Impairment tests for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, as well as participations in subsidiaries and 1.12.3 Depreciation associates Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimatThe recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell ed useful life of an asset. Estimated useful lives are: and value in use. When calculating value in use, future cash flows are discounted at a discount rate which reflects the risk-free rate of IT equipment 3 years interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. For an asset Cars 5 years that does not generate cash flows that are essentially independent Office equipment 5 years of other assets, the value in use is calculated for the cash-generOffice furnishings 10 years ating unit to which the asset belongs. The impairment loss is the Buildings (owner-occupied properties) 40-100 years amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses in respect of cash-generating units Owner-occupied properties consist of several components with are allocated in the first instance to goodwill. Impairment is then different useful lives. The primary division is between buildings and applied to the other assets included in the unit on a pro rata basis. land. No depreciation is applied to the land component, which is regarded as having an unlimited useful life. The buildings, however, 1.14.2 Impairment test for financial assets consist of many components with varying useful lives. The useful At the end of each reporting period, the company assesses whethlives of these components have been assessed as varying between er there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of 40 and 100 years. assets requires impairment. Objective evidence consists both of The residual value and useful life of an asset are reviewed observable circumstances that have arisen which have a negative annuall­­y. effect on the ability to recover the acquisition cost, and of significant and long-lasting reductions in the fair value of an investment 1.13 Intangible assets designated as an available-for-sale financial asset. 1.13.1 Goodwill On the impairment of an equity instrument designated as an Goodwill is the difference between the cost of acquired businesses available-for-sale financial asset, accumulated losses already and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities and continrecognised in equity are reversed through profit or loss. gent liabilities assumed. The recoverable amount of assets in the loans and receivables Goodwill is apportioned between cash-generating units and category which are recognised at amortised cost is measured groups of cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairas the present value of the future cash flow discounted at the ment. Thus, goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impaireffective interest rate of the date on which the asset was first recment losses. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is ognised. Assets with a short term are not discounted. Impairment included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate. is charged to profit or loss. Where the cost of acquired businesses is less than the net fair value of the assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities 1.14.3 Reversal of an impairment loss assumed, the difference is recognised immediately in profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed if there are indications that the impairment requirement no longer exists and there has been a 1.13.2 Other intangible assets change in the assumptions which formed the basis for the meaOther intangible assets acquired by the Group are carried at cost surement of the recoverable amount. Impairment of goodwill is, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. however, never reversed. A reversal is carried out only to the extent Costs incurred in respect of internally generated goodwill and that the carrying amount after reversal does not exceed the carryinternally generated trademarks are recognised in profit or loss as ing amount which would have been recognised, less depreciation/ they are incurred. amortisation if appropriate, if no impairment had been applied. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 65 NOTES Note 1, cont. Impairment of loans and receivables that has been recognised lay off members of staff, a detailed plan is drawn up specifying at amortised cost is reversed if a subsequent increase in the as a minimum the location, function and approximate number of recoverable amount can be attributed objectively to an event employees involved, the benefits for each job classification or occurring after the impairment had been made. Impairment losses function, and the time at which the plan will be implemented. on equity instruments designated as available-for-sale financial assets that have already been recognised in profit or loss may not 1.17 Provisions subsequently be reversed through profit or loss. The impaired value A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a is the value from which subsequent revaluations are made, and present legal or constructive obligation from a past event, and when these are recognised in other comprehensive income. Impairment it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required losses on interest-bearing instruments designated as availableto meet this obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of for-sale financial assets are reversed in profit or loss if the fair the obligation can be made. Where the effect of the point in time value increases and the increase can be attributed objectively to when payment takes place is significant, provisions are calculatan event occurring after the impairment had been made. ed by discounting expected future cash flows at a rate of interest before tax that reflects current market assessments of the time 1.15 Dividends value of money and, where appropriate, the risks associated with the Dividends are recognised as a liability once they have been apliability. Provisions for restructuring are recognised once the Group proved at the Annual General Meeting. has adopted a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the work of restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. No 1.16 Employee benefits provisions are made for future operating expenses. 1.16.1 Defined-contribution pension plans Obligations in respect of contributions to defined contribution 1.18 Taxes pension plans are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when Income tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Income tax they arise. is recognised in profit or loss unless the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the tax 1.16.2 Defined benefit pension plans effect is recognised in other comprehensive income. The Group’s net obligations under defined-benefit plans are calCurrent tax is the tax payable or recoverable in respect of the culated separately for each plan by estimating the future benefits current year, based on the tax rates enacted or substantively enearned by employees through their employment in both current acted at the end of the reporting period, including adjustments of and prior periods. These benefits are discounted to present value. current tax in respect of prior periods. The discount rate is the interest rate at the end of the reporting Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance-sheet period on a high-quality investment-grade corporate bond with method starting from temporary differences between the carrying the term equivalent to the Group’s pension obligations. Where amount and the value for tax purposes of assets and liabilities. The there is no active market for corporate bonds of this type, the following temporary differences are disregarded: temporary differinterest rate on mortgage bonds with a corresponding term are ences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recused instead. The calculations are performed by a qualified actuary ognition of assets and liabilities which do not constitute business using the projected unit credit method. combinations and affect neither recognised nor taxable income at Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprethe time of the transaction; and temporary differences attributable hensive income for the period in which they arise. The Group’s net to investments in subsidiaries and associates, in cases where the liabilities, which are also recognised in the balance sheet for each parent, investor or joint owner can exert some influence over the defined-benefit plan, consist of the present value of obligations point in time when the temporary differences will be reversed and less the fair value of the plan assets. If the value of plan assets when it is not anticipated that this reversal will take place in the exceeds the value of the obligations, a surplus arises, and this is foreseeable future. The measurement of deferred tax is based on recognised as a plan asset under other receivables. Past service how the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are expected to costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss. be realised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates When a difference arises between the way in which pension and tax rules enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the costs are determined in the legal entity and Group, a provision or reporting period. receivable in respect of a special employers’ contribution based Deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differon this difference is recognised. The provision or receivable is not ences and loss carry-forwards are recognised only to the extent discounted to present value. that it is probable that they can be utilised. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer deemed probable that 1.16.3 Share-based payment they can be utilised. Under the share plan adopted by the AGM, employees are eligible Any additional income tax arising on the payment of dividends to receive performance-related matching shares for shares which is recognised at the same time as the dividend is recognised as a they have themselves purchased under the plan. For these share liability. plans, payroll expenses for matching shares are recognised during the vesting period (three years) based on the fair value of the 1.19 Contingent liabilities shares on the date on which the employee purchased shares under A contingent liability is recognised when there is a potential oblithe plan. Provisions for estimated social security contributions are gation relating to past events whose existence will be confirmed made during the vesting period. The buy-back of shares to meet only by one or more uncertain future events, or when there is obligations under outstanding share plans is recognised in equity. an obligation which is not recognised as a liability or provision because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be 1.16.4 Convertible programme required, or the amount cannot be measured reliably. The Group has issued convertible bonds targeted to employees. The convertible is divided into a financial liability and a conver1.20 Earnings per share sion option, which is recognised as equity. The programmes do not The calculation of earnings per share is based on the consolidated entail any personnel costs. profit or loss attributable to the parent’s shareholders and on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. In 1.16.5 Termination benefits calculating earnings per share after dilution, the profit or loss and A provision is made for termination benefits only when the compathe average number of shares are adjusted to take account of the ny is demonstrably committed to terminating employment before effects of potential diluting ordinary shares, which derive during the normal date, or when the benefits are based on an offer made the reporting periods from matching shares in the share plan and to encourage voluntary redundancy. If the company is obliged to the staff convertible programme. 66 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 1, cont. 1.21 Parent accounting policies specified debtor not making due payments under the terms of the The parent has prepared its annual report in accordance with contract. In recognising financial guarantees, the parent applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish RFR 2, which involves a relaxation of the rules of IAS 39 in respect Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for of financial guarantees issued for the benefit of subsidiaries and Legal Entities. RFR 2 requires that the parent’s annual report apply associates. The parent recognises financial guarantees as a proviall IFRS standards and interpretations approved by the EU as far sion in the balance sheet when the company has an obligation for as is possible within the constraints of the Annual Accounts Act which payment is probably necessary to settle the obligation. and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act (Tryggandelagen), and while considering the relationship between reporting and taxation. 1.21.4 Employee benefits The recommendation specifies which exceptions and supplements Defined-benefit pension plans are to be made with respect to IFRS. The differences between the In calculating defined-benefit pension plans, the basis for calcuaccounting policies of the Group and parent are presented below. lation applied by the parent differs from that set out in IAS 19. The The accounting policies outlined below have been applied consisparent complies with the provisions of the Pension Obligations tently to all periods presented in the parent’s financial statements. Vesting Act and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s rules since these are a condition for tax deductibility. The most Differences between the accounting policies of the Group and significant differences compared with IAS 19 are the method for parent determining the discount rate, the calculation of defined-benefit 1.21.1 Subsidiaries and associates obligations based on current salary levels without assumptions on Shares in subsidiaries and associates are recognised in the parent future salary increases and the recognition of all actuarial gains using the cost method. Acquisition costs are recognised as shares and losses in profit or loss when they arise. in subsidiaries instead of being expensed. Dividends received are recognised as income. 1.21.5 Taxes The parent recognises untaxed reserves including deferred tax 1.21.2 Property, plant and equipment liability. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves Leased assets are apportioned between a deferred tax liability and equity. The parent recognises all leases based on the rules for operating leases. 1.21.6 Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions for legal entities 1.21.3 Financial guarantees Group contributions both made and received are recognised as The parent’s financial guarantee contracts consist mainly of appropriations. Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly guarantees in favour of subsidiaries and associates. Financial in equity by the recipient and are capitalised as participations by guarantees mean that the company has an obligation to reimthe contributor, insofar as impairment is not required. burse holders of a debt instrument for losses they suffer through a Note 2 Segment reporting Group-wide and Industry Infrastructure International Technology eliminations Group Income and expense 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sales to external clients 4,770 4,301 4,536 3,964 1,511 1,080 1,859 1,725 -17 — 12,658 11,070 Sales between segments 119 136 81 73 21 19 84 68 -305 -295 — — Net sales 4,889 4,437 4,616 4,037 1,532 1,098 1,943 1,793 -322 -295 12,658 11,070 Operating expense -4,447 -4,026 -4,131 -3,598 -1,401 -1,028 -1,757 -1,625 210 281 -11,526 -9,996 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0 0 -2 -1 -2 -2 0 0 -11 -12 -16 -15 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment -9 -8 -23 -16 -18 -10 -1 -1 -38 -32 -89 -67 EBITA 433 403 461 421 111 58 185 167 -162 -58 1,027 992 Acquisition-related items — — — — -1 — — — 7 -27 6 -27 EBIT 433 403 461 421 110 58 185 167 -155 -58 1,033 965 EBITA margin, % 8.9 9.1 10.0 10.4 7.2 5.3 9.5 9.3 — — 8.1 9.0 Total growth, % 10.2 7.0 14.4 29.7 39.5 -6.9 8.4 8.5 — — 14.3 12.4 of which organic growth, % 4.9 2.1 3.0 7.6 -3.7 -7.4 5.4 6.9 — — 3.3 2.9 Operating segments whose sales amount to 10 percent or more of the Group’s total sales. The Group’s operating structure and internal reporting to the CEO Historical figures are adjusted based on the organisational is based on accounting by divisions. The aim is to classify the dichanges implemented on 1 January 2017, where ÅF Technology AS visions based on their clients and their own expertise. Intra-group (formerly ÅF AdvansIT AS) was transferred from the Infrastructure sales between segments are based on an internal market price, Division to the Technology Division. calculated on an arms-length basis, i.e. as between parties who During the second half of 2017 a major organisational change are mutually independent, well-informed and with an interest in was implemented that affected all four divisions and 21 business completing the transactions. areas to varying degrees. The change, effective from 1 January The Group-wide items refer to traditional parent functions. The 2018, aims to create clarity and well-defined divisions and busiaccounting policies governing operating segments are the same as ness areas that have full responsibility for profitability in a decenthose applied in the Group in general. There are no individual clients tralised governance model. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 67 NOTES Note 2, cont. Non-current Income from external clients has been attributed to individual Net sales assets countries based on the country from which the sale was made. By geographical area 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sweden 9,504 8,658 4,597 4,175 Norway 1,189 1,147 966 1,024 Switzerland 891 443 783 827 Other countries 1,073 823 705 405 Total 12,658 11,070 7,052 6,431 Note 3 Acquisition of operations Acquisitions 2017 Goodwill In 2017, ÅF acquired all the shares in AB Teknoplan, Midtconsult Goodwill refers primarily to human capital in the form of staff A/S, Quality Engineering Group AB, Vatten & Miljöbyrån i Sverige expertise, as well as synergy effects. Goodwill from acquisitions is AB, Teroc AB, Cecon AB, Koncept Stockholm AB, Eitech AB Autonot expected to be tax-deductible. For asset acquisitions, goodwill mation, KIAB Konsult & Installationstjänst AB, Light Bureau Ltd, Inis tax-deductible in some countries. Non-controlling interest Use Experience AB and Digifex AB. The acquired companies added arising from an acquisition is recognised at fair value, which means approximately 500 employees to ÅF’s roster. None of the acquithat non-controlling interest has a measure of goodwill. sitions is substantial, and for that reason they are all recognised together in the table below. Contingent consideration and option Agreed upon contingent considerations in the acquired companies Effects of acquisitions relate to the performance of each company for up to three years. The table below shows the effect of the 2017 acquisitions on Total contingent consideration for the companies acquired during consolidated assets and liabilities. The acquisition analyses are the year is a maximum of SEK 321 million (301). For further inforpreliminary since fair value has not been determined for all items. mation on contingent consideration, see Note 13. Total net assets of acquired companies Acquisition-related expenditure at date of acquisition, 2017 Transaction costs are recognised in Other external costs in profit Identifiable Fair value or loss. assets and Fair value recognised in 2017 liabilities adjustment the Group Acquired receivables Intangible assets 6 44 51 The fair value of the acquired receivables is expected to be settled Property, plant and equipment 9 9 in full. The agreed gross values are essentially equivalent to the fair Financial assets 1 1 values of the receivables. Accounts receivable and other receivables 145 145 Revenue from acquired companies During the year, acquired companies/operations contributed SEK Cash and cash equivalents 31 31 336 million (734) to consolidated revenue. If the above-mentioned Deferred tax -15 -10 -25 acquisitions had been executed on 1 January 2017, they would Accounts payable, loans and have contributed net sales of SEK 601 million (1524). other liabilities -148 -148 Net identifiable assets Fixed acquisition analyses in 2017 and liabilities 28 35 63 In 2017, previously preliminary acquisition analyses were fixed for Non-controlling interest the acquisitions of Alteco AB, ÅF Reinertsen Deal Sverige AB, Goodwill 624 Erstad & Lekven Oslo AS, AF Reinertsen AS, Sandellsandberg AB, Consideration including estimated Optiman Proskektledelse AS, TrafficTeam A/S, Ingenjörsprojekt contingent consideration/option 687 Sverige AB, Sjöland & Thyselius AB, Solid Engineering AS, AF-­ Transaction costs 0 Aries SA, AF Toscano AG and two minor operations acquisitions. Less: Consequently, previously recognised goodwill decreased by SEK 22 million. Cash (acquired) -31 Estimated contingent Acquisitions 2016 consideration/option -293 In 2016, ÅF acquired and took over all shares in Alteco AB, ÅF Other assets Reinertsen Deal Sverige AB, Erstad & Lekven Oslo AS, ÅF ReinertNet cash outflow 1 363 sen AS, Sandellsandberg AB, Optiman Projektledelse AS, Traffic 1) In addition to the above, an adjustment of cash from acquisitions in Team A/S, Ingenjörsprojekt Sverige AB, Sjöland & Thysélius AB, prior years had an effect of SEK -4 million on cash flow. Solid Engineering AS, AF-Aries SA, AF Toscano AG and net asset acquisition Reinertsen Oil & Gas along with two small operations in Sweden. The acquired companies added approximately 1,380 employees to ÅF’s roster. None of the acquisitions is substantial, and for that reason they are all recognised together in the table below. AB Teknoplan and Midtconsult P/S were also acquired in 2016. These companies were consolidated as of the takeover date of 1 January 2017. Acquisition analyses were prepared for them in 2017. 68 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 3, cont. Total net assets of acquired companies at date of acquisition, 2016 “Audit assignments” refers to the auditing of the annual report, Identifiable Fair value the accounting records and the administration by the Board of assets and Fair value recognised in Directors and the CEO, other duties which it is incumbent upon 2016 liabilities adjustment the Group the company’s auditors to carry out, as well as advice and other Intangible assets 17 72 89 assistance stemming from observations made during such audits Property, plant and equipment 45 9 54 or the execution of such other duties. Financial assets 21 — 21 Accounts receivable and other receivables 398 — 398 Note 6 Cash and cash equivalents 172 — 172 Deferred tax — -13 -13 Employees and personnel costs Accounts payable and other liabilities -419 — -419 Average number of full-time employees (FTEs) by gender Net identifiable assets and liabilities 234 68 302 2017 2016 Non-controlling interest -102 Parent Women Men Total Women Men Total Goodwill 968 Sweden 70 47 118 79 45 123 Consideration including estimated contingent consideration/option 1,168 Subsidiaries Transaction costs 2 Sweden 1,628 5,285 6,913 1,446 4,968 6,414 Less: Norway 248 476 724 194 456 650 Cash (acquired) -172 Switzerland 128 468 596 53 184 237 Estimated contingent Denmark 86 293 380 27 119 146 consideration/option -307 Czech Republic 36 146 182 38 162 200 Other assets -41 Finland 32 105 137 32 115 147 Net cash outflow 649 Spain 17 31 49 12 18 30 India 2 37 39 3 34 37 Brazil 6 31 37 1 8 9 Note 4 Turkey 6 26 32 7 22 29 Estonia 4 24 27 7 30 38 Other operating income Russia 6 15 21 7 14 20 Germany 1 9 10 1 7 8 Group 2017 2016 Other 13 12 25 6 11 17 Exchange gains 0 2 Group total 2,284 7,008 9,292 1,918 6,197 8,115 Government grants 4 3 4 4 Gender distribution on the Board of Directors and in Group management Other operating income of SEK 201 million (202) in the parent largeWomen, % ly relates to the re-invoicing of rental charges, chiefly to subsidiaries. Group 2017 2016 Board of Directors 30 30 Group management 20 36 Note 5 Salaries, other remuneration and social security contributions Fees and reimbursement of auditors’ expenses 2017 2016 Social Social Salaries and security Salaries and security Group Parent remuneracontriburemuneracontribuGroup tion tions tion tions 2017 2016 2017 2016 Board of Directors and Auditing firm KPMG Group management 50 26 42 22 Audit assignments 5 — 1 — of which annual variable Tax advice 0 — 0 — remuneration 11 3 11 3 Other services 0 — 0 — of which pension costs1 — 12 — 9 6 — 1 — Other employees 5,143 1,869 4,296 1,634 Auditing firm EY of which annual variable Audit assignments 1 6 — 1 remuneration 146 49 141 44 Tax advice 0 0 0 0 of which pension costs1 — 607 — 503 Other services 1 1 1 1 5,193 1,895 4,338 1,656 2 6 1 1 Other auditors Audit assignments 0 0 — — Tax advice 0 0 — — Other services 1 0 — — 1 1 0 — ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 69 NOTES Note 6, cont. 2017 2016 Fees in SEK 2016 Social Social Board of Salaries and security Salaries and security Director Directors Committee Total remuneracontriburemuneracontribuParent tion tions tion tions Marika Fredriksson 267,500 45,000 312,500 Board of Directors and CEO 15 7 12 6 Staffan Jufors 267,500 — 267,500 of which annual variable Anders Narvinger 625,000 100,000 725,000 remuneration 5 1 3 1 Björn O. Nilsson 267,500 25,000 292,500 of which pension costs1 — 3 — 3 Maud Olofsson 267,500 — 267,500 Other employees 87 48 80 40 Joakim Rubin 267,500 50,000 317,500 of which annual variable Kristina Schauman 267,500 100,000 367,500 remuneration 8 3 10 3 Anders Snell 267,500 45,000 312,500 of which pension costs1 — 20 — 15 Total 2,497,500 365,000 2,862,500 102 56 92 47 1) Including statutory charges Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives in accordance Annual variable remuneration with the resolution of the 2017 AGM Within ÅF’s divisions, there are different systems of variable remuÅF Group policy is that remuneration should be on competitive neration for employees. Remuneration may either be based on the market terms, as this will facilitate recruitment and enable the division’s performance or linked directly to individual performance. Group to retain senior executives. ÅF applies the grandfather principle, which means that terms and conditions of employment Remuneration of the Board of Directors must always be approved by the immediate superior of the manThe AGM held on 25 April 2017 approved remuneration, including ager who negotiated the terms and conditions. The remuneration remuneration for committee work, totalling SEK 3,285,000 for the package for senior executives consists of basic salary, a variable work of the Board in 2017. The Chairman received SEK 725,000 salary element, long-term incentive programmes and pension and other members of the Board of Directors not employed by the entitlements. Other remuneration may be awarded, primarily in the Group received SEK 310,000 each. form of the use of a company car. Fees for committee work of SEK 50,000 are to be paid to each The Board of Directors shall ensure that there is an appropriate member of the Audit Committee not employed in the Group, SEK balance between fixed and variable elements of the remuneration 45,000 to each member of the Remuneration Committee not package. employed in the Group, SEK 125,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and SEK 75,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Basic salary and variable remuneration Committee. Remuneration packages are renegotiated annually. Remuneration is The remuneration of the Board of Directors is determined annubased on factors such as duties, expertise, experience, position and ally at the AGM and relates to the period until the next AGM. This performance. The apportionment between basic salary and variable means that the remuneration to the Board of Directors was at the remuneration is also related to the individual’s position and duties. rate determined by the AGM in 2016 for the first two quarters and The annual variable element for the CEO and senior executives is a at the rate determined by the AGM in 2017 for the remaining two maximum of 60 percent of the fixed annual salary. The fixed annual quarters of the year. salary is the current monthly salary multiplied by 12. The variable In addition, the employee representatives on the Board received element is based on outcomes in relation to targets. The targets and a total of SEK 48,000 (48,000). salary for the CEO are determined by the Board of Directors. For other No agreements have been signed concerning future pensions or senior executives, these are set by the Remuneration Committee. severance pay for the Chairman or other members of the Board. Long-term incentive programmes Key personnel within the ÅF Group may be offered a range of Fees in SEK 2017 long-term incentive programmes. The emphasis is on share-based Board of Director Directors Committee Total incentive programmes, with the object of rewarding performance, increasing and spreading ownership among senior executives and Gunilla Berg 155,000 25,000 180,000 providing an inducement for them to remain with the company. A Marika Fredriksson 137,500 22,500 160,000 personal, long-term ownership commitment among key personnel Staffan Jufors 292,500 — 292,500 can be expected to stimulate interest in the business and its future Anders Narvinger 687,500 75,000 762,500 performance and to increase motivation and a sense of affinity Björn O. Nilsson 292,500 50,000 342,500 with the company, resulting in the retention of valuable expertise. Maud Olofsson 292,500 — 292,500 Decisions on the details of long-term incentive programmes have been delegated to the Board of Directors, with the proviso Joakim Rubin 292,500 47,500 340,000 that share-based and share-price-based programmes are to be Kristina Schauman 292,500 112,500 405,000 submitted to the Annual General Meeting for approval. Anders Snell 292,500 45,000 337,500 Total 2,735,000 377,500 3,112,500 Pensions Senior executives have defined-contribution pension plans with market-based premiums. All pension benefits are vested, and are not, therefore, dependent on future employment. Remuneration in accordance with the long-term incentive programme does not qualify for pension entitlement. Termination of employment and severance pay The period of notice for the CEO is 12 months from the company’s side, and the CEO is entitled to 12 months’ severance pay. The period of notice from the CEO’s side is 6 months. The period of notice for other senior executives is normally 12 70 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 6, cont. months from the company’s side and 6 months from the senior ÅF has no outstanding retirement benefit obligations to current executive’s side. or former members of the Board of Directors and/or Presidents. Full salary continues to be payable during the period of notice. Proposal and decision process The level of remuneration paid to the CEO is set by the Board of Long-term variable remuneration Directors following a proposal drafted by the Board’s Remuneration Staff convertible Committee. Remuneration paid to other senior executives is set by In 2015, ÅF AB issued convertibles directed to key staff members the Remuneration Committee. totalling SEK 130 million. The loan runs with an annual interest of Stibor 180 and a margin of 1.65 with effect from 20 August 2015. Cost of remuneration of the CEO and other members of Conversion may be called during the period from 15 June 2018 to Group management 15 March 2019. The conversion price is SEK 134.10. A commercial 2017 interest rate for the corresponding liability without conversion right Other memhas been estimated at Stibor 180 and a margin of 4.10. bers of Group In 2016, ÅF AB issued convertibles directed to key staff memCEO management2 Total bers totalling SEK 142 million. The loan runs with an annual interest Salary including daily allowance 8 29 37 of Stibor 180 and a margin of 1.50 with effect from 17 August 2016. Provisions for annual variable Conversion may be called during the period from 14 June 2019 to remuneration earned during the 13 March 2020. The conversion price is SEK 170.20. A commercial current year 5 7 11 interest rate for the corresponding liability without conversion right Provisions for long-term variable has been estimated at Stibor 180 and a margin of 3.68. remuneration 0 0 0 In 2017, ÅF AB issued convertibles directed to key staff members Pension costs1) 3 9 12 totalling SEK 180 million. The loan runs with an annual interest of Other social security contributions 4 10 14 Stibor 180 and a margin of 1.19 with effect from 17 August 2017. Conversion may be called during the period from 15 June 2020 to Total 19 54 73 15 March 2021. The conversion price is SEK 221.90. A commercial interest rate for the corresponding liability without conversion right 2016 has been estimated at Stibor 180 and a margin of 3.65. The conOther memvertible programmes are not conditional on continued employment bers of Group CEO management Total during the terms of the convertible programmes. Salary including daily allowance 6 20 26 Performance share plan Provisions for annual variable remuneration earned during the Employees who participate in the performance share plan (PSP) current year 3 8 11 saved an amount equivalent to a maximum of five percent of their Provisions for long-term variable fixed salaries, which was used to purchase shares. Senior execuremuneration 1 2 2 tives may be given the right to performance matching of up to four Pension costs1) 3 7 9 shares, Group management up to five shares and the CEO up to six shares for each share purchased within the PSPs. To qualify for Other social security contributions 3 9 12 performance matching, the individual concerned must also have Total 15 45 60 been employed during the entire three-year period from the begin1) Including statutory charges. ning of the respective plan. 2) Including severance pay. A condition for performance matching is that ÅF’s average annual percentage increase in earnings per share meets certain tarPresident/CEO gets. The base value for the calculation of the increase in earnings The remuneration of the CEO has been based on the “Guidelines per share is the total of earnings per share for the four quarters for the remuneration of senior executives” as set out above. immediately preceding the implementation of a new share plan. The fixed basic salary of the CEO was SEK 8 million (6). The CEO Before the number of performance shares for matching is finally also has the use of a company car. Annual variable remuneration determined, the Board of Directors will consider whether perforis based on the Group's results, as well as several pre-set targets, mance matching is reasonable. If the minimum performance has and may amount to a maximum of 60 percent of fixed basic salary. not been achieved, no performance matching shares will be issued. There is also a special incentive program for the CEO that is tied In addition to performance matching, employees will be allocated to the company’s growth target up to 2020. The amount of remuClass B shares free of charge, equivalent to the number saved. neration depends on the share price development between the The expense is calculated and recognised as a period allocation first quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2021. of a straight-line estimated expense over three years for each plan. The CEO also participates in ÅF’s long-term incentive proThe cost includes social security contributions for the countries in grammes. which they arise. The last share plan expires in 2018. The CEO’s retirement benefit plan is defined-contribution, and an annual provision equivalent to 40 percent of the year’s basic salary is made for this. Note 7 Full salary continues to be payable during the period of notice. An obligation to work during the period of notice may apply for a maximum of one year. Other operating expenses Group management, excluding the President/CEO Group 2017 2016 The Group management team consists of 9 (10) individuals exExchange losses 3 — cluding the President/CEO. The remuneration of Group management has been based on the Capital loss on disposal of non-current assets 0 1 “Guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives” as set out 3 1 above. Group management have defined-contribution retirement benefits, Other operating expenses of SEK 195 million (197) in the parent towards which an amount equivalent to 30 percent of basic salary is relate primarily to rental charges. allocated annually. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 71 NOTES Note 8 Note 11 Acquisition-related items Appropriations Group 2017 2016 Parent 2017 2016 Amortisation and impairment of Difference between recognised depreciation intangible non-current assets -38 -33 and depreciation according to plan -2 -5 Revaluation of contingent Group contribution received 90 70 considerations/options 44 6 88 65 6 -27 To improve analysis between periods, acquisition-related items are reported separately here. Note 12 Earnings per share and number of shares Note 9 Basic earnings per Diluted earnings per share share Items affecting comparability 2017 2016 2017 2016 Earnings per share 9.58 9.32 9.39 9.14 Group 2017 2016 Restructuring -90 -25 The calculation of the numerator and denominator used in the Repayment of pensions — 22 above calculations of earnings per share is specified below. -90 -3 Basic earnings per share To improve analysis between periods, items affecting comparability The calculation of earnings per share for 2017 has been based are reported separately here. on the profit for the period attributable to the parent’s ordinary shareholders, amounting to SEK 744 million (726) and on a weighted average number of outstanding shares in 2017 amounting to Note 10 77,700,879 (77,937,176). Financial items Diluted earnings per share In calculating diluted earnings per share, the weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares was adjusted for the dilution effect Group 2017 2016 of all outstanding potential ordinary shares. In calculating diluted Interest income1 5 4 earnings per share, outstanding ordinary shares have been adjustExchange gains 11 12 ed for a potential dilution effect for shares in outstanding share Financial income 16 16 plans, as well as staff convertibles. Interest expense1 -48 -35 Profit attributable to the parent’s diluted ordinary shares Interest expense, discounting of contingent considerations -17 -3 2017 2016 Other financial expenses -11 -7 Profit attributable to the parent’s ordinary shares 744 726 Exchange losses -16 -13 Reversal of interest expense for Financial expense -92 -58 staff convertibles 8 7 Financial items -76 -42 752 733 Parent 2017 2016 Dividends from Group companies 699 650 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding Impairment of shares in Group companies -12 -63 2017 2016 Results from participations in Group companies 687 588 Weighted average number of basic ordinary shares during the year 77,700,879 77,937,176 Interest income, Group companies 28 11 Effect of outstanding PSPs 180,625 299,082 Interest income 0 0 Effect of outstanding staff convertibles 2,288,377 1,984,108 Exchange gains 46 8 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares during the year 80,169,882 80,220,366 Interest income and similar profit/loss items 74 19 Interest expense, Group companies -1 0 Interest expense, discounting of contingent considerations/options -2 — Interest expense1 -50 -36 Exchange losses -47 -9 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items -100 -45 Financial items 662 561 1) Includes interest on pension provisions. 72 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 12, cont. Total number of shares 2016 Total number Of which Total number of Class A shares Class B shares of shares own shares outstanding shares Opening balance 2016 3,217,752 74,847,541 78,065,293 476,971 77,588,322 Conversion to shares (convertible programme) — 848,460 848,460 — 848,460 Share buy-backs — — — 775,684 -775,684 Matching shares for share plans — — — -49,905 49,905 Closing balance 2016 3,217,752 75,696,001 78,913,753 1,202,750 77,711,003 2017 Total number Of which Total number of Class A shares Class B shares of shares own shares outstanding shares Opening balance 2017 3,217,752 75,696,001 78,913,753 1,202,750 77,711,003 Cancellation — -835,488 -835,488 -835,488 — Conversion to shares (convertible programme) — 183,600 183,600 — 183,600 Share buy-backs — — — 648,416 -648,416 Matching shares for share plans — — — -76,393 76,393 Closing balance 2017 3,217,752 75,044,113 78,261,865 939,285 77,322,580 The total number of shares is divided into class A shares (10 votes per share) and class B shares (1 vote per share). As per the articles of association, the maximum permitted number of shares is one Note 13 hundred million (100,000,000). Financial assets and liabilities The Group’s overall financial risk management policy is intended to Credit risk reduce financial risks at a cost that is reasonable for AF. The aim Credit risk is a result of the company always having a substanis to ensure cost-effective financing while minimising the negative tial number of outstanding accounts receivables, as well as fees effects of market fluctuations on consolidated profit/loss. Derivaearned but not invoiced, that is, the credit granted to clients. This tive instruments are used to hedge some risk exposure. risk is limited through the Group’s established policies for ensuring The Group’s risk management is handled centrally by the Group that sales are made to clients with an appropriate payment hisTreasury Department based on policies adopted by the Board of tory, and through advance payments. ÅF’s ten largest clients, who Directors. The Treasury Department identifies, evaluates and hedges together account for 26 percent of consolidated sales, are all large financial risks in close collaboration with the Group’s operating units. listed companies with good credit ratings or government institut­ The Group is exposed to different kinds of financial risk through ions and companies. The remaining 74 percent of net sales is its operations, including exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, credit spread over many clients. There is, therefore, not deemed to be any risk and financing risk. significant credit risk regarding any single major client. Counterparties for derivative contracts and cash transactions are limited Exchange rate risk to financial institutions with a high credit rating. Historically ÅF Exchange rate risk covers future business transactions, recognised has suffered only very limited credit losses. assets and liabilities in foreign currency, and net investments in foreign operations. Exchange rate risk is relatively limited in the Financing risk ÅF Group. Financing risk is the risk of not being able to obtain financing at Loans are raised and investments made in the local currency for all, or only at a greatly inflated price. For ÅF, prudent management each company through ÅF’s central Treasury Department. of financing risk means having adequate cash and cash equivalents and committed credit lines. The Group has credit facilities at Translation exposure banks amounting to SEK 2,500 million, of which SEK 1,498 million Translation exposure consists of the net assets and profit/loss of was unutilised at the end of the reporting period. The company foreign subsidiaries in foreign currency. In line with Group policy, also finances itself in the capital market through commercial paper ÅF does not hedge translation exposure. and bond loans. Transaction exposure Sensitivity analysis Exchange rate risks are relatively limited as most payments are Interest made in the local currency for each company. Where this is not the Of the Group’s borrowings at the end of the reporting period, loans case, any large sums are hedged using derivatives. The Group clasat floating interest rates comprised 100 percent of all borrowings, sifies the forward contracts used for hedging forecast transactions but 44 percent of the loans were converted at a fixed interest rate as cash flow hedges. through interest rate swaps. A change in the average annual interest rate on these loans of +/1 percent affects interest expense Interest rate risk by +/SEK 20 million. The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are kept in central cash pools or in bank accounts in local banks. There are no other signifiCurrency cant interest-bearing assets otherwise. Transaction exposure is relatively limited, as most sales and exLoans and credit facilities consist of bank loans, commerpenses are invoiced in local currencies. Flows in foreign currency are also hedged according to certain criteria in ÅF’s policy. ÅF’s cial papers, bond loans and staff convertibles at both fixed and largest operational transaction exposures involve the currency floating interest rates. Interest swaps are used to convert floating pairs EUR/SEK, USD/EUR and EUR/CHF. An unhedged currency interest to fixed. fluctuation of 10 percent in these currencies would affect ÅF’s ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 73 NOTES Note 13, cont. operatin­­g profit/loss by SEK 4 million, SEK 2 million and Closing day rate 2017 2016 SEK 1 million respectively on an annual basis. CHF 8.43 8.91 In line with ÅF’s policy, ÅF does not hedge translation exposure. CZK 0.38 0.35 An isolated change of 10 percent in the SEK exchange rate in 2017 against all other currencies would affect operating profit/loss by a DKK 1.32 1.29 net of SEK 21 million. EUR 9.85 9.57 NOK 1.00 1.05 2017 Financial assets/liabilities Derivatives used in measured at fair value Loans and Financial Total Group hedge accounting through profit or loss receivables liabilities carrying amount Fair value Financial investments (level 3) 2 2 2 Non-current receivables 1 1 1 Accounts receivable 2,721 2,721 2,721 Revenue generated but not invoiced 1,042 1,042 1,042 Derivatives (level 2) 12 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 223 223 223 Total 12 2 3,986 — 4,000 4,000 Non-current loans and credit facilities 1,559 1,559 1,571 Other non-current liabilities 15 15 15 Current loans and credit facilities 1,199 1,199 1,199 Accounts payable 716 716 716 Accrued expenses, subcontractors 165 165 165 Derivatives (level 2) 11 11 11 Contingent consideration (level 3) – Other liabilities 552 552 552 Option (level 3) – Other liabilities 2 2 2 Total 11 554 — 3,654 4,219 4,231 2016 Financial assets/liabilities Derivatives used in measured at fair value Loans and Financial Total Group hedge accounting through profit or loss receivables liabilities carrying amount Fair value Financial investments (level 3) 5 5 5 Non-current receivables 1 1 1 Accounts receivable 2,314 2,314 2,314 Revenue generated but not invoiced 944 944 944 Derivatives (level 2) 12 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 329 329 329 Total 12 5 3,588 — 3,605 3,605 Non-current loans and credit facilities 2,197 2,197 2,198 Other non-current liabilities 13 13 13 Current loans and credit facilities 267 267 267 Accounts payable 644 644 644 Accrued expenses, subcontractors 169 169 169 Derivatives (level 2) 16 16 16 Contingent consideration (level 3) – Other liabilities 337 337 337 Option (level 3) – Other liabilities 49 49 49 Total 16 385 — 3,290 3,691 3,692 2017 Financial assets/liabilities Derivatives used in measured at fair value Loans and Financial Total Parent hedge accounting through profit or loss receivables liabilities carrying amount Fair value Accounts receivable 129 129 129 Derivatives (level 2) 12 12 12 Cash and bank balances 21 21 21 Total 12 — 150 — 163 163 Non-current liabilities to credit institutions Other non-current liabilities 1,504 1,504 1,504 Current liabilities to credit institutions 1,003 1,003 1,003 Other current liabilities 126 126 126 Accounts payable 117 117 117 Derivatives (level 2) 11 11 11 Total 11 — — 2,750 2,761 2,761 74 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 13, cont. 2016 Financial assets/liabilities Derivatives used in measured at fair value Loans and Financial Total Parent hedge accounting through profit or loss receivables liabilities carrying amount Fair value Accounts receivable 107 107 107 Derivatives (level 2) 12 12 12 Cash and bank balances 62 62 62 Total 12 — 169 — 182 182 Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 700 700 700 Other non-current liabilities 1,456 1,456 1,457 Current liabilities to credit institutions 190 190 190 Other current liabilities 18 18 18 Accounts payable 105 105 105 Derivatives (level 2) 16 16 16 Total 16 — — 2,469 2,485 2,486 Measurement of fair value Due date structure, financial liabilities Fair value corresponds with carrying amount, except for the bond 2017 loan. The following provides a summary of the main methods and 1–2 3–5 assumptions used to determine the fair value of the Group’s finanGroup <1 year years years >5 years cia­l instruments. Bank loans, SEK 153 — — — Bank loans, CHF 37 7 — — Derivative instruments Bank loans, BRL — 15 — — Forward contracts and interest rate swaps are measured at market value in accordance with level 2, i.e. fair value determined using a Bank loans, DKK 9 — — — measurement method based on directly observable market inputs, Bond loan — 1,200 — — either direct (such as price) or indirect (derived from price), and Commercial paper 850 — — — which are not included in level 1 (fair value determined based on Staff convertibles 121 135 169 — quoted prices for the same instruments on active markets). Finance leasing liabilities 23 18 15 — Contingent consideration/option 77 398 106 — Non-current and current liabilities to credit institutions Since interest on these liabilities is considered to essen­tially Accounts payable 716 — — — correspond to current market rates, the carrying amount is also Accrued expenses, considered to essentially correspond to fair value. subcontractors 165 — — — Interest 23 15 6 — Commercial paper Outstanding commercial papers are classified as short-term loans 2016 with a fixed interest term of less than 12 months. 1–2 3–5 Group <1 year years years >5 years Bond loan Bank loans, SEK 190 — 700 — The bonds are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The market value is Bank loans, CHF 48 — — — based on the market price at the end of the reporting period. Bond loan — — 1,200 — Contingent consideration Staff convertibles 18 121 135 — Contingent considerations are measured at market value in acFinance leasing liabilities 11 16 14 — cordance with level 3. The calculation of contingent consideration Contingent consideration/option 67 87 253 — is dependent on para­meters in the relevant agreements. These Accounts payable 644 — — — parameters are chiefly linked to expected EBIT over the next two to Accrued expenses, three years for the acquired companies. subcontractors 169 — — — An increase in expected EBIT involves a higher liability for conInterest 27 26 25 — tingent consideration. Normally, there is a ceiling on each contingent consideration which limits how large the liability can become (see Note 3) Accounts receivable Maximum payment of contingent considerations amounted to Group Parent SEK 607 million (379) at the end of the reporting period.. Age analysis of accounts receivable which are due but not impaired 2017 2016 2017 2016 Option Options are measured at market value in accordance with level 3. <30 days 225 83 — — Calculation of fair value on put/call options is at fair value based 30–90 days 85 32 — — on the present value of expected future payments. Acquisition 91–180 days 41 58 — 0 of additional shares as found in some acquisition agreements >180 days 24 16 — 0 depends on the parameters of the respective agreement. These Total 375 189 — 0 parameters are chiefly linked to expected EBIT over the next few years for the acquired companies. An increase in expected EBIT means a higher liability is related to the option. Normally, there is a ceiling on each option which limits how large the liability can become (see Note 3). Maximum payout for the options totalled SEK 33 million (51) at the end of the reporting period. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 75 NOTES Note 13, cont. Group Parent Conditions and repayment periods Provision for doubtful receivables 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Provision at start of year 65 44 — — Nom. amount in original Carrying Year Provision for anticipated losses 31 34 — — Group currency amount due Fair value Established losses -14 -2 — — Non-current liabilities Recovered losses -26 -14 — — Bond loan, SEK 700 700 2020 707 Acquired operations -2 2 — — Bond loan, SEK 500 500 2019 505 Exchange differences -1 2 — — Switzerland, CHF, floating Provision at end of year 52 65 — — interest rate 1 7 2019 7 Brazil, BRL, floating Credit quality interest rate 6 15 2019 15 Credit risk is managed in each subsidiary in accordance with a Other 0 0 centrally drawn up credit policy. Outstanding accounts receiv1,222 1,234 able are monitored and reported regularly within each company and within the Group. Provisions have been made after individual Current liabilities assessment. The assessment of the amount which is expected to be received is based on careful analysis of the clients’ ability to Sweden, SEK, floating interest rate 150 150 2018 150 pay and the markets they operate in. ÅF’s ten largest clients, which account for a total of 26 percent of Group sales, are all large listed Sweden, SEK, floating interest rate 3 3 2018 3 companies or publicly owned institutions and companies. Switzerland, CHF, floating interest rate 4 36 2018 36 Loans and credit facilities Commercial paper 850 850 2018 850 Group 2017 2016 Other 10 10 Non-current liabilities 1,049 1,049 Bank loans 22 711 Staff convertibles 304 256 2016 Bond loan 1,200 1,200 Nom. amount Finance leasing liabilities 33 30 in original Carrying Year Group currency amount due Fair value 1,559 2,197 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Sweden, SEK, floating Bank loans 199 238 interest rate 700 700 2019 700 Staff convertibles 126 18 Bond loan, SEK 700 700 2020 698 Commercial paper 850 Bond loan, SEK 500 500 2019 503 Finance leasing liabilities 23 11 Other 11 11 1,199 267 1,911 1,912 During the second quarter of 2017, ÅF established a commercial paper programme with an overall sum of SEK 1,000 million. Current liabilities In connection with the establishment of the commercial paper Sweden, SEK, floating programme, ÅF entered into a new credit facility agreement of SEK interest rate 182 182 2017 182 1,000 million to ensure underlying available credit facilities for the Sweden, SEK, floating commercial paper programme. The facility has a term of two years interest rate 8 8 2017 8 with a possible extension. On 31 December 2017, ÅF issued comSwitzerland, CHF, floating mercial papers in the amount of SEK 850 million. interest rate 4 36 2017 36 ÅF has two revolving credit facilities of SEK 1,000 million each Other 12 12 with a remaining period of 1.5 years, along with a bank overdraft 238 238 facility of SEK 500 million. The revolving facility also has a refinancing reserve component for issued commercial papers. Contingent considerations/options (level 3) Of total credit facilities of SEK 2,500 million, SEK 1,002 million Change in contingent considerations/options 2017 2016 had been utilised at the end of the reporting period. Opening balance 385 188 The agreements governing the Group’s bank loans include certain financial obligations which must be fulfilled to retain the loan Estimated liabilities, acquisitions 293 307 and avoid increased borrowing cost. The most important obligation Initial value put/call option – 82 is net debt/operating profit (EBITDA). All financial obligations were Payments1 -74 -230 fulfilled by a good margin during the year. Changes in value recognised in other operating income – other -44 -6 Adjustment of preliminary acquisition analysis -16 — Changes in value recognised against equity – Reinertsen AS — 35 Discounting 17 3 Exchange differences -7 6 Closing balance 554 385 1) Of which SEK 10 million for 2016 is an item that does not affect cash flow 76 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 14 Intangible assets Intangible assets related Goodwill to acquired businesses Other intangible assets Total Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cost 6,190 5,584 559 526 114 113 6,862 6,224 Accumulated amortisation — — -194 -158 -92 -75 -286 -237 Accumulated impairment -33 -32 — — -1 -1 -34 -33 Carrying amount 6,157 5,553 365 368 21 35 6,542 5,955 Opening carrying amount 5,553 4,474 368 325 35 19 5,955 4,818 Purchases — — — — 9 20 9 20 Divestments and disposals — — — — -6 — -2 — Acquired operations 684 974 37 72 — 10 717 1,057 Changes in contingent consideration -16 — — — — — -16 — Amortisation for the period — — -38 -33 -16 -15 -53 -48 Impairment for the period -1 — — — — — -1 — Exchange differences -64 104 -2 3 0 0 -67 108 Closing carrying amount 6,157 5,553 365 368 21 35 6,542 5,955 Group Discount rate The Group’s intangible assets arise primarily from acquired before tax, % businesses. These acquired intangible assets consist largely of Cash-generating unit 2017 2016 goodwill, since the main value of consulting companies lies in their Industry Division 9.2 8.6 human capital, the expertise of their employees. Other intangible Infrastructure Division 9.2 8.6 assets identified in connection with the acquisitions include client International Division excl. AF Toscano AG 9.2 8.4 relationships. For information on amortisation, see the accounting policies in Note 1. AF Toscano AG 9.2 — Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units. The Technology Division 9.2 8.6 cash-­generating units comprise the Group’s segments and AF Toscano AG, which was acquired in 2016 and is not yet fully inteGoodwill grated and therefore treated as a separate cash-generating entity. Cash-generating unit 2017 2016 Impairment tests on goodwill are carried out annually, during Q4 Industry Division 2,265 2,162 or when there are indications that an impairment need has arisen, Infrastructure Division 2,210 1,807 by discounting the anticipated future cash flow by a weighted average cost of capital per cash-generating unit. The present value International Division excl. AF Toscano AG 674 895 of the cash flows, the value in use, is compared with the carrying AF Toscano AG 213 — amount including goodwill and other intangible assets. Technology Division 795 688 Forecasts used in respect of future cash flows are based on Total 6,157 5,553 the forecast approved by Group management for the next year supplemented by an individual assessment of a further four years. Intangible assets From that point on, the calculation is based on an annual growth Parent 2017 2016 rate of two percent. The forecasts are based on previous experience, internal judgeCost 67 64 ments and external sources of information. The most important Accumulated amortisation -56 -46 variable is operating margin, which is affected by hourly rate, Carrying amount 11 19 capacity utilisation, payroll expenses and number of employees. No reasonable changes in the assumptions for these variables would Opening carrying amount 19 16 lead to impairment. Purchases 4 15 The weighted average cost of capital is based on assumptions Divestments and disposals -1 — about average interest rates on 10-year government bonds, as well as company-specific risk factors and beta values. The forecast Amortisation for the period -11 -12 cash flows have been discounted to present value. Closing carrying amount 11 19 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 77 NOTES Note 15 Property, plant and equipment Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings Land and buildings Total Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cost 600 481 253 259 853 740 Accumulated depreciation -283 -205 -61 -60 -344 -265 Carrying amount 317 276 192 200 510 476 Opening carrying amount 276 226 200 159 476 385 Purchases 123 103 0 — 123 103 Divestments and disposals -10 -11 — — -10 -11 Acquired operations 15 19 8 35 24 54 Depreciation for the period -85 -63 -5 -4 -89 -67 Exchange differences -1 2 -11 10 -13 12 Closing carrying amount 317 276 192 200 510 476 Group Note 16 Finance leases Current and non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet include future payments in respect of leasing obligations Participations in associates and joint arrangements entered as liabilities. See Note 13. Group Equipment, tools, 2017 2016 fixtures and fittings Carrying amount at start of year 0 0 Parent 2017 2016 Dividend 0 0 Cost 254 223 Carrying amount at end of year 0 0 Accumulated depreciation -139 -115 Carrying amount 115 107 Country Category Project Project group Opening carrying amount 107 89 akutcenter Viborg Denmark Associate Hospital Purchases 31 37 FEM Consult I/S Denmark Joint venture Tunnel Depreciation for the period -24 -19 Ukraine District Heating Closing carrying amount 115 107 Energy Efficiency Project Switzerland Joint venture Thermal power Sweco ÅF Healthcare AB Sweden Joint venture Hospital Joint Stockholm Bypass Sweden operation Roads Joint East Link Sweden operation Railways Joint Fennovoima Finland operation Nuclear power Joint Atdorf Switzerland operation Hydropower Joint Axpo Switzerland operation Transmission Joint Berschnerbach Switzerland operation Hydropower Joint Cotlan Switzerland operation Hydropower Joint Ecosens Switzerland operation Nuclear power Joint Jerada Switzerland operation Thermal power Joint Piva Switzerland operation Hydropower Joint Renewable Vinh Switzerland operation energy Joint Verkis hf. Switzerland operation Thermal power 78 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 17 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Proposed appropriation of profits Non-restricted profits of SEK 4,441,978,368 are at the disposal of the AGM. The Board of Directors and CEO propose that these Group Parent profits be appropriated as follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rent 64 57 58 51 A dividend of SEK 5.00 per share Support and maintenance paid to the shareholders 386,612,900 agreements 30 38 24 36 To be carried forward 4,055,365,468 Insurance 2 2 1 1 Total 4,441,978,368 Other 60 49 28 26 157 146 110 112 Note 19 Note 18 Pension obligations Equity Of the Group’s total number of employees at the end of the year, around 11 percent have pensions that are recognised as defined-­ Group benefit. Other employees within ÅF have pensions that are recog­ Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends as approved nised as defined-contribution. annually by the Annual General Meeting. All shares have the same Defined-benefit plans are in place in Sweden, Switzerland and rights to the company’s residual net assets. The quota value of the Finland. The plan in Finland is not significant. share is SEK 2.50 (2.50). The defined-benefit plans in Sweden and Switzerland are gover­ The proposed dividend has not been recognised in these finanned by a broadly similar framework of rules. The plans are final cial statements. salary retirement plans which give employees benefits in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payment during their lives. The Dividends 20181 2017 2016 plans are exposed, broadly speaking, to similar risks. The Swedish plan, however, covers only pensioners and paid-up policyholders, Dividend per share, SEK 5.00 4.50 3.75 while the Swiss plan covers only active employees. The plan in Number of shares outstanding 77,322,580 77,711,003 77,588,322 Switzerlan­­d is secured by a fund. The Swedish plan is unfunded. Dividend 387 350 291 1) Proposed dividend. Alecta For white-collar staff in Sweden, the ITP 2 occupational pension Translation Hedge Total plan’s defined-benefit pension obligation for retirement and surviReserves reserve reserve reserves vor pensions is secured through insurance with Alecta. According Opening balance, 2016 66 -2 64 to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board this Translation difference for the year 108 — 108 is a defined-benefit multiemployer plan. For the financial year, the company has not had access to the information required to recog­ Cash flow hedges — 3 3 nise this plan as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP supplementary Interest rate swap — -14 -14 pension plan for salaried employees’ retirement benefits that is Tax — 2 2 secured through insurance with Alecta is, therefore, recognised as Closing balance, 2016 174 -11 164 a defined-contribution plan. Contributions during the year for retirement benefit insurance with Opening balance, 2017 174 -11 164 Alecta amounted to SEK 332 million (280). The fees for next year are expected to be in line with this year, adjusted for growth. Alecta’s Translation difference for the year -44 -44 surplus may be allocated to the insurance policy holder and/or the Cash flow hedges — 0 0 insured. At year-end Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective Interest rate swap — 5 5 funding ratio was 154 percent (149). The collective funding ratio is the Tax — -1 -1 market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obClosing balance, 2017 130 -6 124 ligations calculated in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculation assumptions, which are not in conformity with IAS 19. Capital management If funding is low, one possible action is to raise the agreed price Capital is defined as total equity, which corresponds to equity in for new entrants and for the extension of existing benefits. If fundthe consolidated balance sheet. ÅF’s objective is that, over time, ing is high, one possible action is to reduce premiums. the Group shall have a net debt. Net debt is measured in relation to EBITDA (net debt/EBITDA) Group and the financial target is 2.5. Defined-benefit plans As at 31 December 2017, net debt/EBITDA was 2.3 (2.1). 2017 2016 There are external requirements in the agreements governing the Present value of funded obligations -839 -8941 bank loans. Additional information on these is given in Note 13. Fair value of plan assets 808 7951 There were no changes in capital requirements during the year. -31 -99 Present value of unfunded obligations -65 -64 Acquisitions1 — — Liability recognised in balance sheet -96 -163 Of which Switzerland -31 -99 Of which Sweden -65 -64 1)  he present value of funded obligations and fair value of plan assets includes T obligations and assets from 2016 acquisitions. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 79 NOTES Note 19, cont. Change in the defined-benefit net debt 2017 2016 Present value Present value Present value Present value Group of plan assets of obligations Total of plan assets of obligations Total Opening balance 795 -958 -163 406 -513 -106 Current service costs — -30 -30 — -20 -20 Past service costs — 12 12 — 8 8 Change in special employers’ contribution (Sweden) — -1 -1 — -1 -1 Interest income/expense 3 -5 -2 2 -4 -2 Return on plan assets (excluding interest) 36 0 36 4 — 4 Actuarial gains/losses — 2 2 — -8 -8 Exchange difference -43 47 3 23 -26 -3 Contributions by the employer 27 — 27 15 — 15 Contributions by plan participants 26 -26 0 13 -13 Benefits paid -36 39 3 -37 40 4 Acquisitions1 15 15 368 -422 -54 Closing balance 808 -905 -96 795 -958 -163 1) Adjustment in 2016 acquisition analysis Actuarial gains and losses Sensitivity analysis of pension obligations 2017 2016 Sweden Switzerland Financial assumptions -18 -9 Changes in Increase/ Changes in Increase/ assumptions decrease assumptions decrease Demographic assumptions 21 1 Discount rate +/-0.25% +/-2 +/0.25% +34/-31 Experience adjustments -2 0 Rate of salary Total 2 -8 increases — — +/0.25% +/-4 Allocation of plan assets The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in one assumption 2017 2016 while all other assumptions remain constant. It is unlikely that this Cash and cash equivalents 22 13 will occur in practice, and changes in several of the assumptions Equity instruments 225 144 may be correlated. Payments to plans are expected to total Debt instruments 414 172 SEK 26 million (14) over the coming year. The average remaining term for the Swedish plan is 13 years (14) and for the Swiss plan, Property 133 83 15 years (16). Other 15 15 Total 808 427 Defined-contribution plans Group Parent All assets have a quoted market price. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Assumptions for defined-benefit obligations Cost of defined-contribution plans (including Alecta) 609 500 23 18 Sweden 2017 2016 Discount rate, % 2.1 2.25 Parent Inflation, % 1.8 1.5 Defined-benefit plans 2017 2016 Switzerland 2017 2016 Present value of unfunded obligations 18 19 Discount rate, % 0.4 0.4 Net amount recognised for Inflation 0.5 0.5 defined-benefit plans 18 19 Future increase in pensions, % 0.0 0.0 Of this, covered by credit insurance via FPG/PRI 18 19 Future increase in salaries, % 0.5 0.5 The discount rate is equivalent to the market interest rate on Changes in obligations during the year mortgage bonds and corporate bonds, respectively, with the dura2017 2016 tion corresponding to the average remaining term of the obligation. Net present value of pension obligations at start of year 19 21 Cost excluding interest expense charged to profit or loss — 0 Interest expense 1 1 Payment of pensions -2 -2 Net present value of pension obligations at end of year 18 19 All obligations are for pension provisions under the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. 80 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 20 Other provisions Change in non-current provisions 2017 2016 Carrying amount at start of period 57 18 Provisions during the period 8 9 Amount utilised during the period -2 -12 Releases during the period -8 -1 Transfer from non-current to current -5 — Provisions from acquired operations — 42 Adjustment regarding previously acquired operations -31 — Translation differences 0 1 Carrying amount at end of period 18 57 Change in current provisions Restructuring Other Total Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Carrying amount at start of period 17 25 21 4 39 29 Provisions during the period 82 28 63 20 145 48 Amount utilised during the period -32 -36 -54 -3 -87 -38 Releases during the period — — 2 — 2 — Transfer from non-current to current — — 5 — 5 — Translation differences 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at end of period 67 17 37 21 104 39 Parent Other provisions 2017 2016 Carrying amount at start of period 63 109 Provisions during the period 88 18 Amount utilised during the period -17 -66 Releases during the period 0 — Translation differences — 2 Carrying amount at end of period 133 63 Of the recognised provisions, SEK 132 million (61) is for contingent considerations/option. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 81 NOTES Note 21 Taxes Recognised in profit or loss Group 2017 2016 Parent 2017 2016 Current tax Current tax Tax expense for the period 210 206 Tax expense for the period 3 3 Adjustment of tax attributable to Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years 1 3 previous years 0 — Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax expense 5 3 Deferred tax expense -2 -2 Total recognised consolidated tax expense 215 212 Total recognised parent tax expense 2 1 Reconciliation of effective tax Group 2017 (%) 2017 2016 (%) 2016 Pre-tax profit 957 923 Tax per parent’s applicable tax rate 22.0 211 22.0 203 Effect of other tax rates for foreign subsidiaries -0.2 -2 0.2 2 Non-deductible costs 1.0 10 1.4 13 Non-taxable income -1.0 -10 -0.3 -2 Tax for previous non-capitalised loss carry-forwards -0.1 -1 -0.1 -1 Effects of loss carry-forward without corresponding capitalisation of deferred tax 0.3 2 0.3 2 Effect of changed tax rates 0.0 0 -0.1 -1 Tax attributable to previous years 0.1 1 -0.3 -3 Other 0.4 5 -0.1 -1 Recognised effective tax 22.5 215 23.0 212 Parent 2017 (%) 2017 2016 (%) 2016 Pre-tax profit 687 588 Tax per parent’s applicable tax rate 22.0 151 22.0 129 Non-deductible costs 0.6 4 2.5 15 Non-taxable income -22.4 -154 -24.4 -143 Tax attributable to previous years 0.0 0 0.0 0 Other 0.0 0 0.0 0 Recognised effective tax -0.2 2 0.1 1 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Net Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current assets 2 1 -113 -111 -111 -109 Current receivables and liabilities 3 3 -69 -6 -67 -3 Provisions and non-current liabilities 36 50 -7 -6 28 44 Untaxed reserves — -56 -55 -56 -55 Loss carry-forward 39 8 — 39 8 Tax assets/liabilities 79 63 -245 -178 -166 -115 Set-off -65 -39 65 39 0 — Net tax assets/liabilities 14 24 -180 -140 -166 -115 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deductible temporary differences and loss carry-forwards for tax Deferred tax assets were not recognised for these tax deficits, purposes for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised since it has not yet been deemed likely that the Group will be in profit or loss and balance sheets: able to utilise them against future taxable profits. The deficit is attri­butable to ÅF’s subsidiaries in Germany, China and Brazil. The Group 2017 2016 deficit is not due. Tax deficit 42 33 42 33 82 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 21, cont. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and loss carry-forwards ReclassiRecognised fication, Balance at in other Acquisition/ translation Balance at 1 January Recognised in comprehenRecognised in divestment differences 31 December Group 2017 profit or loss sive income equity of business etc. 2017 Non-current assets -109 8 — — -10 — -111 Current receivables and liabilities -3 -8 -1 — -39 -15 -67 Provisions and non-current liabilities 44 -8 -7 -3 0 2 28 Untaxed reserves -55 1 — — -2 — -56 Loss carry-forward 8 3 — — 26 2 39 -115 -5 -8 -3 -25 -11 -166 ReclassiRecognised fication, Balance at in other Acquisition/ translation Balance at 1 January Recognised in comprehenRecognised in divestment differences 31 December Group 2016 profit or loss sive income equity of business etc. 2016 Non-current assets 89 -7 — — -13 — -109 Current receivables and liabilities -6 1 2 — — — -3 Provisions and non-current liabilities 25 7 1 -2 13 — 44 Untaxed reserves -47 -5 — — -3 — -55 Loss carry-forward 7 1 — — — — 8 -111 -3 3 -3 -3 — -115 Note 22 Note 24 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Group Parent 2017 2016 2017 2016 Group Parent Personnel-related liabilities 868 781 35 26 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accrued expenses, Pledged assets subcontractors 165 169 1 0 In the form of pledged assets Other 107 83 32 27 for own liabilities and provisions 1,141 1,033 69 53 Property mortgages 34 36 — — Floating charges 1 1 — — Total pledged assets 35 37 0 — Note 23 Contingent liabilities Operating leases Guarantee commitments, FPG/ PRI 1 1 0 0 Guarantee commitments in Lease agreements in which the company is the lessee favour of subsidiaries — — 32 42 Operating leases cover rental agreements for properties, leases for Guarantee commitments 269 232 98 70 vehicles under which employees assume all the financial risks and Total contingent liabilities 270 233 130 112 benefits associated with the vehicles, and the lease of certain items of office equipment. The cars are leased primarily over three years. Guarantee commitments refer primarily to performance guarantees for tenders and the completion of projects. Non-terminable minimum lease payments Premises Other Contingent assets Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 The Group has determined that no contingent assets exist. During the year 307 251 87 77 Within one year 310 264 83 78 Between one and five years 963 847 215 199 Longer than five years 424 417 3 — Total 2,005 1,778 388 354 Premises Other Parent 2017 2016 2017 2016 During the year 231 197 4 6 Within one year 238 213 5 5 Between one and five years 801 748 20 19 Longer than five years 259 353 — — Total 1,530 1,511 29 29 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 83 NOTES Note 25 Related party transactions The parent has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 26). Summary of transactions with related parties This refers to the ÅForsk Foundation, which holds 37.2 percent of the votes in ÅF AB, associates and joint ventures. Transactions with these parties took place on commercial terms. Sale of services to Purchase of services Receivables from related Liabilities to related Group Year related parties from related parties parties at 31 Dec parties at 31 Dec Joint venture 2017 20 — 6 — Joint venture 2016 16 — 4 — Senior executives 2017 — — — 59 Senior executives 2016 — — — 30 The ÅForsk Foundation 2017 1 — 0 0 The ÅForsk Foundation 2016 1 — 0 — In 2017, in addition to the above, the Group received appropriations from the ÅForsk Foundation amounting to SEK 2 million (2). These grants were for projects administered by the Group. For details of other remuneration to senior executives, please see Note 6. Sale of services to Purchase of services Receivables from related Liabilities to related Parent Year related parties from related parties parties at 31 Dec parties at 31 Dec Subsidiaries 2017 766 43 5,502 365 Subsidiaries 2016 661 39 1,178 632 Senior executives 2017 — — — 33 Senior executives 2016 — — — 30 The ÅForsk Foundation 2017 0 — 0 0 The ÅForsk Foundation 2016 0 — 0 — Note Not 26 26 Group companies Comprehensive list of all Group subsidiaries 2017 Participating Carrying amount Corp. ID number Registered office interest, % 1 in parent ÅF Holding AB 556158-1249 Sweden 100 0 ÅF Digital Solutions AB 556866-4444 Sweden 100 — ÅF Digital Experience AB 556967-8971 Sweden 100 — AF Engineering & Design Inc 20061100908 USA 100 — ÅF-Infrastructure AB 556185-2103 Sweden 100 — AF-CityPlan spol. s.r.o. 473 07 218 Czech Republic 13 — KIAB Konsult och Installationstjänst AB 556670-7476 Sweden 100 — Koncept Stockholm AB 556496-2941 Sweden 100 — ÅF Sandellsandberg arkitektur AB 556464-9308 Sweden 100 — ÅF-Industry AB 556224-8012 Sweden 100 — Robot Automation AB 559113-5776 Sweden 100 — Digifex AB 556402-3173 Sweden 100 — Aktiebolaget Teknoplan 556517-8463 Sweden 100 — Alteco AB 556550-2209 Sweden 100 — Cecon AB 556741-5954 Sweden 100 — EQC Group AB 556821-1089 Sweden 100 — EQC Karlstad AB 556816-6713 Sweden 100 — EQC Management AB 556847-0988 Sweden 100 — Ingenjörsprojekt i Sverige AB 556487-7164 Sweden 100 — Ljusarkitektur Sweden AB 556568-9485 Sweden 100 — 1) Participating interest refers to both voting share and proportion of total number of shares. 84 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 26, cont. 2017 Participating Carrying amount Corp. ID number Registered office interest, % 1 in parent PRC Engineering AB 556404-3221 Sweden 100 — QE Quality Engineering Group AB 556826-9038 Sweden 100 — Sjöland & Thyselius Datakonsulter AB 556361-3370 Sweden 100 — Sjöland & Thyselius Communications AB 556593-3461 Sweden 100 — Teamab VVS Konsult AB 556302-1145 Sweden 100 — Vatten och Miljöbyrån i Sverige AB 556735-9434 Sweden 100 — ÅF Innovative Engineering AB 556918-9771 Sweden 100 — ÅF Reinertsen Sverige Deal AB 559034-2266 Sweden 100 — ÅF Infrastructure Danmark Aps 20 24 66 93 Denmark 100 153 Midtconsult P/S 34 07 48 01 Denmark 100 — Komplementaranpartsselskabet Midtconsult 33 58 46 36 Denmark 100 — LK Consultants Ltd. 0191285 Gibraltar 100 — Light Bureau Limited 5333484 UK 100 16 Light Bureau AS 914939771 Norway 100 — ÅF-Consult AB 556101-7384 Sweden 100 8 AF-Consult GmbH 218 403 818 Germany 100 0 ÅF-Funktionspartner AB 556099-8071 Sweden 100 1 ÅF-Teknik & Miljö AB 556534-7423 Sweden 100 0 Epsilon Holding AB 556421-6884 Sweden 100 3 Epsilon Design AB 556314-1380 Sweden 100 — Epsilon Polen Sp.z o.o. 9521980649 Poland 100 — LeanNova Engineering AB 556880-7233 Sweden 100 0 AF Engineering (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 310 000 400 718 401 China 100 — LeanNova Engineering UK Ltd 9039993 UK 100 0 ÅF Norge AS 911 567 989 Norway 100 668 ÅF Industry AS 997 671 651 Norway 100 — ÅF Engineering AS 915 229 719 Norway 100 — Tegn 3 AS 976 536 320 Norway 100 — ÅF Advansia AS 883 889 762 Norway 100 — Advansia AB 556742-2596 Sweden 100 — ÅF Technology AS 974 415 852 Norway 100 — ÅF Solid Engineering AS 984 615 051 Norway 88 — ÅF Solid Consult AS 986 580 719 Norway 100 — ÅF A/S 21 007 994 Denmark 100 38 ÅF Infrastructure Planning A/S 13 59 08 85 Denmark 100 46 Traffic Team A/S 36 94 60 59 Denmark 51 13 ÅF-Consult Oy 1800189-6 Finland 100 291 ÅF-Consulting AS 10 449 422 Estonia 100 — UAB AF-Consult 135 744 077 Lithuania 100 — Enprima Engineering Oy 0477940-2 Finland 100 — ÅF-Automaatika OÜ 11 297 301 Estonia 100 8 AF Consult LLC 1 037 800 096 641 Russia 100 1 AF-Engineering s.r.o. 263 66 550 Czech Republic 100 11 AF-Consult Czech Republic s.r.o. 453 06 605 Czech Republic 100 75 AF Nuclear Projects CZ s.r.o. 016 06 239 Czech Republic 100 — AF-CityPlan spol. s.r.o. 473 07 218 Czech Republic 87 19 AF Helvetia AG CHE 340.373.992 Switzerland 100 420 AF-Consult Switzerland AG CH-400.3.924.101-4 Switzerland 100 0 International Power Design Ltd. CH-400.3.025.445-4 Switzerland 100 — AF-Consult Italia S.r.l. MI-1808529 Italy 100 — AF-Consult (Thailand) Ltd 3011879733 Thailand 100 — AF-Consult India Pvt Ltd U74140DL2009FTC197507 India 100 — AF Consult do Brazil Ltda 108.307.539/0001-08 Brazil 51 — AF-Consult Ltd. 4080012527924 Macedonia 100 — AF-Consult Energy doo Beograd 20 801 298 Serbia 100 — AF-Iteco AG CH-020.3.914.049-4 Switzerland 100 — ITECO Nepal (Pvt.) Ltd 2616/043-44 Nepal 66,6 — 1) Participating interest refers to both voting share and proportion of total number of shares. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 85 NOTES Note 26, cont. 2017 Participating Carrying amount Corp. ID number Registered office interest, % 1 in parent Power Design International Ltd 224 309 Uganda 100 — AF Toscano AG CHE 105.960.103 Switzerland 100 — ET Holding AG CHE 112.276.851 Switzerland 100 — Galli Group Holding AG CHE 114.656.176 Switzerland 100 — AF Mercados Energy Markets International S.A. A-82316902 Spain 100 37 Mercados Energy Markets International Europé S.r.l. 6622220967 Italy 100 — AF-MERCADOS EMI Enerji Mühendisligi, AR-GE, Kontrol ve Test Hizmetleri Ltd.Sti. 6 160 390 509 Turkey 100 — AF-Aries Energia S.L. A-78660032 Spain 100 15 1 821 1) Participating interest refers to both voting share and proportion of total number of shares. Specification of changes in carrying amounts for the year Parent 2017 2016 Opening carrying amount 5,718 5,438 Acquisitions 168 34 Changed estimated contingent consideration — -23 Internal share transfer1 -4,010 — Impairment -61 -63 Shareholders’ contribution 6 331 Closing carrying amount 1,821 5,718 1) Sale to ÅF Holding AB Note 27 Note 28 Untaxed reserves Statement of cash flows Parent 2017 2016 Interest paid and dividends received Accumulated additional depreciation Group Parent Opening balance 1 January 42 38 2017 2016 2017 2016 Depreciation for the year, equipment 2 5 Dividends received — 699 650 Closing balance 31 December 45 42 Group contribution received — 90 70 Interest received 3 4 28 11 Transfers to tax allocation reserve Interest paid -48 -34 -42 -31 Opening balance 1 January 91 91 -45 -31 775 700 Closing balance 31 December 91 91 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Group Parent Total untaxed reserves 136 134 2017 2016 2017 2016 Depreciation/amortisation 128 102 35 31 Changed estimated contingent consideration -44 -6 — — Restructuring reserve -4 -8 — — Anticipated dividend from subsidiaries — — 25 -75 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries — — 12 63 Other 34 6 70 -5 114 95 142 14 86 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Note 28, cont. Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities Opening balance Cash flows Changes that do not affect cash flow Closing balance Cash disAcquisition of Translation Group Cash receipts bursements subsidiaries Conversion differences Other Long-term bank loans 711 15 -704 — — — — 22 Bond loan 1,200 — — — — — — 1,200 Short-term bank loans 238 3 -84 44 — -2 — 199 Commercial paper – 850 — — — — — 850 Staff convertible 274 180 — — -18 — -5 431 Lease liabilities 41 — — — — — 15 56 Other 13 — -4 7 — -1 — 15 Total liabilities arising from financing activities 2,477 1,048 -793 51 -18 -3 10 2,773 Opening balance Cash flows Changes that do not affect cash flow Closing balance Cash disAcquisition of Parent Cash receipts bursements subsidiaries Conversion Other Long-term bank loans 700 — -700 — — — — Bond loan 1,200 — — — — — 1,200 Short-term bank loans 190 — -38 — — — 153 Commercial paper — 850 — — — — 850 Staff convertible 274 180 — — -18 -5 431 Total liabilities arising from financing activities 2,364 1,030 -738 — -18 -5 2,633 Note 29 Events after end of reporting period Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S was acquired after the end of the reporting period. As of December 31, 2017 an acquisition analysis has not yet been prepared for this acquisition. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 87 NOTES Note 30 Note 31 Critical estimates and judgements Information on parent Noteworthy sources of uncertainty in estimates ÅF AB is a Swedish public limited company domiciled in The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future. Stockholm. The parent’s shares are listed on the Nasdaq OMX The resulting accounting estimates will rarely correspond to the stock exchange in Stockholm. The postal address to the company’s actual outcome. Estimates and judgements are reviewed regularly head office is ÅF AB, SE-169 99 Stockholm, Sweden. and are based on historical experience and other factors, includThe consolidated financial statements for 2017 comprise the ing the expected outcomes of future events that are considered parent and its subsidiaries, which together form the Group. The reasonable under the circumstances. Group also includes participations in associates. The main features of the estimates and assumptions which represent a significant risk of material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities during the coming financial year are presented below. Impairment test of goodwill When calculating the recoverable amount of cash-generating units, several assumptions about future circumstances and estimates of parameters have been made. Changes to these assumptions and estimates could affect the carrying amount of goodwill (see Note 14). A lower rate of growth and reduced operating margin would result in a lower recoverable amount. The reverse applies if the cal­culation of the recoverable amount is based on a higher growth rate or margin. Were future cash flows to be discounted at a higher rate of interest, the recoverable amount would be lower. Conversely, the recoverable amount would be higher with a lower discount rate. The impairment test for the period did not give rise to any impairment in respect of goodwill. Contingent considerations A contingent consideration linked to an acquisition is frequently dependent on the future economic development of the business acquired. The actual outcome may deviate from these assumptions and the effect of this will be to change the size of the pre­ viously recognised contingent consideration. Pension assumptions The Group’s net obligations under defined-benefit plans are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the future benefits earned by employees through their employment in prior periods. These benefits are discounted to present value. The calculation of the size of the Group’s total retirement benefit obligations is based on several assumptions (see Note 19). Were a lower discount rate to be used, the obligations would increase and have a negative effect on consolidated equity. The reverse applies if a higher discount rate is used. Judgement on forecast and stage of completion of contracts The Group applies the percentage of completion method, which means that income is recognised based on the stage of completion. The stage of completion is determined by comparing the accrued expenditure at the end of the reporting period with total expenditure. This means that the Group must estimate how large a percentage of the total expenditure is represented by the accrued expenditure at the end of the reporting period. The forecasts for each assignment also represent an estimate of final income and expenditure. Disputes There is a risk that disputes may arise while doing business, such as in customer assignments and in conjunction with acquisitions. At year-end, the Group recognised provisions based on a best judgement. In 2015, Danir AB called for arbitration procedures regarding its claim for additional contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Epsilon Holding AB in 2012. We believe the claim is unfounded, so it has not led to any change in the judgement of the contingent consideration’s size. 88 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 SIGNATURES Signatures The undersigned declare that the consolidated accounts and and the administration report give a fair review of the progress of annual report were prepared in accordance with IFRS, as approved the Group’s and the company’s operations, position and perforby the EU, and with generally accepted accounting practices, and mance, as well as describing the material risks and uncertainty give a fair presentation of the position and performance of the factors to which the companies that are members of the Group Group and the company, and that the Group administration report are exposed. Stockholm Sweden — 28 March 2018 Anders Narvinger Jonas Gustavsson Gunilla Berg Staffan Jufors Chairman of the Board President and CEO Director Director Björn O. Nilsson Maud Olofsson Joakim Rubin Kristina Schauman Director Director Director Director Anders Snell Gunnar Parkefelt Anders Toll Director Director, Director, employee representative employee representative Our Audit Report was presented on 28 March 2018 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Authorised Public Accountant ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 89 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of ÅF AB, Basis for Opinions corp. id 556120-6474 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards Report on the annual accounts and in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeconsolidated accounts pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise Opinions fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these reWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts quirements.This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge of ÅF AB for the year 2017. The annual accounts and consolidatand belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regued accounts of the company are included on pages 44-89 in this lation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited document. company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in companies within the EU. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffimaterial respects, the financial position of the parent company as cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Other Matter Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance The audit of the annual accounts for year 2016 was performed with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material reby another auditor who submitted an auditor´s report dated 31 spects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2017 March 2017, with unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then accounts and consolidated accounts. ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Key Audit Matters The statutory administration report is consistent with the other Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our proparts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. fessional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareannual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. holders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in parent company and the group. forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the these matters. additional report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Accounting for revenue and cost within fixed price projects See disclosure 30 and accounting principles on page 63 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit Part of the Groups revenue are derived from projects where the We have received information and assessed the Groups proGroup has an obligation to perform the projects to a fixed price. cess for project review including the routines for identifying loss Revenues and costs for fixed price contacts are recognized projects and/or projects with a higher risk as well as the prosuccessively as the project progresses in accordance with the cess for assessing revenue and costs (including assessment of stage of completion, which is calculated on the basis of accuchangeand additional orders). We have for a random sample mulated expenses in relation to estimated accumulated project of projects assessed the most significant estimates. For these expenses upon completion. Anticipated losses are immediately projects we have discussed and challenged managements recognized as a cost. The accounting for revenues and profit estimations of total forecast, assessed if risks and possibilities are based on an estimation of total costs and revenues within in the projects has been reasonably reflected in the project valeach project. Changes in estimations throughout the project uations as well as assessed loss contracts and if provisions for can have a significant effect on the Groups result and financial losses reflects the risks in the projects. We have also evaluated position. During each project the Group performs a regular reinformation from the Groups internal and external legal counsel view of the project forecasts to ensure that necessary changes regarding claims and assessed if and how these has been are made. Changeand additional orders as well as claims are reflected in the forecasts. included in the forecast when the Group consider it probable that the amount will be received from the customer and when the amount can be reliably measured. 90 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Vaulation of goodwill and parent company shares in subsidaries See disclosure 14 as well as 26 and accounting principles on pages 65–66 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit The carrying value of intangible assets in the form of goodwill We have reviewed and assessed whether the impairment tests in the consolidated accounts at December 31, 2016 amounted have been prepared in accordance with the method prescribed to SEK 6 157 million, which is approximately 55% of total assets. by IFRS. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life should annualMoreover, we have considered the reasonableness of the ly, or when there are indication of impairment, be subject to forecasted future cash flows as well as the discount rates used impairment test. Other intangible assets are tested where there through evaluation of management’s written documentation is an impairment trigger. An impairment test comprise both and forecasts. We have also met with management and evalu­ complexity and are dependent on judgments. ated the accuracy of previous years’ cash flow forecasts in The impairment test shall according to IFRS be performed in relation to actual outcome. accordance with a certain method where management needs We have involved our internal valuation specialists in the audit to make judgments of future, internal as well as external, conditeam, in order to ensure experience and competence within the tions and plans. Examples of such judgments include forecasts area, and in particular in relation to the used method and discount of future cash flows and which discount rate to be used in order rates. An important part of our work has also been to examine to reflect the time value of money as well as the specific risks the group’s own sensitivity analysis to evaluate how reasonable the operations face. changes in the assumptions may impact the valuation. The carrying value of shares in subsidiaries in the parent Furthermore, we have considered the completeness of the company at December 31, 2017 amounted to SEK 1,821 million. disclosures made relating to the impairment tests in the annual In case of an impairment trigger, if for example the value of the accounts and assessed if they are in accordance with the shares is higher than group value, an impairment test, with the assumptions used by management and that they, in all material same technique and judgments, as above is performed. aspects, are in accordance with the disclosures required by IFRS. Valuation of contingent considerations from business combinations See disclosure 3, 13, 30 and accounting principles on page 64 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit mattert Response in the audit In certain business combinations the Group can agree with the We have in our audit analyzed a sample of agreements from seller to include a contingent consideration which normally imperformed acquisitions and the terms that is the basis for the ply that parts of the purchase price is contingent on the future contingent considerations. We have also assessed managefinancial development of the acquired business. The value is ment’s estimations regarding future financial performance and, based on the terms in the agreement and include judgments through this, the size of contingent considerations. Furthermore, about the discounted value of future revenue growth and profit we have considered the completeness of the disclosures in the margin. The calculation of the value is dependent of significant annual accounts and assessed if they are in accordance with judgments. If actual outcome deviates from these assessments the assumptions used by management and that they, in all maor if the assessments about the future financial development terial aspects, are in accordance with the disclosures required for an acquired business is changed this could result in a by IFRS. change in the value of the contingent considerations which is accounted for in the income statement as they occur. Liabilities for contingent considerations are valued at fair value in the balance sheet and amounted to SEK 552 million as of December 31, 2017. Total maximal liability at the same date amounted to SEK 607 million. Other Information than the annual accounts and If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, consolidated accounts conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other inThis document also contains other information than the annual formation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–43, report in this regard. 94–103, 105–110 and 112–121. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Managing Director does not cover this other information and we do not express any The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsiform of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. ble for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and conaccounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated acidentified above and consider whether the information is materially counts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge othsuch internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the erwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that otherwise appears to be materially misstated. are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 91 AUDITOR’S REPORT In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The – Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible financial information of the entities or business activities within for the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters We are responsible for the direction, supervision and perforrelated to going concern and using the going concern basis of mance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not opinions. applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, alternative but to do so. the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things deficiencies in internal control that we identified. oversee the company’s financial reporting process. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regardAuditor’s responsibility ing independence, and to communicate with them all relationships Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable we determine those matters that were of most significance in the assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accep­ the most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and ted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggreabout the matter. gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Report on other legal and As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise pro­ regulatory requirements fessional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated – Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to of Directors and the Managing Director of ÅF AB for the year 2017 fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher statutory administration report and that the members of the Board than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the overfor the financial year. ride of internal control. – Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control Basis for Opinions relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities internal control. section. We are independent of the parent company and the group – Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordisclosures made by the Board of Directors and the Managing dance with these requirements. Director. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffi– Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. and the Managing Director’s, use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consoli­ Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the dated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit Managing Director evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appro­ exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant priations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s and we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our requirements, liquidity and position in general. opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events This includes among other things continuous assessment of the or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that continue as a going concern. the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, – Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of manage­ment of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherthe annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the wise are controlled in a reassuring manner. disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions manner that achieves fair presentation. and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. 92 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: – has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or – in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. KPMG AB, Box 382, 101 27, Stockholm, was appointed auditor of ÅF AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 25 April 2017. KPMG AB or auditors operating at KPMG AB have been the company’s auditor since 2017. Stockholm 28 March 2018 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Authorized Public Accountant ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 93 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes About the sustainability report 6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, is found on Sustainability is an integral part of ÅF’s vision, pages 6–21, 26–31, 32 (Ethical undertakings)–39, business concept and strategy. A crucial part of 48, 50 (Sustainability risks) and 94–103. Also see our sustainability efforts is to create sustainable contents on page 0. solutions in our assignments, and ÅF’s sustainOur sustainability report according to GRI G4 ability report for the 2017 calendar year is largely has for the first time been reviewed by an exteran integral part of the annual report. The following nal party. See the auditor’s Limited Assurance pages provide additional sustainability inforReport on the ÅF ABs Sustainability Report and mation, such as background information for the statement regarding the Statutory Sustainability report, in-depth information about stakeholder Report on page 104. dialogue, materiality analysis, sustainability data, and GRI index. Changes compared to the previous year ÅF publishes a sustainability report annually, The number of employees increased from 9,133 the latest being published in June 2017. As with in 2016 to 9,865 in 2017. The three material asprevious years, ÅF’s 2017 sustainability report was pects that were not prioritised in the sustainability prepared in accordance with Global Reporting report of 2016 are presented in this year’s report. Initiative (GRI) G4, Core Level. The sustainability Otherwise, no major changes have been made to report covers the companies in the ÅF Group, in the report’s frameworks or conversions. accordance with same principles applied to financial reporting. The reporting principles in GRI G4 Name of contact were used to define the contents of the report. The Inquiries about the sustainability report should sustainability report, which also covers ÅF’s statbe directed to: Nyamko Sabuni, EVP and Head of utory sustainability report as required by Chapter Sustainability, tel: +46 10 505 00 00. Responsibility and governance Global Compact is the foundation Within ÅF there is a clearly stated responsibility for ÅF’s sustainability approach is based on the 10 princisustainability issues and the governance is rooted at ples of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human the highest level. This gives us excellent opportunities rights, working conditions, the environment and anti-­ to vigorously disseminate the new strategy’s basic corruption initiatives, which we follow and report on component – sustainability – in the organisation. annually to the UN regarding our efforts and progress. ÅF has also integrated the UN’s 17 Sustainable DevelIntegrated sustainability efforts opment Goals into its operations with the company’s As CEO, Jonas Gustavsson has ultimate responsibilbusiness and offering as the starting point. In particuity for ÅF’s sustainability efforts. Strategic responlar, we have focused on the following three objectives: sibility rests with Nyamko Sabuni, EVP and Head of Affordable and clean energy (SDG 7), Sustainable Sustainability, who is on the Group’s management industry, innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9) and team. This ensures a firm foundation for the compaSustainable cities and communities (SDG 11). ny’s proactive and integrated sustainability initiaBesides these frameworks, ÅF has its own code tives. It makes it possible for sustainability issues of conduct that guides our actions in practice and is to be prioritised early in the business process. The the basis of our operations. The code defines how we sustainability director is supported by a team, which handle business relationships with clients, business was strengthened by one further person from January partners, employees and other stakeholders. It covers 2018. ÅF’s Board of Directors includes sustainability all employees in all countries as well as the Group’s aspects in its overall decision-making process. Board of Directors. Sustainability initiatives are integrated into existing staff functions, ensuring their execution. The EVP Management system and Head of divisions are responsible for pushing the Sustainability activities are controlled and monitored sustainability perspective in all their assignments – through the management system and its processand each division has a sustainability co-ordinator, es that cover all of our operations. ÅF has for many who develops and carries out the company’s sustainyears had a management system for our business ability initiatives within the division in discussions with the Head of Sustainability. The sustainability operations that covers quality and environmental co-ordinators met on six occasions during the year. management in line with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. In 2016 this system was complemented to include health and safety to comply with the requirements of 94 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 OHSAS 18001. The system is certified and at the end Sustainability issues are often part of the discussion, of the year, the certificates covered 83 percent of all not least in connection to assignments. In addition to employees. the ongoing dialogues, ÅF conducted a general stakeDuring the year 101 internal audits of the system holder dialogue in 2017, which will provide a basis for the were conducted to monitor the implementation of development of ÅF’s sustainability work. the management system. This year’s external audits identified five minor deviations. An action plan to Stakeholder dialogue sets the frameworks correct the deviation was develope­­d and submitted In 2017, surveys and interviews were conducted to get to Intertek. a picture of ÅF’s current sustainability work and the priorities that should be made going forward. The surStrengthened training vey was answered by 5,819 people, of whom 4,899 were Our sustainability efforts require all employees to employees. In addition to ÅF’s own employees, the surknow about the sustainability issues, as well as their vey was also answered by clients, suppliers, students, risks and opportunities in our operations. Therefore, shareholders, analysts and associations. In connection ÅF has produced a range of training courses, including with the survey, supplementary interviews were also web-based sustainability training for all employees conducted with members of the Board of Directors as in which anti-corruption is an essential part. Sustainwell as a workshop with Group management. ability issues are also included in induction training as well as in management training. Specific areas such as  he sustainability aspects raised as the most T human rights, gender equality and diversity are also important in the 2017 stakeholder dialogue were: included in the talent programme EVEN ODDS. All new – Good business ethics employees are required to take the web-based sus– Retaining talent tainability training within three months of employment, – Equality, inclusion and diversity which is ensured by our onboarding app. At year-end, – Sustainable solutions half of all new employees had completed the induction – Choice of clients and projects training Welcome to ÅF and 65 percent of all managers – Partner responsibility had completed the Leadership in Our Time manage– Positive working environment ment programme. By the end of the year, 38 percent of employees had taken the web-based sustainability The result of the stakeholder dialogue largely reflects training. In future, training specifically for senior execthe outcome of the previous stakeholder dialogue utives and salespeople will be crucial to having a real from 2015. These areas are therefore still prioritised impact on ÅF’s new business strategy. and will be the basis for our development efforts in 2018. Our clients, and the rest of the world, are Dialogues with stakeholders making greater demands on us to act ethically and An important point of departure in ÅF’s sustaina­bility responsibly. This is also evidenced by things such as work is a close dialogue with our stakeholders. The diathe increased demands that clients place on us when logue is ongoing in all projects, meetings and other conprocuring services. At the same time, ÅF can go far tacts we have with our most important stakeholders. beyond the pure responsibility issues by creating, Stakeholders How we engage in dialogue Important issues Clients Client meetings, project meetings, follow-up interviews Satisfaction, perceived quality, prices, contracts, after the end of the project, website, participation in procurement, deliveries, sustainability where environclient event mental impact is of major importance Employees Development talks, intranets, workplace meetings, Well-being, salary, work environment and skills conferences, internal training, leadership programmes, development, type of assignment newsletters Partner Planning meetings, project meetings, website Prices, contracts, ethical issues Owner Investment events, such as in connection with quarGrowth, profitability, business ethics terly reports, capital market days, annual general meeting, interviews, website, newsletters Suppliers Supplier meetings, follow-up meetings, requests for Contract negotiations and compliance with quotes and procurement, interviews and surveys our code of conduct Media, students, authorities and Website, mail, attendance at conferences, counselling Questions about how sustainability is developing organisations, universities and on specific issues colleges ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 95 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES developing and implementing solutions that build a 3. Attractive employer more sustainable society. ÅF’s most significant success factor is human capThe table on the previous page lists ÅF’s most importital. ÅF attracts outstanding, motivated employees. ant stakeholders, how we conduct an ongoing dialogue Teamwork is important to enabling development of and what issues the various stakeholders regard as most innovative, multi-sectoral solutions. Prioritised susimportant. These stakeholders are important for ÅF betainability aspects: cause they have a major impact on the company or are – Psychosocial working environment affected by the company’s operations. In this integrated – Physical work environment annual and sustainability report, we describe how we – Gender equality meet the demands and expectations of our stakeholders. – Skills development Focus on the essential ÅF follows up on how well we perform within our focus Implemented stakeholder dialogue and weighting in areas through the Sustainable Business Performance the management team form the basis for the sustainIndicators (SBPI), a tool developed by ÅF’s specialability aspects that ÅF defined as essential for the ists in collaboration with RISE Research Institutes of coming years. Sweden. All identified aspects are relevant to all ÅF internal operations. The following aspects are also essential Sustainable solutions outside the organisation: ÅF’s assignments establish values ​​such as efficient – Gender equality. By working on gender issues, for and renewable energy, resource efficiency, safe workexample through campaigns like Ladies’ Month, more places, increased accessibility, and improved air and women are attracted to seeking employment at ÅF. water quality. Our analysis shows that we contribute It also inspires other companies to raise the issue. to all of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. – Anti-corruption. The anti-corruption work controls Based on our business and our offer, we have the ÅF’s choice of assignments, clients, partners and greatest potential to contribute to SDGs 7, 9 and 11. suppliers. This can have an impact on corporate Read more about our work on sustainable solutions cultures in countries where corruption is widespread. on pages 26-29. – Future skills supply. Through various targeted projects and initiatives meant to increase the status of the engineering profession, primary and secondary school students in general and girls in particular are induced to train as engineers. – Development of ÅF’s offering with respect to 2017, 55 sustaina­bility. By developing and offering more 2016, 48 sustainable services, both ÅF’s clients and society at large are progressing towards more sustainable development. ÅF works systematically with its prioritised sustainability aspects. This sustainability report reflects the The sustainability performance for focus area Susaspects that our stakeholders considered most imtainable solutions is measured in SBPI by weighing portant in the 2015 stakeholder dialogue, as indicated the results from the extent to which we contributed to in the GRI Index on pages 102-103. The aspects are the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals through divided into three focus areas: our assignments, in combination with measurement areas that affect things such as collaboration, spon1. Sustainable solutions sorship and CSR. The result for 2017 was 55 (48). ÅF contributes towards sustainable development by offering the most sustainable solutions. Every project Responsible business creates value for ÅF, the client and society. Prioritised The sustainability performance for focus area Resustainability aspects: sponsible business is measured with SBPI by weigh– Develop ÅF’s service offering in terms of sustainability ing the results for financial stability, good business – Impact on local communities ethics, quality in our deliveries, responsiveness and close client dialogue, sustainable purchasing, and 2. Responsible business sustain­able resource utilisation. The result for 2017 All projects and assignments fulfil the principles statwas 68 (67). ed in ÅF’s Code of Conduct, which includes the Global Compact’s ten principles. ÅF ensures that operations Sustainable purchasing are conducted responsibly through its risk assessIn procurements and purchasing, suppliers must comment process (SRA). Prioritised sustainability aspects: ply with ÅF’s criteria for business partners based on – Anti-corruption the UN Global Compact. Evaluation and selection of – Human rights suppliers is based on a balanced assessment of the – CO2 emissions environment and climate impact as well as quality and – Long-term profitability costs. As a service provider of engineering and design 96 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 cant sources of emissions: business travel and energy use. In 2017, ÅF’s total emissions amounted to 11,878 tonnes of CO2e. Of these, 5,407 tonnes of CO2e were direct emissions from business travel by car, while 2017, 68 2,151 tonnes of CO2e were indirect emissions from 2016, 67 energy consumption and 4,320 tonnes of CO2e from business travel by air and train. Recalculated per employee, emissions amounted to 1,284 kg CO2e, which is 4.7 percent lower than last year. The goal is to halve ÅF’s carbon dioxide emissions per employee by 2030 compared to the base year 2009. PROFITABILITY 2017 Emission of carbon dioxide from business travel Direct economic value generated, Carbon dioxide emissions from business travel are (in millions of SEK) 2017 2016 2015 an important environmental issue, as ÅF is a large Net sales 12,658 11,070 9,851 organisation with around 10,000 employees with Operating costs, incl. assignments all over the world. To reduce the emisdepreciation/amortisation -4,432 -4,008 -3,584 sions from business travel there is also a travel policy Employees’ wages and benefits -5,992 -4,995 -4,456 and a vehicle policy. Carbon dioxide emissions from Income tax and employer’s business travel are measured and reported annually contributions -1,491 -1,356 -1,201 in the ÅF Climate Report. CERO, a system developed Economic value retained 742 711 609 by researchers at KTH, is used as a planning tool for the projects. CERO charts travel patterns, calculates solutions, most of our purchases are office equipment, emissions, plans activities and suggests behavioural IT equipment, licences and travel. We receive delivchanges. One challenge is that the more ÅF expands eries from about 30 prioritised framework agreement operations, the more travel increases. We are theresuppliers of such things as energy, travel, hotel rooms, fore planning to expand the use of technical comoccupational healthcare, work clothes and more. In munication solutions instead of physically traveling 2017, these purchases totalled SEK 1,200 million. ÅF’s to meetings wherever possible. ÅF is also part of the largest suppliers are in Sweden and include Microsoft, Nollzon initiative, which means that electric cars take Tieto, Telia and Dell. Together they account for nearly priority when traveling by taxi. 80 percent of our global annual IT expenditures. In 2017, emissions from business travel per employee decreased by 1.8 percent for the Swedish part of Climate and environment the business. For the international part of the busiÅF has a certified environmental management sysness, emissions from business travel per employee tem certified to ISO 14001 that ensures systematic decreased by 1.7 percent. The reduction per employee environmental efforts. Management of environmencan be explained by lower emission limits on company tal work is covered by our sustainability policy. Our and personnel cars, more journeys by train and techclimate impact is mainly due to business travel and nical communication solutions. For the whole group, energy use in office premises. There is also some emissions per employee rose by 0.6 percent, which is impact from consumables used, but because they explained by the fact that a larger proportion of the account for a marginal part of our overall impact and employees are based internationally in comparison to data collection requires considerable resources, the previous year. decision was made to prioritise the two most signifiEnergy use in offices The second major environmental issue is energy use EMISSIONS PER PERSON, KG/PERSON in ÅF’s offices in over 30 countries. In cases where ÅF controls the choice of electricity supplier, a centrally Energy use, Business Business Total office travel, car travel, other negotiated energy contract with entirely renewable Sweden 1,002 123 613 266 energy sources has been in use for the last three International* 2,144 566 498 1,081 years, as defined in EU Directive 2009/28/EC. The Total* 1,284 233 585 467 energy contract now cover 48 percent of ÅF’s office *) These numbers should be read with caution due to uncertain data quality. space in Sweden. We monitor and measure energy use in six other countries, that is, the data covers the seven countries where the majority of ÅF’s employTOTAL CLIMATE EMISSIONS, ees work. Actual energy use for office space in other TOAL TONNES CO2 equiv. – 2017 countries is not measured at this time. These are assumed to account for a marginal part of ÅF’s total Energy use, Business Business Total office travel, car travel, other energy use in office space, as approximately three Sweden 6,980 858 4,270 1,852 percent of ÅF’s employees are located outside the International* 4,898 1,293 1,137 2,468 seven largest countries. Energy use for that part of Total* 11,878 2,151 5,407 4,320 the business is accounted for as a standard amount *) These numbers should be read with caution due to uncertain data quality. based on data for other countries outside Sweden. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 97 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES For the Swedish part of the business, energy emisand data collection requires considerable resources, sions per employee decreased by 41 percent and in we prioritise the most significant source of Scope the international part of the business, energy emis3 emissions: business travel by air. Emissions data sions per employee decreased by 12 percent. For the relating to air transport are obtained from the travel entire Group, energy emissions per employee deagency, supplemented with data from ÅF’s accountcreased by 23 percent. ing system for airline ticket outlays. For foreign offices, emissions for air travel are calculated based on Calculation methods kilometres travelled where data for this exists, otherÅF’s estimates of climate emissions are calculatwise the same emission per SEK spent is assumed as ed according to the GHG protocol guidelines. The the average for travel booked through travel agencies. emissions under Scope 1 refer to direct emissions Energy data is collected from the seven largest counof greenhouse gases generated from our business tries, based on the number of employees. The aggretravel with cars operated by employees, namely prigated data is used as a basis for estimating ÅF’s total vately-owned cars, personnel cars, on-demand cars, emissions, including those offices and countries from service vehicles, rental cars and pool cars. For travel which data have not been collected. emissions from the company’s personnel, on-demand Existing systems make the quality of information and service vehicles, the calculations were based on from international operations unreliable. The results detailed emission data per vehicle from ÅF’s supplier are therefore divided into the Swedish and the interof vehicle administrative services. For rental and pool national parts of the business. cars, emissions data is supplied from travel providers supplemented with data from ÅF’s accounting system Anti-corruption for rental and pool car outlays. For privately-owned ÅF operates in more than 30 countries and particcars, we use emission factors from the Swedish Enipates in projects in more than 100 countries. To vironmental Protection Agency (gCO2/km). Data is handle the issue of corruption, we follow Transparency collected from the seven countries with the most emInternational’s Corruption Index. At ÅF there is zero ployees: Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Czech Repubtolerance for corruption and other forms of anti-comlic, Denmark, Finland and Brazil. Data from the foreign petitive activities. Prior to the tender process, a susoffices are obtained as driven kilometers through tainability risk assessment checklist is used. If there questionnaires from each country. For the foreign is thought to be a risk of corruption, all consultants offices, Swedish standard values are used to calcuwho are expected to participate in the project are late greenhouse gas emissions. The aggregated data trained in current legislation and ÅF’s anti-corruption is used as a basis for estimating ÅF’s total emissions, framework. In 2017, no further project groups were including those offices and countries from which data identified as relevant for the enhanced anti-corruphave not been collected. tion training. All new employees must find out what ÅF’s emissions under Scope 2 refer to indirect applies in this area through our onboarding app. Inforemissions of greenhouse gases generated from mation on sustainability and whistleblowing policies energy consumption, including electricity purchased is available at www.afconsult.com. for our businesses and properties as well as heating ÅF has a whistleblower function that reports to and cooling. Energy data is collected from the seven the Audit Committee. No cases related to corruption largest countries, based on the number of employees. that were reported through this channel have shown The aggregated data is used as a basis for estimatany wrongdoing. During the year, one case of incoring ÅF’s total emissions, including those offices and rect information about an employee’s education was countries from which data have not been collected. noted by a third party in a tender process. The case For energy-related emissions in Sweden, the estiwas followed up and one employee was fired and two mates consider whether the purchased electricity were warned. was origin-labelled. For electricity use in Sweden, the emission factor for origin guarantees is used where Human rights such is purchased (0 g CO2/kWh), otherwise residual ÅF will act in accordance with the human rights govmix is used (351 g CO2/kWh). For other Nordic counerned by our sustainability policy. We estimate that tries, Nordic electricity mix is used (125 g CO2/kWh). the risk of human rights violations in the context of For countries outside the Nordic region, European our activities is relatively small. The issue is more relelectricity mix is assumed (432 g CO2/kWh). In cases evant for certain types of projects. There is a primary where district heating is used in Sweden, emissions risk of violations of human rights in hydropower projare calculated from the local production mix. Officects, which often cause the displacement of people. es outside Sweden are assumed to be heated with For ÅF it is important that international guidelines electricity. For offices in Norway and Denmark using for displacement are followed. To the extent that we district heating, the same emission is assumed as can influence, we propose the Equator Principles and from average Swedish district heating production. the IFC Performance Standards. In 2017 there were ÅF’s emissions according to Scope 3 relate to other no displacements within the framework of projects in indirect greenhouse gas emissions. These are mainly which ÅF participates. generated from business travel by air and train. There Human rights training is ongoing. It takes place is also some impact from consumables, but because within the framework of training new employees and they account for a marginal part of our overall impact new managers and through a web-based course as 98 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 part of the onboarding process. ÅF has zero tolerance development, skills development and management for discrimination and other human rights violations. training. ÅF’s systematic occupational health and The issue is followed up through ÅF’s employee sursafety efforts are conducted according to OHSAS vey and measures are taken where necessary. In 2017, 18001 to provide a safe and healthy working environ195 employees reported that they felt discriminated ment for all employees, partners and others. Adheragainst, which constitutes 2.78 percent of responing to the working environment rules is important dents (7,023). This is in line with the results of the 2015 for management, employees and clients, who often employee survey (2.67 percent of 5,656 respondents). require ÅF to demonstrate how they are followed. This will be followed up annually going forward. No Every year, an employee survey is conducted to get reports of discrimination or violations of human rights an idea of ​​how employees experience their physical were made to HR or through the whistleblower chanand psychosocial work environment. The response nel. rate was high in 2017 at 82 percent. The results show At ÅF, diversity and inclusion are the basis of our a high level of motivation among employees, pride in personnel policy. An increasingly international ÅF the company and a great willingness to recommend increases the risk of, for example, violating the rights ÅF as an employer. Key issues related to ÅF’s efforts of women and HBTQ persons. It is therefore extra imto be an attractive employer are leadership, clarity in portant that ÅF’s managers are clear about the equal goal breakdown and career and skills development. value of all people. A risk assessment survey is completed at the Working environment and health tender stage. According to the 2017 internal audits, The ÅF Group strives for a good, healthy, safe working risk assessments linked to the Global Compact’s ten environment for all employees. The ÅF Group is certiprinciples were conducted in half the tenders. During fied to OHSAS 18001:2007 – a management system the year, we further developed the process to make it for the working environment. Annual audits are carried more user-friendly for better compliance. out according to the Group’s procedures and proAttractive employer Being an attractive employer is a priority area of ​​ COUNTRIES WITH ÅF-OFFICES IN 2017 ÅF’s strategy and a focus area for its sustainabili1 Albania 18 Lithuania ty efforts. Sustainability performance in this area is 2 Bosnia Herzegovina 19 Macedonia measured through SBPI, where the results consist of 3 Brazil 20 Nepal indicators in good working environment, skills development, teamwork and support among colleagues, 4 China 21 Nigeria diversity, gender equality and leadership. The result 5 Croatia 22 Norway for 2017 was 65 (64). 6 Czech Republic 23 Philippines As competition for qualified employees increases, 7 Denmark 24 Saudi Arabia 8 Estonia 25 Serbia 9 Finland 26 Sweden 10 Germany 27 Switzerland 11 India 28 Tanzania 2017, 65 12 Indonesia 29 Thailand 2016, 64 13 Iran 30 Turkey 14 Italy 31 Uganda 15 Kenya 32 UK 16 Kosovo 33 Vietnam so too does the pressure on ÅF to present itself as an 17 Latvia attractive employer. For an engineering and consulting company to achieve its objectives, it is essential that employees are motivated and have appropriate 43 skills and knowledge. There is always a risk that highly competent employees may leave ÅF to join competitors or clients, or set up their own businesses. To retain and stimulate co-workers of the right calibre, ÅF invests (for exLanguages spoken​​ at ÅF ample via the ÅF Academy) in continual professional (fluent or as a native language) ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 99 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER TYPE OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT RATE EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER AND GENDER3 Women Men Women Men Probationary employees 116 231 Full-time employees 1,541 5,081 Permanent employees 2,209 6,693 Part-time employees 191 155 Other fixed-term forms of employment 133 483 Total 1,732 5,236 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY1 TOTAL NUMBER OF WHITE-COLLAR EMPLOYEES PER GENDER 2 Distribution 2017 in % Women Men Age<30 30-50 >50 Board of Directors 25.0 75.0 0.0 16.7 83.3 Women Men Group management 20.0 80.0 0.0 56.0 44.0 White-collar employees 2,458 7,407 Managers 18.6 81.4 19.7 47.2 33.2 Consultants 23.4 76.3 21.6 53.9 24.6 Admin 76.7 23.3 1.2 66.4 32.4 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER GENDER IN OUR Total* 25.1 74.9 19.2 55.0 25.8 LARGEST MARKETS2 * The goal is to have 30 percent women at all levels by 2020. Women Men Sweden 1,831 5,625 PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN PER DIVISION 2 Norway 234 542 Switzerland 114 384 2017 2016 Denmark 103 331 Distribution in % Consultants Managers Consultants Managers ÅF Group 23.4 18.2 23.2 16.3 Industry 20.0 14.9 20.4 14.4 Infrastructure 29.1 19.7 28.1 16.9 cesses in the area of occupational health and safety International 19.6 11.1 19.9 9.3 to ensure that we avoid working environment risks in Technology 16.7 23.1 17.4 23.1 the best possible manner. ÅF AB 46.0 47.5 33.3 50.0 Total sick leave fell slightly in 2017 to 2.60 percent compared with 2.70 percent in 2016. Statistics on sickness absence are analysed monthly at manageSICKNESS ABSENCE 2 ment level, and if necessary, action plans are develSickness absence in % 2017 2016 oped that are carefully followed up. There are employees who work in risky workplaces Sickness absence, Sweden 2.64 2.82 within the framework of client assignments. Everyone Sickness absence, total 2.60 2.70 is trained in safety and occupational health requirements based on the requirements of the various workplaces where a given ÅF consultant works. In SKILLS DEVELOPMENT4 2017, 56 accidents and incidents were reported from Number of hours of training operations in Sweden, of which 14 were women. In per average FTE, total 2017 2016 2015 2018, we will work to improve the reporting procedures Hours of training 291,638 253,744 212,754 for incidents throughout the Group. Average number of FTEs 9,292 8,115 7,453 Hours of training/employee 31.3 31.3 28.5 Psychosocial working environment No forms of harassment are accepted at ÅF. During the year, procedures and guidelines were introduced for dealing with harassment. The guidelines were AGE DISTRIBUTION2 distributed through internal news articles and other 2017 2017 2016 2016 sources. The ambition is that all employees should Age distribution in % men women men women know that no forms of harassment are acceptable. -29 12.2 5.6 13.0 5.9 Those affected should know where to turn for inves30–39 23.7 9.2 22.4 8.8 tigation and help. Late autumn’s Metoo debate led us 40–49 18.6 6.1 18.3 5.8 to intensify our efforts to develop ÅF’s code of con50–59 14.7 3.3 13.6 3.2 duct. In 2017, two incidents of inappropriate behaviour 60– 5.5 0.9 8.0 0.9 were handled by HR. In the context of the employee Total 74.9 25.1 75.3 24.7 survey, 267 employees stated that they had been subjected to bullying, discrimination or sexual harassment within the last 12 months. 1) Probationary and permanent employees 2) All forms of employment 3) Permanent employees in Sweden 4) Probationary and permanent employees excluding acquisitions 100 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 ÅF’S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND HOW THEY MAP AGAINST THE THREE SUSTAINABILITY PERSPECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY PERSPECTIVES Social Ecological Economical Sustainable solutions Engineering and design solutions that help achieve the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals    Responsible business Long-term profitability  Increased client satisfaction  Halve carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 using 2016 as base year  ÅF’s risk assessment checklist must always be filled in for new clients, deals and markets before a tender is issued    Attractive employer Increased employee satisfaction   Leadership must feature a high degree of confidence in line managers   Increased proportion of women in the workforce: 30 percent at all levels by 2020   Zero tolerance of discrimination   Diversity – Four Olympic Committees. ÅF sponsors Olympic At ÅF there is an equal treatment policy that is incommittees in Sweden, Norway, Finland and tended to increase diversity and create even gender Switzer­land. Sponsorship means that ÅF acts as distribution to get the best talent. A target was set of Green Advisor to the committees, sponsors deat least 30 percent women in all positions by 2030. At velopment of new athletes and educates athletes the end of the year the figure for ÅF as a whole was in sustainability to turn them into sustainability 25.1 percent. Read more about what is being done to ambassadors. increase diversity in the “Attractive Employer” section – Göteborgsvarvet. Traditional sponsor of the half on page 34. marathon race. An important part is to encourage exercise among our own employees. About 50,000 Working conditions attended, of which 430 were ÅF employees. The Equal Treatment Policy states that ÅF will pro– Childhood Cancer Fund. Traditional sponsor mote equal treatment at work by applying the terms combined with sustainability activities such as of employment equally to all employees. ÅF strives cycling for health. to be perceived as a good employer with attractive – The ÅForsk Foundation. Collaboration on employment conditions, to attract the best talent and the Green Advisor Report. retain committed employees. In the Swedish part of – Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences­­ the business all employees are covered by collective (IVA). Collaboration on future energy solutions, agreements. These agreements cover 76 percent of all Tekniksprånget, which involves preparing internemployees. The entire business has employment conships for young secondary school students, and ditions that are competitive in the local market and Jobb­språnget, which involves mediating internships comply with local regulations. Performance reviews for newcomers to Sweden who have an engineering with individual development plans were held with 79 degree. percent of employees according to the employee – Vinnova. Collaboration to develop key ratios with survey. the aim of increasing efficiency, measurability and management of production, and using the correct Strategic partnerships key ratios to properly integrate sustainability work ÅF is active and is a member of several initiatives at the ground level. and strategic partnerships to empower, influence and – NIR, International Business Council. Works to drive sustainable development. These choices will be strengthen Swedish companies’ long-term interests reviewed in 2018 to fit the new strategy and optimise in complex environments. the impact of our commitment. ÅF’s most important – Green Cities. Operates in three areas: interest and commitments in 2017 were as follows: impact, meeting place for new opportunities as well as advice and support. – Nollzon. By joining nollzon, we help increase demand for electric taxis. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 101 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI Index GENERAL DISCLOSURES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE REFERENCE COMMENTS STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4–1 Comments from the CEO p. 4-5 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation p. 44 G4-4 Important brands, products and services p. 25 G4-5 Location of headquarters Solna, Frösundaleden 2 G4-6 Countries where the organisation is active p. 99 G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form p. 43 and 107 G4-8 Markets where the organisation is active p. 25, 32 G4-9 Size of the company p. 3 G4-10 Workforce p. 99-101 G4-11 Number of employees covered by p. 45, 101 collective agreement G4-12 Supply chain p. 32 and 96-97 G4-13 Significant changes in the organisation during the accounting period p. 2 G4-14 The precautionary principle p. 48 G4-15 Statutes, principles and initiatives p. 37, 94 and 96 that the organisation follows G4-16 Membership in organisations p. 26 and 96 IDENTIFIED SIGNIFICANT ASPECTS AND DELIMITATIONS G4-1 7 Entities covered by the report p. 84-86 and 94 G4-18 Process to identify content and p. 94-96 delimitations for the report G4-19 List of identified essential aspects p. 95-96 G4-20 Delimitations within the organisation p. 96 for each aspect G4-21 Delimitations outside the organisation p. 96 for each aspect G4-22 Explanation of corrections from previous p. 94 reports G4-23 Significant changes in scope, delimitations or p. 94 measurement methods compared to previous years’ reports STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE G4-24 Stakeholders p. 95 G4-25 Identification and selection p. 95 of stakeholders G4-26 Stakeholder dialogue p. 95 G4-27 Important issues for stakeholders p. 95 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period p. 94 G4-29 Most recent report p. 94 G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 94 G4-31 Contact person for the report p. 94 G4-32 GRI Index p. 94 and 102–103 G4-33 External certification p. 104 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure p. 94 and 107 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organisation’s values, principles, standards p. 97-101 G4-56 and code of conduct 102 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 SPECIFIC STANDARD INFORMATION COMMENTS/ ESSENTIAL ASPECTS INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION PAGE REFERENCE OMISSIONS Long-term profitability G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 8-9 and 20-21 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated p. 97 and distributed Future skills supply G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 34-39 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impact p. 49 Physical working environment G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 99-101 p. 99-100 Reported figures only for the Swedish part of the G4-LA6 Work injuries, absence and accidents operations Skills development p. 34-38 and 99-101 G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 100 Distribution by gender and G4-LA9 Average number of training hours personnel category not per year and employee reported G4-LA11 Percentage of employees who p. 101 receive regular evaluation and follow-up of their performance and career development Gender equality G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 38 and 99-101 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies p. 99-100 and breakdown of employees per personnel category by gender, age group, minority group and other indicators of diversity Anti-corruption G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 32, 48 and 96-99 G4-SO3 Percentage of operations p. 99 reviewed regarding corruption risks G4-SO4 Communication and training on p. 94-95 and 98 anti-corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed cases of corruption and p. 98 measures taken Human rights G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 32, 48, 98-99 G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of p. 99 operations that have been subject to review or impact of human rights CO2 emissions G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 21, 29 and 97-98 G4-EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse p. 97 gases from business travel by car (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy related to indirect emissions p. 97 of greenhouse gases from energy use in offices (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect emissions of greenp. 97 house gases from other business travel (Scope 3) G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas p. 97 emissions Impact on local communities G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 96 and 98 p. 99 Local engagement and local development proG4-SO1 Percentage of activities with grammes not reported consequence analyses performed since not applicable to ÅF’s business Psychosocial working environment G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 38 and 99-101 G4-HR3 Number of cases of discrimination p. 98 Develop ÅF’s service offering in terms of G4-DMA Control of essential aspects p. 16 and 20-21 sustainability Company-specific indicator – ÅF’s p. 16 contribution to the SDGs trough our assignments ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 103 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on ÅF cedures. Our examination regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report has been conducted in accorABs Sustainability Report and statement dance with FAR:s accounting standard RevR12 The regarding the Statutory Sustainability auditor’s opinion regarding the Statutory SustainReport ability Report. A limited assurance engagement and an examination according to RevR 12 is different and To ÅF AB, Corp. Id. 556120-6474 substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Introduction and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard the Managing Director of ÅF AB to undertake a limiton Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a ed assurance engagement of ÅF ABs Sustainability compre­hensive system of quality control including Report for the year 2017. ÅF AB has defined the scope documented policies and procedures regarding comof the Sustainability Report that also is the Statutory pliance with ethical requirements, professional stanSustainability Report on page 94. dards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent of ÅF AB in accordance Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden Managing Director and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibiliThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are ties in accordance with these requirements. responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability The limited assurance procedures performed and Report including the Statutory Sustainability Report the examination according to RevR 12 do not enable in accordance with applicable criteria and the Annual us to obtain assurance that we would become aware Accounts Act respectively. The criteria are defined of all significant matters that might be identified in on page 94 in the Sustainability Report, and are part an audit. The conclusion based on a limited assurance of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published engagement and an examination according to RevR by GRI (The Global Reporting Initiative), that are 12 does not provide the same level of assurance as a applic­able to the Sustainability Report, as well as the conclusion based on an audit. accounting and calculation principles that the ComOur procedures are based on the criteria defined pany has developed. This responsibility also includes by the Board of Directors and Managing Director as the internal control relevant to the preparation of a described above. We consider these criteria suitable Sustaina­bility Report that is free from material misfor the preparation of the Sustainability Report. statements, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions Auditor’s responsibility below. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance Conclusions procedures we have performed and to express an Based on the limited assurance procedures peropinion regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report. formed, nothing has come to our attention that We conducted our limited assurance engagement causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagenot prepared, in all material respects, in accordance ments other than audits or reviews of financial inforwith the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and mation. A limited assurance engagement consists Executive Management. of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. applying analytical and other limited assurance pro­ Stockholm, 28 March 2018 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Karin Sivertsson Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 104 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 ÅF helps researchers understand how drone technology can be used to study climate change in polar environments. Read more in ÅF’s Green Advisor Report 2017. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 105 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT New strategy for continued profitability and growth During the past year, our priorities have centred around setting the stage for a new platform for ÅF’s future profitability and growth. As for many of ÅF’s customers, the rapid developments in society mean that business models and strategies must be redefined. The objective is to ensure added value for the company’s stakeholders. The Board of Directors is responsible, through sound corporate governance, for creating conditions for growth, and thus also value for shareholders, for whom we ultimately work. The work of the Board of Directors should therefore be to maintain continuity, while focusing on long-term strategic objectives, namely, growth and profitability. In April 2017, Jonas Gustavsso­n took over the role of President and CEO. During the year, ÅF launched a new strategy, called Future ÅF, together with reformulated financial targets and a new organisation that is adapted to deliver according to the new direction. The strategy has a clarified international focus and entails that ÅF will offer customers a more comprehensive package of solutions and concepts. The new strategy strengthens ÅF’s position as an engineering and design company. In 2017, a total of 12 businesses were acquired that Sustainable solutions are an integral part of the client will contribute to the company’s value generation offering in ÅF’s operations. The Board of Directors is through strengthened client offerings and continued heavily involved in and monitors sustainability develestablishments both in Sweden and abroad. The acopments. We focus attention on the business ethics quisitions made during the year have developed well of sustainability. As part of our corporate governance and in line with the company’s ambition to strengthduties we follow and monitor compliance with reguen its position as an international engineering and lations, primarily the UN Global Compact, regarding design company that delivers sustainable solutions ethics, anti-corruption and human rights, along with to the industrial, infrastructure and energy sectors. our decision-making processes and risk management Combined with organic growth, these acquisitions will within these areas. also provide a solid platform for continued growth in Overall, we have established a stable platform from 2018. which to develop ÅF’s business. We are now leaving ÅF’s ability to attract the best employees is a key a successful year behind us and look forward to an factor for the business, which makes it particularly eventful 2018. important to nurture the ÅF brand and the values it represents. Promoting ÅF’s brand is therefore linked Stockholm, March 2018 to the Board of Directors’ goals and commitment. Through sound corporate governance and control, the Anders Narvinger Board of Directors ensures that ÅF remains a credible Chairman of the Board and respected business partner and employer. 106 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance report This corporate governance report, prepared by the Rules of Procedure and the Board of Director’s instruccompany’s Board of Directors, covers the corporate tions for the CEO. Internal policies and instructions governance of ÅF during the 2017 financial year. The constitute essential management documents for the corporate governance report is submitted in accorwhole company, clarifying responsibility and authoridance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the ty within specific areas, such as information security, Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The corporegulatory compliance and risk management. rate governance report has been reviewed by KPMG, whose opinion follows immediately after the report. Ownership structure ÅF has issued two classes of shares: class A shares Corporate governance within ÅF and class B shares. Each class A share is entitled to ÅF AB is a Swedish public limited company domiciled 10 votes, and each class B share to 1 vote. in Stockholm. The company’s class B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Governance, management Number of shareholders: 11,528 and control are divided between the shareholders, the Class A shares: 3,217,752 Board of Directors, the CEO and the company’s Group Class B shares: 75,044,113 management in accordance with applicable laws, Total number of shares: 78,261,865 rules and recommendations and with ÅF’s Articles of of which own class B shares: 939,285 Association and internal regulations. The shareholdVotes: 107,221,633 ers’ meeting is the company’s highest decision-making body and is the forum in which the shareholders The largest shareholder at the end of 2017 was the exercise their voting rights. The Board of Directors and ÅForsk Foundation, with 37.2 percent of the votes. the Chairman of the Board are elected at the genSEB Investment Management had 7.3 percent and eral meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors Swedbank Robur Funds had 5.3 percent of the votes. appoints the CEO. The administration of the company by the Board of Directors and the CEO, as well as the ÅF’s Annual General Meeting company’s financial reporting are reviewed by the exThe shareholders’ meeting held within six months of ternal auditor appointed by the AGM. To streamline and the end of the financial year, and which approves the strengthen its work in certain areas, the Board of Direcincome statement and balance sheet, is called the Antors has appointed an Audit Committee and a Remunual General Meeting. Shareholders who are registered neration Committee. One important support function in the share register on the record day, and who have for the Audit Committee is ÅF’s Internal Audit Funcgiven sufficient notice of participation, have the right tion. ÅF applies the Swedish Corporate Governance to participate in the shareholders’ meeting. The notice Code (available at www.corporategovernanceboard. convening the AGM is published on the company’s se) and did not deviate from it in 2017. ÅF complies website and advertised in the Swedish Official Gazette. with Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers (available at The fact that the notice convening the AGM has been business.nasdaq.com/list/Rules-and-Regulations) and published is advertised in Dagens Industri. The 2017 generally accepted stock exchange practice. The most AGM was held at ÅF’s head office in Solna, Sweden, on important internal instrument of governance is the 25 April 2017. In total, 189 shareholders participated, Articles of Association adopted by the shareholders’ representing 62.4 percent of the share capital and 72.4 meeting. In addition, there are the Board of Director’s percent of the votes. In addition to the election of the Nomination Committee SHAREHOLDERS Auditors through general meeting Audit Committee Internal control BOARD OF DIRECTORS Remuneration Committee PRESIDENT/CEO Group-wide functions and processes GROUP MANAGEMENT Industry Division Infrastructure Division International Division Technology Division ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 107 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors, the AGM resolved to introduce the Director­­s. No remuneration has been paid for work on 2017 Staff Convertible Programme and authorised the the committee. All shareholders are entitled to apBoard of Directors to acquire and transfer own shares proach the committee with suggestions for members to and to issue new class B shares. The minutes of the serve on the Board of Directors. The committee’s promeeting together with all the documentation issued posals, the report on the committee’s work prior to the prior to the AGM are available on the ÅF website, under 2018 AGM, and supplementary information on proposed the section for Corporate Governance. members of the Board of Directors will be published in connection with the meeting notice and will be presentNomination Committee ed at the 2018 AGM. In accordance with a resolution passed at the 2017 AGM, the members of the Nomination Committee Board of Directors are appointed by at least three and at most five of The Board of Directors of ÅF shall consist of a minthe shareholders with the most votes. In addition, imum of six and a maximum of ten members, with a the Chairman of the Board shall be a member of the maximum of five deputies, appointed by the AGM. Nomination Committee. The names of the commitEight board members were elected at the 2017 AGM. In tee members were announced six months before the addition, the employees have two ordinary represenAGM. The Nomination Committee for the 2018 AGM tatives on the Board of Directors, with two deputies. comprises: Magnus Olofsson (Chair), appointed by The CEO is not a member of the Board of Directors. the ÅForsk Foundation; Monica Åsmyr, appointed The following members were re-elected to the Board by Swedbank Robur Funds; Jonathan Schönbäck, of Directors for 2017 as proposed by the Nomination appointed by Handelsbanken Asset Management; Committee: Staffan Jufors, Anders Narvinger, Björn O. Anders Narvinger, ÅF’s Chairman of the Board; Johan Nilsson, Maud Olofsson, Joakim Rubin, Kristina SchauStrandberg, appointed by SEB Investment Manageman and Anders Snell. Gunilla Berg was elected as a ment; and Rickard Wilson, appointed by Zeres Capital. new member. Anders Narvinger was elected by the AGM to serve as Chairman of the Board up until the Duties of the Nomination Committee close of the next AGM. The CEO, Jonas Gustavsson, The Nomination Committee submits proposals, prior to participates in meetings of the Board of Directors to the AGM, on the number of Board members, the compopresent reports. The Group’s CFO, Stefan Johanssition and remuneration of the Board of Directors, and son, also participates to present reports, and Jacob any fees payable for committee work. The committee Landén, ÅF’s senior legal adviser, acts as Secretary shall also submit proposals on who is to chair the Board to the Board of Directors. For more information on the of Directors and the AGM, as well as on auditors and their Board of Directors, please refer to pages 112–113 of remuneration. In accordance with its remit, the committhe annual report. The Nomination Committee’s protee shall also carry out any other duties assigned to it posed fees to be paid to the Board of Directors were under the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. approved by the AGM. The work of the Nomination Committee Diversity policy for the Board of Directors In the period up to and including 7 February 2018, the Rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code committee held five minuted meetings and maintained is applied as a diversity policy for the Board of Dicontact between meetings. To assess how well the rectors. The aim is for the Board of Directors to have present Board of Directors meets the demands that will an appropriate and versatile composition regarding be placed on the Board in consequence of the company experience and background, and that there should position and future focus, the committee has discussed be even gender distribution on the Board. As stated the size and composition of the Board in relation to, for above regarding the Nomination Committee’s work, it example, experience in the industry, specialist expertise has applied these criteria in formulating its proposal and diversity. Rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Govto the Board of Directors, which resulted in compliernance Code is applied as a diversity policy for the ance with the diversity policy. Board of Directors. The aim is for the Board of Directors to have combined skills and experience that are Independence of the Board of Directors appropriate for their work, as well as an equal gender The composition of the Board of Directors of ÅF balance. The Nomination Committee has adhered to meets the requirements for independent directors laid this aim and justified its proposals for the composition down by the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. of the Board in that the gender distribution, background Members of the Board of Directors Björn O. Nilsson and combined expertise of the proposed members fulfil and Anders Snell are dependent in relation to ÅF’s these aims. As a basis for the committee’s work for the shareholders with the most voting rights but are in2018 AGM, the Chairman of the Board has informed dependent of the company and Group management. the committee about the work of the Board of DirecThe other members of the Board of Directors are intors during the year and of the work undertaken by the dependent of the company’s major shareholders, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. company and Group management. The Nomination Committee has evaluated the Board of Directors and its work in 2017 by interviewing individuThe work of the Board of Directors al members of the Board. The Nomination Committee Each year the Board of Directors produces a written has also evaluated the levels of fees for the Board of formal work plan which sets out the responsibilities of 108 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 the Board and governs the allocation of duties among tors by safeguarding the quality of financial reports Board members, the rules for decision-making, dates and following up the results of the reviews and audits and times of Board meetings, notification, agenda and carried out by the external auditors. The company’s minutes for Board meetings, and the Board’s work with internal audit staff support the committee in its work. accounting and auditing matters. The ÅF Board of Since the inaugural meeting of the Board of Directors Directors holds an inaugural meeting in connection with in 2017, the Remuneration Committee has consisted the AGM. In addition, the Board of Directors is required of Kristina Schauman (Chair), Gunilla Berg and Björn to meet at least four times per calendar year. Every O. Nilsson. KPMG, the company’s audit firm, has been ordinary Board meeting follows the agenda set out in represented by chief accountant Joakim Thilstedt. the Board of Directors’ formal work plan, which includes The CFO and the manager of the Group Accounting a report from the CEO, a financial report and various and Reporting Department have attended to present strategic matters. The Board of Directors has elected reports. The company’s internal auditor has also atto appoint a Remuneration Committee and an Audit tended to present reports as required. The committee Committee. During the year, the Board of Directors held four minuted meetings during the year. held 11 meetings in addition to the inaugural meeting: seven were held at ÅF’s offices in Solna, one in another Evaluation of the Board of Directors and the CEO location and three by telephone for which the relevant The Nomination Committee conducted an evaluadocumentation was sent out in advance. Four of the tion of the Board of Directors and its work in 2017 by meetings were held in connection with the publication interviewing individual members of the Board. The of the company’s interim reports. The work of the Board evaluation covers areas such as the climate of coof Directors revolves mostly around strategic direcoperation, the breadth of expertise available and the tion, business plans, budgeting, annual accounts and way the work of the Board of Directors has been caracquisitions, and other decisions which must be dealt ried out. The object of the evaluation is to obtain an with by the Board of Directors under the resolutions understanding of the directors’ opinions on how the procedures. On one occasion per year, the Board of work of the Board of Directors has been carried out. Directors meets with the company’s auditors without The Board of Directors evaluates the work of the CEO the presence of management. On one occasion each on an ongoing basis, by monitoring the progress of year, the Board of Directors discusses issues related to the business against the targets that have been set. succession planning for senior executives in the comA formal evaluation is carried out once a year, and the pany. Jonas Gustavsson was appointed as President results are discussed with the CEO. and CEO in 2017, entering his position on 1 April 2017. A new strategy was developed and launched in 2017. The Attendance at Board and Committee meetings, 2017 Board of Directors participated in the strategy work, Attenwhich was discussed at several meetings from spring Attendance dance at until the Board’s strategy meeting in October. Attendance at Audit Remuneration at Board Committee Committee meetings1 meetings² meetings3 Remuneration Committee Total number of meetings 11 4 3 The task of the Remuneration Committee is to prepare Anders Narvinger 11 3 the guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives which is then decided by the AGM, and to submit Gunilla Berg 5 3 proposals to the Board of Directors for the salary and Marika Fredriksson 2 1 terms and conditions for the CEO. The committee also Staffan Jufors 10 deals with matters relating to the salary and terms Björn O. Nilsson 9 4 and conditions of employment for senior executives who report directly to the CEO, and overall terms of Maud Olofsson 10 employment and remuneration packages for all the Joakim Rubin 11 1 2 company’s employees. The Remuneration Committee Kristina Schauman 11 4 reports to the Board of Directors. Since the inaugural Anders Snell 11 3 meeting of 2017, the Remuneration Committee has consisted of Anders Narvinger (Chair), Joakim RuEmployee representatives 4 bin and Anders Snell. The CEO and the HR Manager Gunnar Parkefelt 6 participate as co-opted members. The committee held Fredrik Sundin 3 three minuted meetings during the year. Anders Toll 10 Audit Committee Tomas Ekvall (deputy) 1 The Audit Committee is a vital communication link Anders Forslund between the Board of Directors and the company’s (deputy) auditors. The Board’s Audit Committee is responsible 1) Gunilla Berg was appointed as a new board member at the 2017 AGM, replacing Marika for the auditor selection procedure, which is detailed Fredriksson who resigned. 2) At the inaugural meeting, Gunilla Berg was appointed as a new member of the Audit in the Auditors Ordinance, and for submitting its Committe­­­e. Joakim Rubin left the Audit Committee. auditor recommendation to the Nomination Commit3) Joakim Rubin was elected as a new member of the Remuneration Committee, replacing Marika Fredriksson. tee at the general meeting of shareholders. The Audit 4) Gunnar Parkefelt replaced Fredrik Sundin as regular employee representative on 25 April. Committee supports the work of the Board of DirecAnders Forslund joined as a deputy. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditors set out requirements for annual external disclosures The auditors work for and on behalf of the shareholdon how internal controls over financial reporting are ers to audit the company’s accounting records, the anorganised. Board members must keep themselves innual accounts and the administration of the Board of formed and evaluate the internal control system regDirectors and the CEO. A full audit of the annual report ularly. Internal controls at ÅF are designed to ensure and the consolidated financial statements is carried that the company’s operations are efficient and fit for out. The auditors also review the nine-month interim purpose, that financial reporting is reliable, and that report for the period up to September each year and applicable laws and regulations are complied with. ÅF attend the meetings of the Audit Committee. A review divides its internal controls over financial reporting is also carried out of the Group’s corporate governance into the following components: control environment, report, sustainability report and of compliance with the risk assessment, control activities, information and guidelines approved by the AGM relating to remunercommunication, and follow-up. ation of senior executives. The 2017 AGM elected the auditing firm KPMG, represented by Joakim Thilstedt Control environment as the auditor in charge, to serve until the end of the The control environment constitutes the basis for inter2018 AGM. The Audit Committee concluded that it will nal controls over financial reporting. One important asrecommend that the Nomination Committee propose pect of the control environment is that decision paths, the appointment of KPMG as auditor to the 2018 AGM authority and responsibility are clearly defined and for the period extending up until the 2019 AGM. communicated between different levels of the organisation, and that guidance documents are available in CEO and Group management the form of policies, guidelines and manuals. A descripThe Board of Directors has delegated operational tion of ÅF’s internal control system is included in the responsibility for the administration of the company company’s process-orientated business management and the Group to the company’s CEO. The CEO leads system used for managing and supporting day-to-day operations within the framework laid down by the business operations. This sets out the organisational Board of Directors. The Board has adopted instrucstructure, together with the authority and responsibility tions for the division of responsibility between the vested in the various roles in the business. The process Board of Directors and the CEO. These are updated orientation of the management system guides users to and approved each year. The CEO has appointed a the relevant routines and appropriate tools for the task Group management team with day-to-day responin question, thus providing a sound basis for compliance sibility for various operational aspects of the busiwith requirements and expectations for an appropriate ness. ÅF’s Group management normally meets once a control environment. The management system is availmonth to discuss matters such as the Group’s finanable to all employees via the ÅF intranet. cial performance, acquisitions, Group-wide development projects, succession planning and competence Risk assessment development, together with various other strategic ÅF’s risk assessment in respect of financial reporting issues. In 2017, Group management held nine full-day aims to identify and evaluate the key risks affecting meetings, as well as a two-day meeting with addifinancial reporting in the Group’s companies, busitional Group managers. In between, Group manageness areas, divisions, processes and operations, all of ment held shorter reviews of the new strategy and which can affect financial reporting. Risk assessment organisation that were launched in 2017. forms the basis for risk management and control, as Once a month the CEO and the CFO discuss each of well as control targets that help to ensure that the the divisions’ income statements, balance sheets, key fundamental requirements of external financial reratios and major projects with the relevant president porting are met. The risks are assessed, reported and and controller. Three times a year a whole-day review managed by ÅF centrally together with the divisions. is held with each division to examine more long-term Risks are also assessed and managed in other conissues, including HR, strategy and budget. At the end of texts; for example, risks associated with fixed-price 2017, ÅF’s management team consisted of: Jonas Gusprojects and acquisitions. tavsson, CEO; Roberto Gerosa, President, International Division; Jonas Larsson, Acting President, Industry DiControl activities vision; Mats Påhlsson, President, Infrastructure Division; To ensure that the business is run efficiently and that Lennart Waldenström, President, Technology Division; the scheduled financial reports consistently provide Rune Hardersen, Country Manager, Norway; Stefan a fair presentation of the situation, each process has Johansson, CFO; Emma Claesson, Vice President, HR several built-in control activities. These involve all levels and Communications; Lars-Eric Aaro, Sales Director; of the organisation. Responsibility for implementing and Nyamko Sabuni, Sustainability Manager. For further control activities at ÅF is allocated appropriately within information about the members of Group management, the organisation, with clear roles ensuring effectiveness please see pages 114–115 of the annual report. and reliability. Specific internal control activities are in place, with the aim of identifying or preventing the risk of The Board of Directors’ description of internal controls reporting errors. For all ÅF units, including those outside The Board of Directors’ responsibility for internal Sweden, result analysis takes place continuously. Other controls is regulated in the Swedish Companies Act control activities are carried out through the finance and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, which functions of the various divisions and ÅF AB’s Group 110 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Accounting and Reporting department. All accounting by guaranteeing control activities for key risk areas in and reporting activities for ÅF’s Swedish operations are the financial reporting process. The Audit Committee, centralised under ÅF Business Services (ÅBS) at the management and the internal audit function regularly Group’s head office, using standardised control profollow up any reported non-conformances. ÅF’s system cesses. Control activities at ÅBS include profit analyses for financial management and control paves the way for and other controls in respect of revenue and receivables, effective financial follow-ups throughout ÅF. Monthly payments, non-current assets, work in progress, wages reports are submitted for each profit centre, and the and salaries, VAT/tax, book-keeping, consolidation and reports on the financial performance of assignments reporting as well as the maintenance of databases. reflect the highest standards of reliability and detail. Any errors that are identified and any measures that Information and communication are taken are reported to the next level up in the line Information about and the communication of policies, organisation. ÅF’s internal audit function carries out inprocess descriptions, routines and tools applicable to dependent audits to monitor whether the internal confinancial reports are contained in the management trol and management systems live up to ÅF’s internal system that is available to the relevant personnel via ambitions and external requirements and expectations. the ÅF intranet. Updates are carried out in the event Priority areas for ÅF’s internal audits are the ÅF brand, of any changes in internal or external requirements or ÅF’s values and ethics, processes and systems, as well expectations regarding financial reports. Communicaas the assignments that ÅF has undertaken to perform. tion with internal and external parties is governed by Reports are submitted to the CEO and the Board of a communication and IR policy, which sets out guideDirectors’ Audit Committee. lines for the form this should take. The policy aims to ensure that all disclosure obligations are met properly Sustainability and in full. Internal communication aims to ensure that ÅF focuses on long-term strategic work aimed at enevery employee understands ÅF’s values and business suring the company becomes a more sustainable busiactivities. Information is actively communicated on an ness. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact, ongoing basis through the Group’s intranet and other the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and channels to keep employees informed. the Global Objectives for Sustainable Development form a foundation for the work. The company’s susFollow-up tainability objectives govern the priorities set in this Compliance and the efficacy of internal controls are area. This sustainability work is intended to contribute followed up on an ongoing basis by both the Board of to the company’s growth and is, therefore, followed up Directors and management to guarantee the quality of by both the Board of Directors and by Group manthe processes. The company’s financial situation and agement. The statutory sustainability report, whose strategy in respect of its financial position are considcontent is stated on page 94 in ÅF AB’s annual report, ered at every Board meeting. The Board of Directors has been approved for issue by the Board of Directors. also receives detailed monthly reports on the company’s financial position and the development of the busiStockholm, 7 February 2018 ness. The Audit Committee fulfils an important function The Board of Directors of ÅF AB Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of ÅF AB, corporate identity number 556120-6474 Engagement and responsibility Opinions The Board of Directors is responsible for the corA corporate governance statement has been preporate governance statement for the 2017 finanpared. Disclosures in accordance with Chapter 6, cial year on pages 107–111 and for preparing it in Section 6, Paragraph 2, Points 2-6 of the Swedish accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7, Section 31, Paragraph 2 of the same law are consistent with The scope of the audit the annual report and consolidated accounts and Our review has been conducted in accordance are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 Auditor’s Examination of the Corporate Governance StateStockholm, 28 March 2018 ment. This means that our examination of the KPMG AB corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conductJoakim Thilstedt ed in accordance with International Standards on Authorised Public Accountant Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that this examination provides sufficient grounds for our opinion. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 111 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors 1 Anders Narvinger 3 Staffan Jufors 1 3 Chairman of the Board and Director Chairman of the Remune­ Elected: 2014 ration Committee Born: 1951 Elected: 2011, Education: Graduate business Chairman of the Board 2014 administrator, Gothenburg School Born: 1948 of Business, Economics and Law Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Current position and other Faculty of Engineering, Lund significant duties outside ÅF: University, and graduate in Chairman of the Board of Ferro­ economics, Uppsala University nordic Machines AB. Board mem­ Current position and other ber of Uniflex AB and Nordens Ark. significant duties outside ÅF: Professional experience: Chairman of the Board of Alfa President of Volvo Trucks and Laval AB. Volvo Penta, Chairman of the Professional experience: CEO Board of Volvo Buses. of the Association of Swedish Shareholding: 2,000 class B Engineering Industries (Teknik­ shares företagen), former President and 2 4 CEO of ABB Sverige. 4 Björn O. Nilsson Shareholding: 20,000 class B Director and member of the shares Audit Committee Elected: 2010 2 Gunilla Berg Born: 1956 Director and member of the Education: Doctor of Technology, Audit Committee M.Sc., Royal Institute of Techno­ Elected: 2017 logy (KTH), Stockholm. Born: 1960 Current position and other Education: MBA School of significant duties outside ÅF: Economic­­­s , Stockholm Professor, member of the Royal Current position and other Swedish Academy of Engineer­ significant duties outside ÅF: ing Sciences (IVA), senior lecturer CFO, PostNord. Director of Atlas at Royal Institute of Technology, Copco AB. Stockholm. Chairman of the Board Professional experience: Vice of BioInvent International AB and President and CFO of the SAS the ÅForsk Foundation. Director Group, Vice President and CFO of SwedNano Tech AB. 5 of the KF Group. Professional experience: Vice Shareholding: – President, Biovitrum AB; President KaroBio AB, Director of Research, Amersham Pharmacia Biotech AB. Shareholding: – 5 Maud Olofsson Director Elected: 2013 Born: 1955 Education: Secondary education Current position and other significant duties outside ÅF: Chairman of the Board of Visita. Director of Arise AB, Diös Fastig­ heter AB, Envac AB, Confedera­ tion of Swedish Enterprise. Mem­ ber of Macquarie Advisory Board. Professional experience: Party Chair of the Centre Party, Sweden's Minister of Enterprise, Energy and Communications 2006–2011, Sweden’s Deputy Prime Minister 2006–2010. Shareholding: 4,000 class B shares 112 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 6 9 6 Joakim Rubin 9 Gunnar Parkefelt Director and member of the Director, employee Remuneration Committee representative Elected: 2012 Elected: 2017 Born: 1960 Born: 1953 Education: Master of Engineering, Education: M.Sc. Electrical Institute of Technology, Linkoping Engineering Chalmers University University of Technology Current position and other Current position: Employed in significant duties outside ÅF: ÅF’s Digital Solutions Division. Funding Partner at Zeres Cap­ Professional experience: ital Partners. Board member of Senior consultant in telecommu­ Cramo plc, Hoist Finance AB and nication, automotive, manage­ Capio AB. ment and purchasing/procure­ Professional experience: Senior ment for major projects, Digital Partner at Finnish venture cap­ Solutions Division. ital company CapMan. Head of Shareholding: – Corporate Finance and Debt, 7 10 Handels­b anken Capital Markets. 10 Anders Toll Shareholding: – Director, employee representative 7 Kristina Schauman Elected: 2009 Director and Chair of the Born: 1955 Audit Committee Education: Engineer Elected: 2012 Current position: Employed in Born: 1965 ÅF’s Industry Division. Education: MBA, Stockholm Professional experience: School of Economics Inspection Engineer, Project Current position and other Engineer in Industry Division. significant duties outside ÅF: Shareholding: 254 class B shares Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Apoteket AB, DEPUTIES BillerudKorsnäs AB, Orexo AB, Coor Service Management Hold­ Tomas Ekvall ing AB and Ellos Group Holding Deputy employee AB. Director of Livförsäkrings­ representative 8 bolaget Skandia, mutual and Elected: 2017 BEWi Group AB. Born: 1981 Professional experience: CFO of Education: Engineer, IT & OMX, Carnegie and Apoteket AB, Automation CEO of Apoteket AB and CFO of Current position: Employed in Investor AB. ÅF’s Industry Division. Shareholding: 2,500 class B Shareholding: 258 class B shares shares Anders Forslund 8 Anders Snell Deputy employee Director and member of the representative Remuneration Committee Elected: 2012 Elected: 2009 Born: 1974 Born: 1950 Education: Graduate Engineer, Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Lund Royal Institute of Technology University (KTH), Stockholm Current position: Employed in Current position and other ÅF’s Industry Division. significant duties outside ÅF: Shareholding: 600 class B shares Chairman of the Board of Wibax AB and executive member of the ÅForsk Foundation. Professional experience: Senior Vice President BillerudKorsnäs, Shareholding 31 Dec 2017 Senior Vice President AssiDomän, Auditors CEO Grycksbo, CEO Norrsundet KPMG AB Bruks AB, Chairman of the Board Auditor in charge of the ÅForsk Foundation. Joakim Thilstedt Shareholding: 3,000 class B shares ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 113 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Group management 1 Jonas Gustavsson 3 Emma Claesson 1 3 President and CEO EVP and Head of Human Employed: 2017 Resources & Born: 1967 Communications Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Employed: 2014 Luleå University of Technology Born: 1974 Professional experience: Business Education: MBA, Uppsala Area Manager Sandvik Machining University Solutions 2013-2017 and Sandvik Professional experience: VP HR Materials Technology 2011-2013. SSAB EMEA, Director Leader­ Prior to that, several leading posi­ ship & Competence Development tions at Sandvik and Vice Presi­ SSAB, Management Consultant dent of Operations at BRP-­Rotax Accenture (Austria). Leading positions at Shareholding: 345 class B shares Bombardier and ABB. 2015 Staff Convertible Shareholding: 7,500 class B Programme: nominal amount shares SEK 3,000,000 2017 Staff Convertible 2016 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount Programme: nominal amount 2 4 SEK 6,000,000 SEK 3,000,000 2017 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount 2 Lars-Eric Aaro SEK 3,000,000 EVP and Head of Corporate Sales Employed: 2015 4 Roberto Gerosa Born: 1956 EVP and Head of Education: M.Sc. Mining Energy Division Engineering, Luleå University of Employed: 2007 Technolog­­­y Born: 1965 Professional experience: CEO Education: M.Sc., Swiss Federal LKAB, Divisional Manager Boliden, Institute of Technology, Zurich Sales Director Atlas Copco/­ Professional experience: CEO Secoroc AF-Colenco Ltd, Switzerland, CEO Shareholding: 0 class B shares Colenco Power Engineering Ltd, 2016 Staff Convertible Switzerland Programme: nominal amount Shareholding: 47,158 class B 5 SEK 3,000,000 shares 2017 Staff Convertible 2015 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 SEK 3,000,000 2016 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 2017 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 5 Rune Hardersen EVP and Managing Director ÅF-Norway Employed: 2012 Born: 1975 Education: MSc, NTNU, Master of Technology Management, NTNU/ Norwegian School of Economics. Professional experience: CEO Advansia, Project Director Advansia Shareholding: 0 B shares 2015 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 900,000 2016 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 900,000 2017 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 900,000 114 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 6 9 6 Stefan Johansson 9 Nyamko Sabuni CFO EVP and Head of Employed: 2011 Sustainability Born: 1958 Employed: 2013 Education: MBA, Linköping Born: 1969 University Education: Law, Uppsala Professional experience: CFO University­­­­; Information and Haldex och Duni, various positions Communi­c ation, Berghs School of in the ABB Group Communication; Migration Policy, Shareholding: 28,848 class B Mälardalens University shares Professional experience: Ministe­r 2015 Staff Convertible in Swedish government, Membe­r Programme: nominal amount of Swedish Parliament and its SEK 3,000,000 Committee on Industry and 2016 Staff Convertible Trade, Communications Advisor Programme: nominal amount Geelmyuden Kiese, Project SEK 3,000,000 Manager Folksam Social Council 7 10 2017 Staff Convertible Shareholding: 668 class B shares Programme: nominal amount 2016 Staff Convertible SEK 3,000,000 Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 7 Jonas Larsson Acting EVP and Head of 10 Lennart Waldenström Industry Division EVP and Head of Digital Employed: 1997 Solutions Division Born: 1970 Employed: 2006 Education: M.Sc.Technology Born: 1972 Professional experience: Education: M.Sc. Technology Consultant, Project Manager at Professional experience: CEO ÅF, various leading positions at ÅF Combra Industriteknik, CEO since 2001 ÅF-Combra, Business Area Shareholding: 2,372 class B shares Manager­­­­ ÅF, Sales Manager ÅF 2015 Staff Convertible Technology Programme: nominal amount Shareholding: 970 class B shares SEK 600,000 2015 Staff Convertible 8 2016 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount Programme: nominal amount SEK 900,000 SEK 900,000 2016 Staff Convertible 2017 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount Programme: nominal amount SEK 900,000 SEK 900,000 2017 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount 8 Mats Påhlsson SEK 900,000 EVP and Head of Infrastructure Division Employed: 2009 Born: 1954 Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Lulea University of Technology Professional experience: Site Engineer Skanska, CEO SWECO VBB Viak and SWECO VBB, Business Area Manager ÅF Infra­s tructure Planning Shareholding: 31,536 class B shares 2015 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 2016 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 2017 Staff Convertible Programme: nominal amount SEK 3,000,000 ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 115 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY Five-year financial summary, SEK SEK million, unless otherwise stated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net sales and profit Net sales 12,658 11,070 9,851 8,805 8,337 EBITA excluding items affecting comparability 1,117 996 861 770 843 EBITA 1,027 992 817 756 843 Operating profit (EBIT) 1,033 965 839 756 722 Profit after financial items 957 923 799 720 677 Profit for the period 742 711 609 553 525 Capital structure Non-current assets 7,070 6,462 5,224 4,638 4,499 Current assets 4,308 3,945 3,093 2,666 2,575 Equity including non-controlling interest 4,989 4,697 4,230 3,955 3,674 Non-current liabilities 2,323 2,880 1,527 1,021 1,170 Current liabilities 4,067 2,830 2,559 2,328 2,230 Balance sheet total 11,378 10,407 8,316 7,304 7,074 Equity (average) 4,813 4,473 4,115 3,805 3,498 Total capital (average) 10,835 9,166 8,016 7,317 7,237 Capital employed (average) 7,565 6,581 5,694 5,005 4,736 Net debt 2,631 2,298 1,486 870 853 Key ratios EBITA margin excluding items affecting comparability 8.8 9.0 8.7 8.7 10.1 EBITA margin, % 8.1 9.0 8.3 8.6 10.1 Operating margin, percent 8.2 8.7 8.5 8.6 8.7 Profit margin, percent 7.6 8.3 8.1 8.2 8.1 Equity ratio, percent 43.8 45.1 50.9 54.1 51.9 Net debt/EBITDA, times 2.3 2.1 1.6 1.0 1.0 Net debt-equity ratio, percent 52.7 48.9 35.1 22.0 -23.2 Current ratio, times 1.1 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.2 Return on equity, percent 15.4 15.9 14.8 14.5 15.0 Return on total capital, percent 9.4 10.5 10.5 10.4 10.1 Return on capital employed, percent 13.5 14.7 14.8 15.2 15.4 Interest cover, times 20.0 22.6 20.0 19.3 14.4 The ÅF share Basic earnings per share, SEK 9.58 9.32 7.81 7.16 6.71 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 9.39 9.14 7.63 7.03 6.60 Dividend yield, percent 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.9 Equity per share, SEK 64.30 60.19 54.46 51.17 47.33 Diluted equity per share, SEK 62.01 58.50 52.85 49.74 45.86 Cash flow from operating activities per basic share, SEK 8.03 7.98 6.75 7.78 5.45 Cash flow from operating activities per diluted share, SEK 7.78 7.75 6.54 7.55 5.31 Share price 31 December, SEK 180.90 167.00 143.75 126.00 112.50 Market capitalisation 13,988 12,978 11,153 9,734 8,703 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 5.00 1 4.50 3.75 3.50 3.25 Other Cash flow from operating activities 624 622 523 601 425 Cash flow from investing activities -525 -963 -807 -238 -199 Cash flow from financing activities -209 411 370 -367 -529 Capacity utilisation rate, percent 77.6 77.6 76.9 76.1 75.1 Average number of FTEs excluding associates 9,292 8,115 7,453 6,887 6,666 1) Proposed dividend A 2:1 share split was carried out in 2014. The comparative figures have been adjusted. 116 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Five-year financial summary, EUR EUR million, unless otherwise stated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Closing day exchange rate 9.85 9.57 9.14 9.52 8.94 Average exchange rate 9.63 9.47 9.36 9.10 8.65 Net sales and profit Net sales 1,314 1,169 1,053 968 964 EBITA excluding items affecting comparability 116 105 92 85 97 EBITA 107 105 87 83 97 Operating profit (EBIT) 107 102 90 83 83 Profit after financial items 99 97 85 79 78 Profit for the period 77 75 65 61 61 Capital structure Non-current assets 718 675 572 487 503 Current assets 437 412 339 280 288 Equity including non-controlling interest 507 491 463 416 411 Non-current liabilities 236 301 167 107 131 Current liabilities 413 296 280 245 249 Balance sheet total 1,155 1088 910 768 791 Equity (average) 500 472 440 418 404 Total capital (average) 1,125 968 857 804 837 Capital employed (average) 785 695 609 550 548 Net debt 267 240 163 91 95 Key ratios EBITA margin excluding items affecting comparability 8.8 9.0 8.7 8.7 10.1 EBITA margin 8.1 9.0 8.3 8.6 10.1 Operating margin, percent 8.2 8.7 8.5 8.6 8.7 Profit margin, percent 7.6 8.3 8.1 8.2 8.1 Equity ratio, percent 43.8 45.1 50.9 54.1 51.9 Net debt/EBITDA, times 2.3 2.1 1.6 1.0 1.0 Net debt-equity ratio, percent 52.7 48.9 35.1 22.0 -23.2 Current ratio, times 1.1 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.2 Return on equity, percent 15.4 15.9 14.8 14.5 15.0 Return on total capital, percent 9.4 10.5 10.5 10.4 10.1 Return on capital employed, percent 13.5 14.7 14.8 15.2 15.4 Interest cover, times 20 22.6 20.0 19.3 14.4 The ÅF share Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.99 0.98 0.83 0.79 0.78 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.97 0.97 0.82 0.77 0.76 Dividend yield, percent 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.9 Equity per share, EUR 6.53 6.29 5.96 5.38 5.29 Diluted equity per share, EUR 6.31 6.11 5.79 5.23 5.13 Cash flow from operating activities per basic share, EUR 0.83 0.84 0.72 0.85 0.63 Cash flow from operating activities per diluted share, EUR 0.81 0.82 0.70 0.83 0.61 Share price 31 December, EUR 18.37 17.46 15.74 13.24 12.58 Market capitalisation 1,420 1,357 1,221 1,023 973 Ordinary dividend per share, EUR 0.51 1 0.47 0.41 0.37 0.36 Other Cash flow from operating activities 65 66 56 66 49 Cash flow from investing activities -55 -102 -86 -26 -23 Cash flow from financing activities -22 43 40 -40 -61 Capacity utilisation rate, percent 77.6 77.6 76.9 76.1 75.1 Average number of FTEs excluding associates 9,292 8,115 7,453 6,887 6,666 1) Proposed dividend A 2:1 share split was carried out in 2014. The comparative figures have been adjusted. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 117 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Alternative performance measures Organic growth 2017 Group-wide % Industry Infrastructure International Technology and eliminations Group Growth 10.2 14.4 39.5 8.4 14.3 Acquired 5.3 11.4 43.2 3.0 11.0 Organic growth 4.9 3.0 -3.7 5.4 3.3 of which currency -0.1 -0.4 -0.8 0.0 0.4 o  f which calendar, difference in number of working days 0.4 0.4 0.7 0.4 -0.3 Adjusted/underlying organic growth 5.2 3.0 -3.8 5.7 3.5 EBITA/Adjusted EBITA 2017 Group-wide SEK m Industry Infrastructure International Technology and eliminations Group Operating profit (EBIT) 433 461 110 185 -155 1,033 Acquisition-related items Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 1 38 38 Revaluation of contingent considerations/option -44 -44 Profit/loss (EBITA) 433 461 111 185 -162 1,027 Items affecting comparability Restructuring costs 90 90 Adjusted EBITA 433 461 111 185 -72 1,117 EBITA margin/Adjusted EBITA margin 2017 Group-wide % Industry Infrastructure International Technology and eliminations Group EBIT margin 8.9 10.0 7,2 9,5 8.2 Acquisition-related items Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0.3 Revaluation of contingent considerations/option -0.4 EBITA margin 8.9 10.0 7,2 9,5 8.1 Items affecting comparability Restructuring costs 0.7 Adjusted EBITA margin 8.9 10.0 7,2 9,5 8.8 118 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 DEFINITIONS Definitions Acquisition-related items – Depreciation/amorti­ Net debt/net cash – Interest-bearing liabilities sation and impairment of goodwill and acquisition-­ (excluding contingent considerations) and pension related intangible assets, revaluation of contingent provisions less cash, cash equivalents and interestconsiderations and gains/losses on disposal of bearing receivables. companies and operations. Net debt/equity ratio – Net debt in relation to equity Average number of FTEs – Average number of FTEs including non-controlling interests. during the year converted to the equivalent number of year-long, full-time positions. The actual number of Number of employees – Total number of employees employees is higher, owing to part-time employment at end of reporting period. and the fact that some employees work for only part Operating margin – Operating profit in relation to net of the year. sales. Capacity utilisation – Time invoiced to clients in Operating margin excl. items affecting comparability relation to total time all employees are present at – Operating margin adjusted for items affecting work. comparability. Cash flow per share – Cash flow from operating Operating profit (EBIT) – Profit/loss before net activities in relation to average number of financial items and tax (earnings before interest and outstanding shares. taxes). Current ratio – Current assets in relation to current Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability liabilities. – Operating profit/loss adjusted for items affecting Dividend yield – Dividend per share in relation to comparability. share price at end of reporting period. Organic growth – Total growth in relation to net sales Earnings per share – Earnings attributable to the less acquired growth. parent’s shareholders in relation to average number of Profit margin – Profit/loss after financial items, in outstanding shares. ÅF’s own shares are not regarded relation to net sales. as outstanding shares. Return on capital employed – Profit/loss after EBITA – Earnings before interest, taxes and amorti­ financial items and restoration of financial expenses sation. Operating profit/loss with restoration of in relation to average balance sheet total, less non-­ acquisition-related items. interest-bearing liabilities and net deferred tax. EBITA margin – EBITA in relation to net sales. Return on equity – Profit/loss after tax in relation EBITDA – Earnings before interest, taxes, to average shareholders’ equity including non-­ depreciation and amortisation. Operating profit/loss controlling interests. before interest, taxes, impairment and depreciation/ Return on total capital – Profit/loss after financial amortisation. items and restoration of financial expenses, in relation Equity ratio – Equity including non-controlling to average balance sheet total. interests in relation to balance sheet total. Rolling twelve-month sales and operating profit – Equity per share – Equity attributable to the parent’s Net sales and operating profit for the most recent shareholders relative to total number of outstanding twelve-month period. shares. Interest cover – Profit/loss after financial items with restoration of financial expenses in relation to financial expenses. ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 119 CALENDAR 2018 Calendar 2018 25 April Annual General Meeting 25 April Interim report January–March 2018 13 July Interim report January–June 2018 24 October Interim report January–September 2018 120 | ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Group Head Office: ÅF AB 169 99 Stockholm Visitors’ address: Frösundaleden 2, Solna Tel: +46 10 505 00 00 www.afconsult.com info@afconsult.com Corp. ID 556120-6474 Production: Narva in cooperation with ÅF. Photographer: Daniel Ohlsson, Robin Nilssen and Fredrik Hvass. Printing: Elanders, Mölnlycke, 2018. The Swedish text is the binding version and shall prevail in the event of any discrepancies. This is a translation of the Swedish original.  ÅF Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 | 121 ÅF is an engineering and design company within the fields of energy, industry and infrastructure. We create sustainable solutions for the next generation through talented people and technology. We are based in Europe and our business and clients are found all over the world. ÅF – Making Future.
