Corporate Social Responsibility Report United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director On behalf of Dhiraagu, it is my pleasure to present the Communication on Progress (COP) Report for the year 2017 to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Similar to previous years, we carried out various initiatives under our CSR programme, focusing on children, youth and the environment. We also remain committed to the 10 principles of the Global Compact covering the core areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Through this report, we are pleased to communicate our approach, actions and the progress we have made in implementing those principles. The report will be available on our website dhiraagu.com.mv Sincerely, Ismail Rasheed Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Introduction DHIRAGU became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in December 2012 and this report is the sixth Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year 2017, from January – December. The report is divided into two parts; Section 1 Provides an overview about our business and our approach to corporate social responsibility. Section 2 Describes our policies, implementation and outcomes in relation to the specific Global Compact Principles. Section 1 Our Business Our Business Our Vision Our Mission Enrich lives through digital To lead the market through services. excellence in customer experience. Our Values Collaborate Innovate We work together to offer our We constantly innovate to provide customers a seamless experience our customers with the latest and best in digital services Serve Inspire We keep our customer at the heart We empower people, and never of all we do, because we win when lose sight of the bigger picture of they do nation-building and growth Who We Are Dhiraagu is the leading digital and telecommunications service provider in the Maldives. Our business is to provide future-proof digital and telecommunications connectivity that enable our customers to get ahead in the digital future. We are the pioneers that ushered the Maldives into the digital age, and we continue to lead the field by placing premium value on customer experience and consistent innovation to enhance our customers’ lives through digital technology. With over 500,000 customers, and employing 99% trained Maldivians present across nine strategic operating centers throughout the country, we remain the Maldives’ largest telecoms and digital service provider. Our Products & Services Our Shareholding Dhiraagu brings the latest innovations and technology BTC Islands Limited (Batelco) holding 52%, and the to help all our customers succeed in an increasingly Government of Maldives holding 41.8%, are the two connected world. We offer a comprehensive range of substantial shareholders of Dhiraagu. The remaining services spanning mobile, internet, data, IPTV, mobile 6.2% of shares are held by the general public. money and fixed services and also ensure reliable With nearly three decades of excellence and a proven international connectivity and coverage within the record of success, we continue to lead as the Maldives’ Maldives. We provide leading enterprise solutions leading digital services and telecommunications from dedicated internet access to managed services provider. and offer our customers peace of mind through our disaster recovery and redundancy offerings. Corporate Social Responsibility The three pillars in our Key focus areas under our CSR Strategy community pillar Our People Our Environment Our Community Care for Children Empowering Young People At Dhiraagu our work is motivated by the principles Our people refers to the Dhiraagu family of staff, of the largest utilisers of renewable energy in the of good corporate citizenship. We seek to set an whose welfare and wellbeing remain a principal Maldives. example for the rest of society by adhering to the concern of ours. Likewise, we are a distinctly Maldivian highest levels of integrity, sound ethics, transparency company who play an important role in strengthening Our CSR actions are informed by our CSR strategy and and accountability. We actively reinforce our ties to the social fabric of our society, which is why we guided by Dhiraagu CSR Committee. The Committee the Maldivian community by contributing to nation remain committed to programes that protect and is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing building and societal development. Which is why our preserve the sanctity of children, provide development Director and is represented by senior management CSR initiatives are strategically programmed to have opportunities for young people and foster a culture from various departments. We remain committed maximum impact and ensure sustainability. of learning within the community. As one of the to our obligations under the United Nations Global most climate vulnerable countries in the world, we Compact, the largest voluntary CSR initiative in the We have three key pillars of focus for our CSR are committed to ensuring environmental protection world, and remain steadfast in our commitment to initiatives our people, our community and our and building a more climate-resilient country in the promote the key areas of Human Rights, Labour, the environment. Maldives. We are committed to protecting our oceans Environment and AntiCorruption. and reduce our carbon footprint by remaining as one Our Community Care for Children disabilities at Twitsal (futsal tournament), the largest social media event in Maldives. Our eleventh annual Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race was held which is the largest run in the country On World Down Syndrome Day, volunteers from and dedicated to help protect children. With the Dhiraagu participated in the “Buddy Walk” to participation of 3,000 runners and support from over support the NGOBeautiful Eyes Down Syndrome 200 staff members, the event was a huge success. Association to help raise awareness on Downs Syndrome. 300 children of various age groups participated in the seventh Annual Dhiraagu Special Sports Renewed membership of ‘GSMA Mobile Alliance Festival. This event organized by Dhiraagu is a highly Against Child Sexual Abuse Content’ with the anticipated and popular event among schools and Internet Watch Foundation, to block child sexual NGOs working with children with disabilities. Over abuse content from Dhiraagu’s network. Dhiraagu fifteen schools and NGOs participated in the event. was the first and the only operator from Maldives to have joined this alliance along with other We continued our support to the Kudakudhinge Hiya leading telecom operators from around the world. by sponsoring teachers to support the children at the organage. As part of the company’s Eid Al Fitr celebrations we distributed Eid gifts to children across Male’ and atolls with Dhiraagu Regional Operations Centres. We pledged to support Care Society to help establish a vocational training unit for young adults with Empowering Young People During the year, 19 new apprentices were enrolled and 22 apprentices graduated from Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Program, one of our key CSR programmes targeted for youth to gain work experience and develop skills. Other highlights include our focused collaborations with UNDP Maldives to empower youth. Three key initiatives were launched during the year targeted specifically on youth development and empowerment. Techstars Startup Weekend Maldives was held in The first regional Youth Leadership Programme partnership with UNDP and Enterprise Development was held with learning sessions and skills building Maldives to help Maldivian young entrepreneurs to exercises for youth, the objective was to increase shape and transform innovative ideas into potential civic participation in community development businesses. This was the first international initiative issues. to support and nurture the growth of startups in Maldives. Film for Change programme aimed at empowering young people to explore social issues through the medium of film. The programme included a training component by industry experts which resulted in the production of short films by the trainees on key social themes. Information under “Caring for our People” and “Caring for our Environment” is detailed under Section 2 of the report under the respective Global Compact Principles. Section 2 Global Compact Principles United Nations Global CompactHuman Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, Assessment, Policy and Goals Caring for our People Our committed and talented workforce is the most important and distinct strength, and the driving force behind our continued growth and success. We closed the year with 598 permanent full time staff, of whom 99% are Maldivians. The Maldives is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we remain committed to comply with all local laws and regulations pertaining to it. Grievance Policy and Medical Care Procedure We have an in-house medical benefits scheme that offers more benefits and is more comprehensive than A Grievance Policy and Procedure was implemented in a basic health insurance scheme. The medical benefits 2015 setting out the mechanism for employees to raise scheme applies to all staff and to their dependents any concerns regarding any work related matters. (children under age of 18). Whistle Blowing and Fraud Retirement Care Reporting We continue to contribute 10% to the employee pension fund, which is beyond the 7% required by law. A Whistle Blowing and Fraud Reporting policy and We have had a Retirement and Redundancy Policy procedure was established in 2014 to strengthen the and a voluntary retirement benefit scheme in place, human resource governance structures within the even before the establishment of the national pension company, raising confidence of our colleagues and scheme in 2009. Code of Conduct Health and Safety • To provide staff with relevant information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure health and safety at work We place great emphasis to conduct our affairs in a We are committed to ensuring the health and safety fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest of all our staff. Apart from complying with local • To ensure that a conducive work environment is standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity and legislations, we work towards achieving international established for our staff ethical behavior. We have adopted internal policies best practices in relevant areas relating to our industry which promote ethical and responsible conduct. and specific work environments. These policies provide guidance to our Directors, management and employees on the standards of We have the following targets: ethical business and personal conduct required of all employees in undertaking their daily business • To ensure that work activities are not harmful to the activities. health of employees or to the general public and are as safe as is reasonably practicable We target for all our employees to become familiar with our Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. Our • To provide and to maintain adequate measures Ethics Policy, recognizes that our success depends to control health and safety risks arising from work on the ability to establish and maintain positive activities in order to prevent accidents and cases or relationships, both internally within employees and workrelated ill health externally with our stakeholders Implementation Employee Induction Health and Safety • Ensure that all personnel are given information, instruction, training and supervision as appropriate in Programme implementation order to carry out their work safely. • Carry out assessments of risk to the health and The Ethics Policy together with the code of conduct is Our Health and Safety Policy is applicable to all safety of persons involved in or affected by the communicated with all new employees as part of the Dhiraagu employees and contractors. All senior operations of their departments Employee Induction Programme and is shared on the managers are responsible to ensure that the Safety • Arrange induction safety training for all new online employee portal for further reference policy is implemented in their respective functions. As employees. part of the Induction Programme, all staff are briefed • Ensure that all firefighting equipment is regularly with regard to safety procedures including fire and inspected and serviced. Committee to Prevent first aid procedures. Sexual Harassment at A Safety Committee with representatives from all Workplace departments and regional centres is in place and a Safety Management Review is organised once a month in order to monitor and review the programme. Our Committee to Prevent Sexual Harassment at the Workplace is primarily responsible for increasing The company implements the following in accordance awareness to prevent sexual harassment, conduct to the Health and Safety Policy investigations regarding any complaints and to take • Ensure that safe systems of work are implemented necessary actions against any persons who is proved and reviewed. to have carried out an act of sexual harassment. Measurement of Outcomes • The Induction Programme was conducted for all new staff and the ethics policy, code of conduct and safety procedures were briefed to ensure that employees are familiar with the policies from the very beginning. • The Health and Safety Environment Manual was reviewed and updated. • An MOU was signed with Fire and Rescue Service of Maldives National Defense Force for regular fire inspections and fire safety at Dhiraagu • Basic fire awareness training was provided for 240 employees. • Fire safety inspections and awareness sessions were carried out at all the Regional Operation Centres. • First Aid training was provided to 50 staff including new apprentices. • Training on rigging, tower climbing and tower rescue was carried out for 58 staff. • A company-wide campaign was carried out to provide vaccine against H1N1 influenza for staff and their families. United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We ensure to comply with local employment laws in the Maldives. We do not engage or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. We also ensure to eliminate discrimination with respect to employment in all our operations. Implementation We believe in open, transparent dialogue with regard to labor related issues within the organization. We adhere to the Maldives Employment Act to ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Staff Engagement developmental opportunities to support our staff in achieving business objectives along with their professional development. Following our brand refresh Dhiraagu seeks to foster a healthy work life balance for campaign, a companywide induction training program our staff and their families. Throughout the year, the was carried out to familiarize all staff to the new brand e-club together with the HR Department organized identity and activate redefined core values various events in this regard. Key highlights include: • Snap & Snack – to welcome all staff to 2017. • Special Ramazan events including Quran and Madhaha competition and Roadha Festival. HRD Board • Inter office Netball Tournament, Inter Office TT Tournament, Women’s day celebrations and the To periodically review human resource development Dhiraagu Employees Soccer Cup (DESCUP 2017). plans, policies and procedures and recommend • Fun Friday – with over 400 staff and family enjoyed strategic directions, a Human Resources Board (HRD a fun evening playing exciting games, activities and Board) is established and the committee convenes food. • Inter-Department Fishing Competition 200 staff actively participated. Legal Reviews Dhiraagu’s General Counsel regularly gives legal advice Staff Development on employment issues to deal within the bounds of the Employment law and company procedures. Our Human Resources Development Strategy focuses on providing a wide range of training and Measurement of Outcomes • During the year, 485 staff were trained in technical and non-technical areas. This includes 82 staff who completed professional certification programs during the year. • Brand induction sessions were extended to over 90 percent of staff through structured learning and team building activities during the year. • At the Annual Award function, long service, outstanding work performance, leadership and teamwork were recognizedA total of 49 staff and 3 work teams received awards in these categories United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of Environmentally friendly technologies Implementation Protecting and preserving our natural environment and ensuring environmental sustainability in our corporate practices is a priority goal for us. Unite for Climate Action donated reusable bags. We also supported Parley Maldives in carrying out school awareness sessions to reduce ocean plastic and distributed reusable bags to We supported UNDP’s “Unite for Climate Action” school children in Kulhudhuffushi. programme with the objective to improve community skills in addressing climate change related emergencies and natural disasters Renewable Energy Care for the Oceans We seek to reduce our carbon footprint through increasingly relying on renewable energy to power We continued our Care for the Oceans programme to our various systems. We are a long way off from raise awareness against single use plastic. completely weaning off fossil fuels, yet we take great We supported “Save the Beach”, a youth movement pride in our role as one the largest producers and focused on conserving the beaches in Vilingili, by users of renewable energy in the country. During the supporting the “Moodhu Majaa” festival to host various year, we completed a project to install 134kWp of grid activities such as snorkeling, beach cleanups. connected solar panels in 5 islands. -Our staff joined the ‘Heyvahlaa Saafu Kuramaa Male’ City Clean Up’ programme organized by Maldives Inland Revenue Authority (MIRA). -We marked the International Coastal Cleanup Day with a beach cleanup event at Kulhudhuffushi and Energy Efficiency The sustainable green design features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office leads to significant energy consumption efficiencies. • All the lights used in the building, including emergency lights are 99% LED lights • Motion detectors/sensors are used to switch off the lights in common areas of the building such as corridors, staircases, toilet areas etc, to ensure lights are switched off when not in use. • High heat reflective glass is used in building facade to minimise heat entering into the building • Ozone friendly refrigerant R410A is used in the VRV AC units installed in the building. • Air conditioning is set at a minimum 25 degree Celsius in all main office areas. The office adopts central AC control, where air-conditioning is centrally turned off at pre-set times and is limited to official working hours. Measurement of Outcomes • Through the additional solar panel installations, we produced 219,000 Kwh of renewable energy during the year, which resulted in an approximated reduction of 153 metric tons of CO2 emitted. • The energy saving features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office resulted in an annual reduction of approximately 390,228 kwh of electricity, which is also equivalent to 276 metric tons of CO2 or 636 barrels of oil. United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy and Goals Dhiraagu’s Anti-Bribery Policy comprehensively addresses in detail with regard Implementation Supplier Code of Conduct to the following; • We do not tolerate bribery, and do not offer, give or receive bribes or improper payments or participate in any kind of corrupt activity, either directly or through From 2013 onwards, it was made mandatory for all our suppliers to sign the a third party. Supplier Code of conduct when entering into a contract with us. This code of • We do not make facilitation payments and we do not allow others who work conduct addresses the commitment to comply with applicable laws and regulations for us to make them either. concerning bribery, corruption, fraud, and any other prohibited business practices. • Any gifts or hospitality or promotional expenditure we receive or give in connection with our business should always be proportionate and reasonable in Measurement of terms of value and frequency. Gifts and hospitality should never be offered or accepted if it may be perceived as improperly influencing a business decision about or by us or impair independence or judgment about us. • We do not make political contributions either directly or indirectly to political parties, causes or individuals • We are committed to ensure that those who act on our behalf as Outcomes representatives, agents, consultants and other providers of services do not • ALL suppliers entering into a contract with Dhiraagu signed the Supplier Code of bribe on our behalf. Conduct. Take on tomorrow
