2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY a CONTENTS 2017 Highlights 2 Sustainability Vision 6 Share the Benefits 12 President’s Letter 3 2017 Performance 8 Engage with Respect 14 About this Report 4 Manage our Impacts 10 2017 Performance Summary 17 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 1 2017 HIGHLIGHTS MANAGE OUR IMPACTS SHARE THE BENEFITS ENGAGE WITH RESPECT 4% Reduction in greenhouse gas $351 M Invested in local businesses 6 Barrick-operated sites run community emissions since 2016 in 2017 water monitoring programs 85% Reduction in reportable $1.12 B Taxes and royalties to governments 100% Of our sites with grievance environmental incidents since 2014 in 2017 mechanisms in place 40% 97% 3 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY Reduction in total reportable injury Of our people from the countries Independent human rights frequency rate since 2014 where we operate assessments completed in 2017 2 PRESIDENT’S LETTER At Barrick, our vision of being a sustainable 21st-century company is clear: took immediate action to reduce the risk of such an incident happening again. to partner with host governments and communities to transform their Together with Shandong, our new joint-venture partner at Veladero, we are natural resources into sustainable benefits and mutual prosperity. committed to improving our operational performance and regaining the trust and confidence of our community and government partners. In 2017, we continued to implement and make important progress on our sustainability strategy, which this report outlines in further detail. We are guided by a Our commitment to sustainability in 2018 is as strong as ever, and motivates us to belief that we can best achieve our sustainability goals by: managing our impacts challenge the notion that mining is just an extractive industry. We see it entirely on people and the environment; sharing the benefits of our activities; and engagdifferently: as a mining company, we can create real and sustained value, but only ing respectfully with others. by working in a transparent and collaborative way with our own people, as well as our government and community partners. When we get this right, everyone To that end, in the past year, we developed a climate change strategy and set stands to benefit and advance together. greenhouse gas emission reduction targets; we established a range of strategic partnerships, from an operational partnership with Shandong Gold Group in This Sustainability Report Summary is intended to give you highlights of the Argentina to a digital learning partnership with Cisco in Nevada and Peru; and progress we made in 2017 and what we aim to achieve in 2018 and beyond. We we advanced our digital transformation, introducing applications that are helping encourage you to also visit our website where we report in depth on these and improve safety and our ability to manage environmental impacts at our mines. other topics. If you have questions or comments, we invite you to share them with us at responsiblemining@barrick.com. We also faced our share of challenges in 2017. While we achieved our lowest total reportable injury frequency rate in the company’s history, this was marred by the tragic deaths of our colleagues Eulogio Gutierrez and Williams Garrido. Our expectation is for every person to go home safe and healthy every day. That we did not meet this goal is unacceptable. We also experienced another incident – our third in eighteen months – involving Kelvin Dushnisky process solution on the heap leach pad at the Veladero mine in Argentina. We President 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our 2017 Sustainability Report Summary Report Parameters in which we summarize Barrick’s Sustainability Strategy and the Company’s performance in The information in this summary report covers managing its most important sustainabilitythe 2017 calendar year, which corresponds to related issues in the past year. Barrick’s complete Barrick’s financial year. All information in this Sustainability Report is an online report found report is current as of December 31, 2017, at www.barrick.com/sustainability. We report in unless otherwise indicated. This report includes accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. information on all of Barrick’s wholly owned operations and joint ventures where we are We recognize that many of our stakeholders the operator. We report on 100 percent of the have different priorities. We produce subjectdata and significant issues from our operations specific reports on our performance on issues and joint-venture operations where we are the that have been identified to be of concern. In operator. Barrick totals only include sites where 2017, we produced our inaugural Economic we are the operators, unless otherwise indicatContributions Report and Human Rights Report. ed. Data on joint ventures in which we have In 2018, we intend to update these documents 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY an interest (but do not operate), including the as well as producing our first ever Climate Veladero, Porgera, and Jabal Sayid mines and Change Report and Water Report. Donlin project, are available on our website. Currency amounts in this report are expressed in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated. 4 BARRICK AT A GLANCE $2+ B 5.32 MOZ 11 COUNTRIES 10,000+ 13,000+ Operating Cash Flow Gold production at CoS1 $794/oz with operating mines People Contractors in 2017 and AISC $750 / oz 2 and projects directly employed Working with our Donlin Gold Hemlo Toronto Jabal Sayid JV (50%) JV Partners JV* (50%) Barrick holds interests in a number of companies and joint ventures (JVs) that we do not operate. As part of our commitment to partnership, we believe in Golden Sunlight working with our JV partners and Turquoise Ridge affiliates to foster, support, and JV (75%) encourage sustainable business Pueblo Viejo JV (60%) practices. While our programs Barrick Nevada Porgera and policies do not always extend JV (47.5%) to those sites and operations North Mara we do not operate, we seek to 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY Buzwagi Buyanhulu influence management action, Lagunas Norte for example, through contractual Veladero JV (50%) rights and Board membership. Zaldivar JV (50%) Lumwana That may mean conducting or KCGM JV (50%) Norte Abierto JV* (50%) advocating for audits and assessments, pressing for compensation Pascua Lama* structures to reflect our priorities, seeking reports on incidents, engaging over aspects of their Head Office Barrick Operated JVs not operated by Barrick Partner Operated JVs Affiliate human rights programs, seeking 1 All-in Sustaining Costs. These are non-GAAP financial performance measures with no standardized meaning under IFRS. regular progress reports, and 2 CoS reflects Cost of Sales applicable to gold/oz * Projects asking for details on training and stakeholder engagements. 5 SUSTAINABILITY VISION We partner with host governments and communities to transform their natural resources into sustainable benefits and mutual prosperity. We aim to be a welcome and trusted partner of host governments and communities, the most sought-after employer, and the natural choice for long-term investors. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 6 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Strategy in Action Our sustainability vision and strategy are At Barrick, we aim to be the leading mining company focused on gold, brought to life through Barrick's unique partnership model, which is in place in every growing our free cash flow per share from a portfolio of high-quality assets country where we operate. through disciplined capital allocation and operational excellence. Maintaining our license to operate is the joint Sustainability is at the heart of this. Gaining the trust and confidence of communities and governments responsibility of mine General Managers (GMs) is the best way we can de-risk a project, keep our operations running smoothly, and protect our ability and country Executive Directors (EDs). This unique to grow the business. We do this in three ways: ED/GM management structure reflects our belief that mining relies as much on our ability to build MANAGE OUR IMPACTS The safety of people and protecting the environment  and sustain positive relationships with communiare always our top priorities. While mining inevitably will have some environmental ties and governments as it does on our technical impacts, our partners rightly expect us to manage and mitigate these according to know-how. Collaboration and communication are international standards and stakeholder expectations. essential in this ED/GM partnership. Our GMs and EDs share and are compensated SHARE THE BENEFITS Host government and communities expect and deserve to according to the same objectives, which include benefit from the extraction of their resources. We do this through local hiring and both operational and sustainability criteria. In fact, all of our people have a portion of their annual 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY contracting, investing in community priorities, and paying our fair share of taxes. incentive compensation tied to Barrick's sustainability performance. In 2017, 15 percent of this ENGAGE WITH RESPECT We must treat people with dignity and respect their  compensation was driven by the Company's perhuman rights. This means listening and responding to concerns, providing remedy if formance on safety, environment, anti-corruption, we do something wrong, and involving people in the decisions that will affect them. human rights, and community relations. Doing so helps bring sustainability to the forefront of our By acting on these priorities, we build the trust of our partners and maintain our license to operate day-to-day decision-making. throughout the life of a mine. 7 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 8 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 9 2017 PERFORMANCE MANAGE OUR IMPACTS  O ur top priorities are keeping people safe and protecting the environment everywhere we operate, from exploration through mine closure and beyond.  – Nancy Lockhart, Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors Workplace Safety Environmental Incidents We work to minimize the environmental impacts our operations may 0.64 have, and where they do occur, we put in place appropriate remedia0.58 tion and reclamation measures. 0.46 0.40 We investigate all reportReportable Environmental Incidents 0.35 able environmental inci0.32 dents (REIs2) and revise our 85% Incident at Veladero practices to learn from the 53 Target past. In doing so, we have Despite our progress in reducing REIs, been able to drive down REDUCTION IN in March 2017, the monitoring system 4 1 3 1 2 the number of REIs that 36 REIs SINCE 2014 at the Veladero mine detected a rupture 13 14 15 16 17 18 occur on an annual basis 29 of a pipe carrying gold-bearing pro2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY  TRIFR1  Fatalities from 53 in 2014 to 8 in cess solution on the mine's leach pad. 2017 – an 85% reduction. Our safety vision is “Every person going Although the solution was contained Our goal in 2018 is a fur13 within the operating site and no solution home safe and healthy every day.” In ther 50 percent reduction 2017, we did not live up to this commit8 reached any diversion channels or waterin REIs from 2017, with our 4 ment. Barrick experienced two fatalities Target courses, it was the third cyanide-related ultimate objective not to and we missed our ambitious target, 13 14 15 16 17 18 incident in the past three years at this have any such incidents. although our TRIFR was the lowest in site. Corrective actions, as agreed with the company's history. San Juan provincial authorities, were 1 Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) is the total number of fatalities, lost-time taken to reduce the risk of this happeninjuries, and injuries requiring medical treatment per 200,000 hours worked. ing again. 2 A Reportable Environmental Incident (REI) is defined as an incident that has a high ranking on Barrick's REI Severity Index and usually requires immediate government agency reporting. Most REIs had minor to zero long-term impacts on environment. 10 TARGET OF Climate Change 30% REDUCTION IN Water GHG BY 2030 Mining is a water-intensive industry. Our activities, if not properly managed, In 2017, we developed a climate have the potential to negatively impact the quality and availability of water change strategy aligned with our for other users. overall business strategy to grow free cash flow per share through safe Greenhouse Gas Emissions At the core of our water management strategy is our commitment to use and responsible mining. It has three only what we need and to reduce our impact on other water users in the pillars: understand and mitigate the countries and communities with whom we partner. 372,500 3,327,500 3,372,600 3,461,000 3,322,000 risks associated with climate change; reduce our impacts on climate Water Withdrawals change; and improve our disclosure 2,420,000 427,600 565,000 101,960 on climate change. 569,000 95,600 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY Barrick has set a goal to keep our 75,470 2,955,000 2,945,000 2,896,000 2,753,000 current GHG emissions flat in the short-term and is targeting a 30% 39,600 reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 0.65 43,780 from our 2016 baseline of 3.5 MT 0.49 0.47 0.48 CO2e emitted. Target 0.38 IN 2017, 14 15 16 17 30 13 14 15 16 17 77% OF WATER USED AT OUR OPERATIONS  Scope 1 (T CO2e)  Total Water Withdrawal (ML) WAS RECYCLED  Scope 2 (T CO2e) Water Use (ML) / tonne ore processed Total 11 SHARE THE BENEFITS  Communities and host governments rightly expect to share in mining’s benefits. When we live up to their expectations, we are partners with host governments and communities in their own development, contributing to a more stable and prosperous society and a more secure license to operate.  – Peter Sinclair, Chief Sustainability Officer Social & Economic Development We contribute in a number of ways to the development of Barrick sites work to develop the capacity of local suppliers the communities and countries where we operate, including to help them improve their access to mine contracts and through buying and hiring locally, helping diversify livelisupplier opportunities. We are also committed to hiring hoods, and paying our fair share of taxes. locally. Many of our sites have explicit targets for local employment and have developed plans to increase local employment efforts over the life of the mine. Local Procurement (In Billions of U.S. Dollars) 12 EVEN AS WE HAVE DIVESTED ASSETS AND Local Employment 10 SPENT LESS, WE HAVE Foreign Nationals 16% MAINTAINED OUR 44% National 3% 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 8 COMMITMENT TO LOCAL PROCUREMENT 27% 6 BARRICK’S EFFECTIVE 16% 60% CORPORATE INCOME 4 18% Regional TAX RATE IN 2017 21% 64% 15% 19% 65% 16% 55% 9% 57% 2 The taxes and royalties we pay can 24% 29% 25% Local be a significant source of revenue, 0 60% helping governments build important 13 14 15 16 17 infrastructure, fund social programs,  Local / Regional Purchases and ultimately help drive their economic  National Purchases growth and social development.  International Purchases 12 Economic Contributions Spotlight on Partnership Digital Learning with Cisco in Nevada $5.1B INVESTMENTS IN THE Community Investment COUNTRIES WHERE $23,410,000 To revolutionize mining through digital inteWE OPERATE IN 2017 gration and prepare the workforce of the fuOther Payments ture, Barrick, Cisco, and Great Basin College $77,370,000 (GBC) have partnered to bring digital and information technology skills development Local Purchases courses, free of charge, to groups in the $351,300,000 National Purchases local community in Northern Nevada. $2,135,280,000 This unique partnership will benefit Barrick people and their families, veterans of the Payments to our People 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY U.S. Armed Forces, members of the Western $1,160,570,000 Shoshone tribe, and others in Barrick’s rural Taxes and International Purchases host communities in Northern Nevada. Government Royalties $530,150,000 $1,118,500,000 Barrick’s investment of nearly $400,000 over Regional Purchases three years covers hardware, software, in$282,130,000 structor training, instructor salary and course fees. We plan to expand the U.S. program to every community where Barrick operates, with similar partnerships now underway near operations in Argentina and Peru. 13 ENGAGE WITH RESPECT  H aving the support and confidence of our host communities and governments – a license to operate – is essential. We can't operate without it. For this reason, good relations with local communities are as important to us as any other part of our operations. We treat others like we would expect to be treated, and involve people in the decisions that will affect them.  – Rodolfo Najar, General Manager, Lagunas Norte Mine Human Rights Spotlight on Innovation We will not tolerate violations of human rights committed by includes training, onboarding and oversight of our people and Real-Time Online Water Monitoring employees, affiliates, or any third parties acting on our behalf or third parties, operational due diligence, grievance mechaThrough the use of technology and related to any aspect of a Barrick operation. nisms and remediation approaches, independent assessments digital systems, Barrick is transforming and other components. We have not contributed to any In 2011, Barrick launched a global Human Rights Compliance how it manages its impacts on the ensevere negative human rights impacts as referenced in the UN program to help us meet this commitment. The program vironment. The Company is focused on Guiding Principles since putting the program in place. leveraging digital solutions to increase Barrick's Human Rights Compliance Program the availability of our environmental performance in real-time. Our aim is Core Principles Salient Risks to prevent, eliminate, or reduce enviGrounded In Security ronmental risk; integrate and optimize Global Standards processes; and increase transparency of 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY Water our environmental performance. Leadership MONITORING POLICIES AND Management from the Top AND REPORTING PROCEDURES As part of this initiative, Barrick’s PascuaSafety & Lama project began publishing real-time Health water monitoring data from one of the Embedded DISCIPLINARY GOVERNANCE Throughout the ACTION AND AND project’s water monitoring stations in Organization REMEDY OVERSIGHT NonChile’s Estrecho River, downstream from Discrimination the project. Shared TRAINING AND DUE Learning ADVICE DILIGENCE Working Conditions Partnership and Responsible Collaboration Resettlement 14 Community Relations Communities expect and deserve the opportunity to have a voice in decisions that affect them. This means providing meaningful and timely information about our operations, and access to Company officials who will listen Every Barrick-operated mine site has targeted to and act on community concerns. 70% support from local achieving at least Grievance mechanisms are another important way that communities can communicate their concerns with the Company. All communities where we communities in 2018, as measured by operate have access to a culturally sensitive process by which to seek resoluindependent community perception surveys. tion to legitimate concerns. HOW WE ENGAGE WITH COMMUNITIES Grievances Received The Pueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican Republic hostSITE VISITS 2016 2017 ed more than 50 site visits in 2017, bringing nearly a thousand 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 33 Other people from local communities to see the mine. 2 Noise/Light/Vibrations Other 20 1 Dust/Emissions FACE-TO-FACE MEETINGS Our community relations team in Chile Noise/Light/Vibrations 3 9 Water held more than 700 face-to-face meetings with people in comDust/Emissions 4 10 Local Procurement munities near the Pascua-Lama project in 2017. Water 14 43 Local Employment Local Procurement 13 PARTICIPATORY WATER MONITORING At our operations in Peru and Local Employment 25 the Dominican Republic, we partner with local community Contractor Issues 104 110 Contractor Issues members to collaboratively monitor water quality. COMMUNITY SURVEYS In 2017, Barrick began conducting commuProperty Damage 16 41 Property Damage nity perception studies at all sites operated by us to measure our Land 8 10 Land support. In 2018, we will enhance this research with independent surveys conducted biannually at all Barrick-operated sites. Total 207 259 Total 15 2017 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY MANAGE OUR IMPACTS SHARE THE BENEFITS 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY ENGAGE WITH RESPECT 16 ISSUE 2017 PRIORITIES 2017 PROGRESS 2018 PRIORITIES 0 Fatalities  2 Fatalities No Fatalities Workplace Safety 0.32 Total Reportable Injury Frequency  TRIFR of 0.35, which represented a 12.5% reduc0.32 Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate Rate tion from 2016 and Barrick's safest year on record Zero severe environmental incidents*  The process solution incident at Veladero, although Zero severe environmental incidents* contained within the operating site, was the third cyanide-related incident in the past three years at Environmental this site Incidents 11 Reportable Environmental Incidents  8 Reportable Environmental Incidents 4 Reportable Environmental Incidents Achieve Environmental Improvement Plans  Achieved Complete Safety, Health and Environmental at all Sites Improvement Plans at all Sites. Launch our water management frame Achieved Water is not a limitation in our Life of Mine Water work and de-risk our operations with plans or our ability to meet our production Management respect to our major water-related risks targets Set targets around climate change in  Climate targets set. Company achieved 4% annual Work towards 30% reduction in GHG by Climate 2017 reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared 2030 as compared to 2016 baseline Change to 2016 General commitment to prioritize local  60% of our people come from local communities Continue to prioritize local employment Social and employment Economic General commitment to prioritize local Continue to prioritize local procurement  $351M of spend from local communities Development procurement 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY Not to cause, contribute to, or be directly  We have not contributed to any severe negative Not to cause, contribute to, or be directly linked to any severe human rights incihuman rights impacts as referenced in the UN linked to any severe human rights incidents dents at any mine we operate Guiding Principles since putting in place our huat any mine we operate Human man rights program Rights Continue to implement our human rights  In 2017, there were Human Rights assessments Continue to implement our human rights assessment program and include an encompleted at the Barrick-operated Pueblo Viejo assessment program hanced assessment of trafficking mine and at the Jabal Sayid and Porgera mines in which Barrick has an interest Zero severe incidents involving local com Some Barrick sites experienced minor communiZero severe incidents involving local munities at the sites Barrick operates ty-related incidents in 2017, such as road blockades communities at the sites Barrick operates Community and protests Relations Conduct at least two stakeholder percep Majority of sites only conducted one survey Conduct two scientifically valid stakeholder tion surveys at 90% of our sites perception surveys at each site * Includes incidents involving water and tailings or heap leach facilities 17 www.barrick.com CAUTIONARY / FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT Certain information contained or incorporated by reference in this document, including any information as to our sustainability strategy and vision, projects, plans, or future financial or operating performance, constitutes “forward-looking statements”. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. The words “vision”, “believe”, “expect”, “target”, “plan”, “objective”, “aim”, “intend”, “goal”, “continue”, “potential”, “may”, “will”, “can”, “should”, “could”, “would”, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In particular, this presentation contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, with respect to (i) Barrick’s sustainability strategy and vision; (ii) Barrick’s environmental, health and safety, corporate social responsibility (including social and economic development, water management and community relations) and human rights programs, policies and performance; (iii) Barrick’s climate change strategy and greenhouse gas emission targets; (iv) joint ventures and partnerships; and (v) the estimated timing to achieve environmental, social and energy reduction targets. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by the Company as at the date of this presentation in light of management’s experience and perception of current conditions and expected developments, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. Known and unknown factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements and information. Such factors include, but are not limited to: damage to the Company’s reputation due to the actual or perceived occurrence of any number of events, including negative publicity with respect to the Company’s handling of environmental matters or dealings with community groups, whether true or not; changes in national and local government legislation, taxation, controls or regulations, and/or changes in the administration of laws, policies, and practices, expropriation or nationalization of property and political or economic developments in Canada, the United States, and other jurisdictions in which the Company does or may carry on business in the future; risk of loss due to acts of war, terrorism, sabotage and civil disturbances; litigation and legal and administrative proceedings; contests over title to properties, particularly title to undeveloped properties, or over access to water, power and other required infrastructure; the risk that previously announced transactions may not close when planned or at all, or on the terms and conditions originally agreed; risks associated with working with partners in jointly controlled assets; employee relations; increased costs and risks related to the potential impact of climate change; fluctuations in the spot and forward price of gold, copper, or certain other commodities (such as silver, diesel fuel, natural gas, and electricity); the speculative nature of mineral exploration and development; changes in mineral production performance, exploitation, and exploration successes; risks associated with the implementation of Barrick’s digital transformation initiative, and the ability of the projects Barrick Gold Corporation under this initiative to meet the Company’s capital allocation and other objectives; diminishing quantities or grades of reserves; increased costs, delays, suspensions, and technical challenges associated with the construction of capital projects; operating or technical difficulties in conHead Office: nection with mining or development activities, including geotechnical challenges, and disruptions in the maintenance or provision of required infrastructure and information technology systems; failure to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; timing Brookfield Place of receipt of, or failure to comply with, necessary permits and approvals. In addition, there are risks and hazards associated with the business TD Canada Trust Tower 161 Bay Street of mineral exploration, development and mining, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected formations, pressures, cave-ins, flooding and gold bullion, copper cathode or gold or copper concentrate losses (and the risk of inadequate insurance, or Suite 3700 inability to obtain insurance, to cover these risks). P.O. Box 212 Many of these uncertainties and contingencies can affect our actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those Toronto, Canada M5J 2S1 expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, us. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. All of the forward-looking statements made in this presentation are qualified by these cautionary Tel: 416 861-9911 statements. Specific reference is made to the most recent Form 40-F/Annual Information Form on file with the SEC and Canadian provincial securities regulatory authorities for a more detailed discussion of some of the factors underlying forwardlooking statements and the risks that Toll-free throughout North America: 1 800 720-7415 may affect Barrick’s ability to achieve the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation. Fax: 416 861 2492 Barrick Gold Corporation disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new Email: responsiblemining@barrick.com information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Connect with Us
