G R O U P COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INDEX Welcome Message from Anthony J. Archer .............................................................. 3 Our Company ................................................................... 4 The Neem Tree .................................................................. 6 Communication on Progress 2018 .................................. 11 • Human Rights Principles .......................................... 14 • Labor Principles ....................................................... 18 • Environment Principles ............................................. 20 Anti Corruption Principles .............................................. 32 A Final Word .................................................................... 35 Contact ........................................................................... 36 WELCOME MESSAGE FROM ANTHONY J. ARCHER Primal Group celebrates one more year as a member of the United Nations Global Compact and reaffirms its commitment to the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. The following report comprises all the actions and endeavors that Primal Group has undertaken over the course of the past year in order to adhere to these principles. “Doing Good for the World, by Doing Good Business” Our philosophy comprises not only the economics of farm management but incorporates social and environmental impacts so that we ensure positive externalities across all our spheres of influence. We adhere to a synergy of People, Planet and Profit that guides every aspect of our business. Through these three factors, we are able to ensure that our practices have a positive impact on society and the environment, while also securing safe returns for our stakeholders. The current state of global affairs makes the Sustainable Development Goals more important than ever. Primal Group believes it is key to take these principles as guiding lights, rather than simple guidelines, and contribute to a more socially responsible business world, that will in turn usher a new era in our human evolution: A synergy with our environment in which profits and sustainability are no longer considered different concepts. We made remarkable progress in 2018 and plan to continue fueling our momentum by maintaining full commitment to the UN Global Compact and continuously integrating its principles into our daily actions and future strategies. Sincerely, Anthony J. Archer Chief Executive Officer Primal Group 3 OUR COMPANY The Primal Group of Companies is dedicated G R O U P to establishing itself as a lead organization, driving change to create a more tenable future G R O U P for our planet by ensuring environmental protection, social responsibility and valuecreation, for generations to come. Consisting of a variety of companies, Primal Group’s mission is to create a world that utilizes futuristic knowledge, technology and advancements, to create a sustainable reality through business models that protect and nurture the environment, while creating value and profits. HEX: 005c5d PANTONE 7721c Impact investment specialists in evolving a sustainable future, Primal is dedicated to providing solutions that G R O U P ensure lower risk and higher returns over traditional asset classes. We engage in high impact investment projects that HEX: 005c5d PANTONE 7721c offer sustainable solutions to the world’s most significant challenges, selected through our Primal criteria spanning environmental, social and economic impact. Safe, regenerative and transparent practices are at the very core of Primal’s operations, with each and every element of Primal’s production process prioritizing environmental care, be it while planting trees or while manufacturing products with recyclable and biodegradable packaging. HEX: 005c5d PANTONE 7721c OUR COMPANY 4 OUR VISION Ensuring a sustainable food supply has been mankind’s most significant challenge throughout history, one that has been compounded by the unprecedented increase in the global population over the last century. Conventional agricultural techniques, which arose from the necessity to increase agricultural yields, have come at a high cost for humanity, with the excessive use of chemical agricultural inputs contributing to human health risks, environmental degradation and resource depletion. The archaic system of the current industry needs to be transformed into one that guarantees the needs of all are met in a safe and sustainable way. At Primal, we believe the neem tree, as a crop care solution that delivers effective protection and high yields without harming the environment or human health, has the power to transform the future of agriculture and food production. This unique resource offers natural and innovative solutions where they are needed the most – across agriculture, healthcare, and environmental protection. OUR STRATEGY Operating the world’s largest commercial neem plantation in Ceara, Brazil, has turned us into a global leader in sustainable agriculture. Currently, we are on our way to becoming the world’s first fully vertically integrated neem business. Through regenerative and organic practices, assisted by the latest technology, we are ushering a new era for agriculture; one that guarantees higher yields by nurturing the soil and the surrounding ecosystems. This year our agricultural project has been joined by our natural, neem-based beauty and personal care brand, ViTA. Using the world’s first and currently only 100% OceanBound recycled bottles, made from plastic found in high-risk coastal areas where plastic waste is most likely to pollute the ocean, ViTA is playing a lead role in keeping the oceans plastic-free. At the intersection of sustainability and technology, we are constantly on the lookout for new business models that can satisfy the most fundamental requirements for life and secure a safe and prosperous future for us all be it in the agriculture or the beauty industry, we believe the only way forward is through social and environmental responsibility. OUR COMPANY 5 N NEEM THE UNITED NATIONS’ TREE OF THE 21ST CENTURY NEEM THE UNITED NATIONS’ TREE OF THE 21ST CENTURY 7 The neem tree (Azadirachta Indica) is a fast-growing species, which grows about 2.6 feet (80cm) every year and can reach up to 100 feet (30 meters) when fully grown. The scientific interest in the tree started in the 1950s, much of it centered on the oil from the fruit. One of its main active ingredients from the more than 250 compounds is azadirachtin, which has a complex chemical structure that provides much of neem’s potency and unique anti-bacterial, antiviral, and anti-fungal properties. For centuries, the neem tree has been known as “The Village Pharmacy” in India, providing hundreds of uses that have ranged from treating diseases to feeding cattle. Today, the tree is being studied for its multiple uses and applications across agriculture, beauty and personal care, healthcare, and environmental protection. The neem tree truly is an agro-scientific celebrity and it is not without reason that it has been declared the “Tree of the 21st Century” by the United Nations. NEEM THE UNITED NATIONS’ TREE OF THE 21ST CENTURY 8 As the largest commercial neem plantation globally, we are developing agricultural best practices through knowledge and research when it comes to optimal nutrition and management for our neem trees. Agriculture Environment Neem offers a diverse range of applications across the In the age of climate change, planting more trees worldwide agricultural sector. Natural and effective, it is an organic is a practical way to cleanse our environment through longalternative for synthetic pesticides that is effective against term carbon entrapment. For those examining the benefits over 600 species of pests. Biodegradable and non-toxic to of planting trees, neem trees tick many of the boxes for its mammals and beneficial pollinators, azadirachtin, disrupts suitability. the growth cycle of insects and deters them from feeding on plants. A hardy, drought resistant tree, with a thick foliage, very high leaf surface area and wide canopy, neem has the capability Doubling as a fertilizer, neem even nourishes the soil by to provide a shield against other pollution components, with a improving water retention and increasing its nitrogen, sequestration capacity of 12.27 tons per tree per year. With phosphorous, potassium, calcium, and magnesium content. its extensive and deep root system, neem can flourish and Neem oil is also an extremely effective, natural fungicide grow even in poor and leached soils. that disrupts cells and interferes with metabolic processes, without posing harm to humans or the environment. As a very promising solution to the overuse of antibiotics in agriculture, neem’s antimicrobial properties eradicate microbes and bacteria that cause infections and disease in livestock, At Primal, we have chosen to harness without creating resistance. the power of the neem tree, which we believe will become a key crop in the Health future, offering innovation, multi-industry With over 200 compounds proven to be effective against demand and a viable and sustainable cancer, malaria, diabetes, inflammation, infection, fever, solution to the global food crisis. influenza, skin disease and dental illness, neem is a solution to a variety of ailments. Over the past twenty years, major institutions have published several thousand papers exploring the plant’s effectiveness as a natural medicine. NEEM THE UNITED NATIONS’ TREE OF THE 21ST CENTURY 9 The Life of Neem Named ‘Arista’ in Sanskrit meaning ‘perfect, complete and imperishable’ Flowers The flowers are Leaves the part of the tree Containing most with fewer uses, active ingredients however, given the found in the seeds flowers’ sweet, honeybut in a much lower like smell, the flowers are concentration, the leaves used in aromatherapy are considered the most for a calming and versatile part of the tree. Now used as a pesticide, fertilizer Twigs and animal feed, the leaves Whilst used were originally used as in commercial a medicinal tea in toothpastes and Indonesia mouthwashes, twigs have most widely been used as brushes for generations in Oil India Extracted from the kernels inside the seeds, Fruit where a single seed may contain up to 50% oil by weight, the oil is recognized and valued as a safe and Seed farming. The oil has also been widely Bark studied due to its medicinal Kernel Neem bark contains properties and is also used spermicidal properties in a variety of cosmetic and research is undergoing products such as to approve its potential creams, soaps and use as a sexual shampoos contraceptive for both women and men Cake After the seeds have been pressed for oil, the Roots resulting by-product is the neem cake. Neem cake is The roots of a neem used across the agriculture medicinal properties due pesticide, fertilizer and to being antiseptic, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal antibacterial, anti fungal organic alternative to and germicidal. They antibiotics in livestock are also used as a pesticide and to control fleas and ticks on pets Neem-based organic All parts of the neem tree can be used Containing a high level against 600 insect species. for the treatment of antioxidants, neem is As a fertilizer, neem also of inflammation, used in organic soaps, reduces soil alkalinity and infection, fever and shampoos and hydrating ensures optimum fertility skin diseases creams Pesticide Medicine Cosmetics Neem is used as an organic Neem improves the Derived from the and nutritional supplement nutritional value of the mahogany family, soil while protecting Neem is an extremely internal nematodes plant roots from pests durable wood ideal as a and diseases construction material Cattle feed Fertilizer Timber NEEM THE UNITED NATIONS’ TREE OF THE 21ST CENTURY 10 C COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 12 United States of America In the last year, Primal Group has evolved in all aspects, with our mission to revolutionize the business world continuing 360,000 to be our guiding light. We continuously Mexico look towards the articles of the Global Compact as the core of our mission Neem trees to provide the world with solutions rather than merely being Brazil another company focused on the bottom line. were planted We have always worked and continue to work towards a more socially responsible planet, and we know this starts with our company, by implementing social responsibility and sustainability into all of our practices across our global Our current operations Nationalities working presence. comprise management of over This strategyfor Primal is directly tied toGroup our commitment to the Global Compact since 2015. Through both our words and 1,200 hectares our actions, we are committed to becoming a force for change and a clear example that sustainability and profits (c. 3,000 acres) are an attainable reality that will define the business world of the future. of agricultural land using only natural, sustainable and regenerative crop care solutions. Geographic presence United States of America 360,000 Mexico Neem trees Brazil were planted Our current operations Nationalities working comprise management of over for Primal Group 1,200 hectares (c. 3,000 acres) of agricultural land using only natural, sustainable and regenerative crop care solutions. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 13 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Businesses should support and • Article 2: Everyone is entitled to the same respect the protection of internahuman rights without discrimination of any tionally proclaimed human rights. kind. • Article 18: Everyone has the human right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Article 19: Everyone has the human right to freedom of opinion and expression. • Article 20: Everyone has the human right to peaceful assembly and association. Businesses should uphold the • Article 22: Everyone has the human Primal Group believes freedom of in corporate and association responsibility socialthe right to social security and to the realization as the basis for ensuring human rights and effective recognition of the right toneeds. We are committed to protecting and assuring every human right as of the economic, social and cultural rights collective bargaining. essential to all members of the communities we engage. indispensable for dignity. During the last year, Primal Group has maintained a commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Principles • Article 23: Everyone has the human right to related to human rights and the Universal Declaration of work, to just conditions of work, to protection Human RightsThevia elimination policies and all forms of practices thatofreinforce the forced and compulsory labor. against unemployment, to equal pay for equal compliance and defense of every fundamental human right. The practices established over the course of the last 12 work, to sufficient pay to ensure a dignified months are especially related to the following primary human existence for one’s self and one’s family, and rights: the human right to join a trade union. The effective abolition of child • Article 24: Everyone has the human right labor. to rest and leisure. • Article 25: Everyone has the human right to a standard of living adequate for health and The elimination of discrimination well-being, including food, clothing, housing, in respect of employment and medical care and necessary social services. occupation. • Article 29: Everyone has duties to the community. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 14 These articles represent the core of our philosophy of • Responsible and transparent activities across all levels respecting and protecting the rights of all people. At Primal, of our business operations, demonstrating respect and we strive to not only provide our employees with a job but support for all employees and business partners. create a relationship which allows them to enjoy a safe environment where they can thrive. • Educational sessions for our employees on topics such as Gender Equality, Sexual Education and other topics The betterment of our employees is part of our mission as a related to fundamental human rights. company to transform current business models into symbiotic relations, where people obtain as much from the company as • Regular monitoring and reporting on our progress they give and in turn put back into the land as much as they in upholding Human Rights across all parts of the take. business, using the Communication on Progress report as our principle communication strategy for reporting Primal Group has maintained its commitment to Human on our constant work for human rights. Rights via the development of initiatives that have created the following policies: • Engagement with local communities involving outreach, educational programs and voluntary initiatives that support human rights. With our Sustainable Future Initiative (SFI) we regularly provide produce to local schools and education on sustainable farming methods. We have provided schools with produce such as sweet potatoes, maracuja, papayas, apples and watermelon, among others. Our Mandala is part of our Sustainable Future Initiative Project, through which we are teaching an organic agricultural system through practical exercises, thereby increasing awareness of regenerative agriculture and the drastic impact of traditional methodologies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 15 Each cycle at the Mandala produces GHERKIN BELL PEPPERS SMALL PEPPERS PARSLEY CARROTS TOMATOES LETTUCE SUGAR BEATS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 16 By constantly providing our employees with training, we can ensure their safety and development, keeping them updated on the most innovative agricultural practices. Our employees come from all parts of Brazil, and have Due to our processes, protocol and culture, we have only different backgrounds, perspectives and beliefs. We make received one minor complaint this year. We have further sure that they have the liberty and space to practice their improved our communication with our employees through own beliefs and express their thoughts freely. our initiative Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (CIPA), which consists of our employees selecting three To safeguard our workers from issues such as workplace representatives and the subsequently our company selecting harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or three representatives to address topics our employees would psychological harassment, abuse or threats, we continue to like to discuss and define actions for improvement. These use a complaint mechanism based on a suggestion box at our meetings are supervised by a third party, in the form of a plantations and administrative offices to obtain complaints, security technician hired by the company. comments, and requests from our workers. Every complaint is submitted to a process of review and verification by the General Manager to assure we are fulfilling our duty to eliminate discrimination, harassment, and victimization at our company. During our monthly integrated sessions, employees are informed about their rights and given a safe space to express their thoughts and opinions. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 17 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR PRINCIPLES Primal Group safeguards and promotes basic rights for workers across our global presence. Our evergrowing work force and the positive reputation of our project in the local community are proof of the Businesses should uphold the success of our efforts. freedom of association and the Our employees are offered above minimum wage effective recognition of the right to remuneration and various opportunities to advance collective bargaining. and grow within the company, as we constantly provide them with performance reviews and guidance to ensure they can competently fulfill their roles. We are proud to offer additional benefits such as training, educational events and monthly sessions where we The elimination of all forms of increase awareness about environmental issues, forced and compulsory labor. social concerns, labor rights, and working policies. The following are a few examples of the subjects covered in 2018: The effective abolition of child • Our Company: Introduction to Our Company, labor. Internal Regulations of the Company and Performance Evaluation, Training in the Handling and Application of Natural Pesticides, Health and Safety at Work, Neem and its Properties The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and • The Environment: Ocean Pollution, Life Below occupation. Water (SDG 14), Sustainable Management of Recyclable Materials, Awareness for Use of Solid Waste, Zero Hunger and Sustainable Agriculture (SGG 2) • Human Rights: Sexual Education, Gender Equality Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 18 Rather than just providing our workers with employment, we give them access Our tractor drivers recently received lessons on the most efficient way to drive to a career in a project that is creating a new standard in organic agriculture. their tractors on our plantations, in order to ensure they conserve fuel and protect our trees and wildlife. In alignment with our labor principles we have further elaborated the ‘Fazenda Pack’, our training manual for all agricultural employees. As an informative training and development tool, this comprehensive document introduces We have built a mechanics workshop and educates principles of sustainable agriculture across to ensure regular maintenance our team in Brazil, including crop-specific management practices for both neem and coconut trees. of our tractors. Fabio Moreira de The Fazenda Pack is part of our mission to ensure a healthy, Sousa, our best tractor driver, was safe and positive work environment for all our employees chosen for the position of Head aligned with our commitment as part of the Global Compact. It ensures that we transmit our values to our workers and of Machinery and Mechanics and inform them that the activities in which they are involved go beyond employment they are an integral part of our future sent on a 3-week long preparation and share our vision with the local community. course. Primal encourages its suppliers both national and international to adhere to the same labor principles that guide our company. In this way we go beyond our company in order This is part of our commitment to become an influential force in worldwide labor practices. to help our employees grow and At Primal, we constantly strive to go beyond the traditional pursue promising careers within company-employee relationship, which consists of a simple exchange of services for pay. Instead, we inspire our our company. employees to help us disrupt current business models and take this message to all communities within reach in order to further influence change. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 19 occupation. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The Catinga Puffbird, which inhabits our plantation, is a species Encourage the development and endemic to Eastern Brazil. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Primal, our greatest challenge is to transform traditional agriculture into one that guarantees the nutritional needs of all are met in a safe, healthy and sustainable way. In order to achieve this objective, we continuously preserve and restore critical habitats, carefully manage our resource supply and naturally improve the condition of our soil and crops. Primal Group’s mission is to secure high yields in order to solve the global food crisis through organic, sustainable and innovative techniques. To enhance and promote greater environmental responsibility, we have implemented unique strategies, which improve our production processes and guarantee environmental protection. These efforts are focused on sustainable plantation techniques, renewable energy, waste and water management as well as wildlife restoration. Our young neem trees are surrounded by native vegetation in order to avoid monoculture and protect the trees from pests. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 20 Through regular nutrient application and analysis, we ensure optimal soil conditions for our trees. SUSTAINABLE PLANTATION TECHNIQUES Sustainability is about knowing the value that every ecosystem Precision Crop Care has. Every part of our process involves making sure that we balance the ecosystem through proper nutrition which is Throughout the year, we apply various strategies to key for the promotion of microorganisms. We achieve this significantly reduce the use of our organic pesticides through the use of innovative techniques and state of the art and fertilizers. Through chemical analysis of the soil, our technology: agronomists determine the pH levels, alongside the nutritional and physical composition of the soil. Intercropping The soil is then assessed for natural mineral requirements, Monocultures are one of the most damaging practices with gypsum and limestone added to reduce aluminum levels in conventional agriculture. The absolute lack of any and enhance the soil’s physical qualities. Limestone helps other vegetation outside of the chosen crop creates an raise pH levels, reducing aluminum content and providing imbalance that deteriorates the soil and promotes largecalcium, while gypsum provides sulfur and conditions the scale pest infestation. We constantly implement and test new soil for better root growth. intercropping techniques in order to obtain the highest yields and the biggest benefits for our crops and the environment. This nutrient application is done several times a year across the plantation, to ensure the health of our soil by applying Low Till Land Clearing the exact amount of nutrients needed. To further ensure the use of natural inputs is kept to a minimum, we have recently As part of our regenerative and organic agricultural practices, purchased a mist applier, which uses less water or carrier we never uproot or completely clean an area. When an area is to apply insecticides, fungicides, disinfectants and even brush cut, we ensure that what is cut is left on the ground and fertilizers to crops. This low-volume machine reduces the surrounding environment, so that it can nurture the soil and amount of solution needed by creating droplets so small add nutrients to the environment as it naturally decomposes. that the surface area covered is significantly more than with alternative applications. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 21 Farm and Analytics Report The benefit of implementing such technology is the ability to scale up over time, while ensuring the plantation is managed Agrivi analytics allow dashboard views of all farming in the most sustainable way possible. Future additions activities, including but not limited to: input usage, man hours, of attachments like ground sensors and IoT devices that machinery hours, ROI, crop yield per sector and financial connect with our drones, will enable us to stay at the cutting oversights. This not only ensures visibility and identification edge of technology-integrated management. of high cost areas across the project, but also enables us to minimize our use of natural and organic inputs. Our agronomists work closely with national and state entities in order to develop the best crop care methodologies. We work AgTech alongside the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation EMBRAPA, in order to continually learn and improve our The implementation of drone technology has added a superior understanding and practices and achieve our joint goals. level of analysis across our projects, with the capacity to evaluate a variety of field metrics at a faster rate than ever before. Information and data are collated through our two high-tech drones and processed through Precision Mapper, industry leaders in map and data processing and analysis. Aerial and sensor analysis give a unique opportunity to scan and view areas as a whole, creating an understanding and visualization of the conditions of all areas of the project. Technology integration and data-driven agricultural management are integral parts of our strategy to implement the most efficient and sustainable farming strategies across our projects. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 22 Technology integration and data-driven agricultural management are integral Our agronomists have become adept at drone flight and analysis parts of our strategy to implement the most efficient and sustainable farming over the last year. strategies across our projects. The normal drone view provides a camera view of the trees and Drone technology allows us to proactively locate the areas that require allows for general inspection. additional agricultural organic inputs. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 23 Our eco-dam has a capacity of 7, 834,000 cubic meters. WATER MANAGEMENT RENEWABLE & CLEAN ENERGY We are constantly looking for the most efficient and Energy consumption to maintain an agricultural project as big environmentally safe methods to bring water to irrigate our as our own is something which we constantly work to improve plantations. This is achieved through the smart and efficient in a sustainable manner. Fossil fuel emissions are the biggest use of water and frequent monitoring of our infrastructure. contributors of CO2 and as a sustainable company, we are in a constant search for partners and technologies that will Eco-Dam eventually lead us towards our goal of utilizing 100% clean and renewable energy on our agricultural projects while Our dam has a capacity of 7,834,000 cubic meters, and an reducing demand for fossil fuel energy generation through area of 37 hectares. The average rainfall is 1160 mm per our Zero Carbon Footprint Plan. year, the maximum flow rate of the dam is 43.78 m³/s, the width of the spillway that has not yet been completed, will be We intend to remove our reliance on the Brazilian National 50 meters long. Grid for our energy needs, offering a sustainable way to fulfill our energy requirements necessary for running a large-scale Precision Irrigation System agricultural project through renewable sources. Our irrigation system allows us to determine and to use the specific quantities of water required without wasting water. We constantly monitor our irrigation lines in order to make sure that there are no leaks or damages. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 24 WASTE MANAGEMENT Plastic Challenge Primal Group looks to lead the way in waste management We tackle plastic waste on a daily basis by analyzing our through proper use, disposal and recycling, and by teaching needs and determining in which areas we can steer clear a culture of proper waste disposal to our employees and of using plastic products or reduce the number of plastic encouraging them to get involved in company recollection products used, for example by ordering products in bulk. programs. In addition, our personal care brand, ViTA, is a leader in sustainable packaging designed to divert plastic We continue to implement our PET DRIVE, which is a program waste from entering the world’s oceans. that encourages our employees to collect as many plastic bottles as possible. The employee who collects the most Waste Recycling plastic bottles is recognized and rewarded. We have been working with ECO+, a local company Plastic bottles are collected in order to find different uses for specialized in collection and recycling of wastes. This them across the plantation and prevent them from polluting company has been working to collect, transport and recycle land and sea. For example, we have designed traps our disposals in a sustainable way, with the goal, not only with plastic bottles to naturally control pests and reduce to preserve the local environment and ensure a clean area populations of insects across our plantations. for the right development of our trees, but to ensure that our waste does not become trash somewhere else. In 2018, we To ensure we are at the highest level of expertise in these have recollected 14 m³ of recyclable waste, which are being areas, we have sought local experts to guide us through laws, processed to convert them into new materials and objects. customs and cultural nuances. Our environmental consultant functions as a guide as well as an audit to keep us innovating and implementing sustainable practices. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 25 Together with our employees, their families and kids from local schools, we traveled to the beaches near our plantations and collected plastic and waste in order to send it to a recycling facility. BEACH CLEAN-UP This year’s PET Drive ended in our “Praia Limpia” (Beach As part of our commitment to drive change in the local Clean-Up) Initiative. Together with our employees, their community, our regular plastic collection efforts contribute to families and kids from local schools, we traveled to the relieving the weight of the tourist season on local beaches and beaches near our plantations and collected about 4 tons of encourage the community and tourists to keep the beaches plastic wich we sent to a recycling facility. clean. Through words and actions, our initiative is already permeating through the local community and demanding a At the beach the participants had the opportunity to experience broader scope. plastic pollution and its impacts first-hand when one of the kids found a turtle which had died due to a piece of plastic On a global scale, we are tackling plastic waste by wrapped around its body. This gave our team members the revolutionizing the beauty and personal care industry opportunity to educate employees, their families and kids in through our newly launched brand and its sustainably driven the crucial importance of reducing plastic waste. The day packaging. included a lunch provided by Primal for everybody involved in the clean-up efforts. Over the course of this year’s PET Drive initiative we were able to gather 14,000 PET bottles. The winner of this year’s initiative was our employee Antônio Carlos Carneiro, with a total of 6,457 pet bottles! For his efforts Antônio was rewarded with a new bicycle and other prizes were handed out to employees who collected large amounts of pet bottles. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 26 At the beach the participants had the opportunity to experience plastic Over the course of this year’s PET Drive initiative we were able to gather pollution and its impacts first-hand when one of the kids found a turtle which 14,000 PET bottles, amounting to about 4 tons of plastic. had died due to a piece of plastic wrapped around its body. As part of our commitment to drive change in the local community, our regular plastic collection efforts contribute to relieving the weight of the tourist season on local beaches and encourage the community and tourists to keep the beaches clean. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 27 ViTA This year, Primal Group launched its personal care brand, ViTA debuting in the market with a natural shampoo and conditioner. ViTA’s bottles are the world’s first and currently only bottles to be made entirely from 100% OceanBound recycled plastic. OceanBound plastic, sourced through our packaging partners Envision Plastics, is defined as plastic found in high-risk coastal areas where there is no formal collection system and plastic waste is most likely to enter and pollute the ocean. ViTA insists upon non-toxic ink and labels that separate from ViTA packaging so that they enter the recycling stream of mainstream recycling facilities, without the need for rarely available technology, which can lead to recyclable bottles ending up in landfills due to inseparable labels. Our shampoo and conditioner bottles earned the 2018 Sustainable Packaging Coalition’s (SPC) Innovator of the Year Award for Breakthrough Process. We are constantly looking for partners who share our philosophy for sustainability and the preservation of the environment through good business. ViTA is playing a lead role in helping its manufacturing partners, Envision Plastics, in their commitment to diverting 10 million pounds of plastic at-risk of polluting Planet Earth’s oceans over the next 2 years. Additionally, ViTA is certified toxin-free by the Environmental Working Group and cruelty-free by the Leaping Bunny Program. ViTA’s goal is to create the most advanced and optimal natural products on the market, setting the industry standards for the future. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 28 WILDLIFE Our bees continue to thrive, and our beehives are now productive. This season we were able to collect 1300kg of honey, and purchased the latest innovation in beehives (Flow Hive Classic Araucaria 7 Frame) which allows us to quite literally obtain honey from bees on tap, with frames that consist of partly formed honeycomb cells. The bees complete the comb with their wax and then fill the cells with honey. This device is safe for bees as it contains enough space for bees to move between the comb walls when honey is being tapped. Our specialist beekeepers are responsible for taking care of the nearly 40 hives we now have implemented across the plantation. Primal has joined an alliance of 48 honey producers from all across Ceara in order to gather the honey harvested from different farms in the region. Bees on our farm not only feed and pollinate our crops, they also pollinate native plants during the dry season, helping to promote biodiversity at our farm, and ensuring the best possible yields. Thanks to our organic practices, bees on our plantations Apart from increasing pollination at our plantation, our bees also demonstrate are kept safe from any chemical inputs and are living the viability of neem as a natural pesticide and fertilizer that functions proof that neem and neem-based products are harmless in harmony with beneficial insects. to pollinators and are essential for the success of our project. Our bee hives are designed to allow the workers to collect the honey with minimal negative effects on the insects. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 29 PROTECTED AREAS Sustainable farming guarantees the protection of wildlife. Primal’s practices and methods take into consideration native species that are situated in our plantation. Protected areas are essential to the maintenance of local ecosystems. 20% of all our land has been carefully selected to be left untouched and create the most efficient refuge for local flora and fauna. We have an area a little over 200 Ha preserved and protected from our own activities as well as from local poaching. Hunting, fishing, and woodcutting are strictly forbidden in this area. Keeping local vegetation benefits our trees, as well as local pollinators, small reptiles and birds that use the area for feed or cover. We maintain 15-30 meters of native vegetation around all our water sources so that animals can access them through safe passages that go beyond our land into neighboring lands. Recently, we have been awarded 100 native saplings by The Botanical State Park of Ceara, which will be planted around our plantation in order to further promote native species in the area. To protect wildlife, we have enforced a 40km/h speed limit on our plantation in order to avoid running over small reptiles and birds. Lookouts have been placed across the plantation to issue warnings to drivers and suppliers who exceed this limit. We were delighted to recently spot a pair of Burrowing Owls, a globally declining species, close to our on-site offices, the same seen last year and now with a new chick! We recently undertook a successful rescue mission for a baby yellow armadillo on our plantation, a threatened breed, and placed him in our legal reserve with the help of our environmental consultants. Our environmental protection policies are embedded into our philosophy and rule over everything we do. We are working to protect the natural environment at an individual, organizational and governmental level, through our partnerships with the community and its authorities. These practices are benefiting the environment, the local population and our company, as they create awareness of the environmental problems we face and the sustainable practices we execute in order to tackle them. Protecting, sustainable and regenerative measures are at the very core of our daily operations. Burrowing Owls are endangered in most of the American continent, including Brazil. Our plantation provides a shelter for this unique specie. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 30 Trainings are an integral part of making sure that we transmit our philosophy to our workers, to ensure that they know that what they are doing goes beyond labor, and to encourage them to share our vision with the local community. COMMUNICATION EFFORTS • Ocean Plastic Pollution We seek to have an active role in distributing information • Ocean Dead Zones Caused by and creating awareness about the environmental, social and Agricultural Run-Off political issues that plague our world. • The Importance of Bees and Pollinators for Through our weekly newsletters, social media channels and Global Food Production websites, we make a point of informing investors, prospects and interested readers about the urgent need for change, be • The Destruction of the Ozone Layer it within the agricultural industry, the beauty industry or the packaging industry. In the past years we have distributed • The 4th Industrial Revolution and the information on a variety of subjects advocating disruption in Future of Agriculture order to save the Planet: • Climate Change • Legislations that Favor Sustainable Business Practices • Sustainable Agriculture • Neem as Biofuel COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 31 A Anti-Corruption Principles Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Primal Group knows that corruption prevents communities from rising out of poverty, hampers competition and the enforcement of sustainable and environmentally sensible policies. This is the reason why we fight corruption in all areas and are committed towards practices that deter corruption in our company and the local communities we engage in. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 33 Our company prides itself on supporting the fundamental corporative Anti-Corruption Principles: 1 Operate to the highest standard of ethics and integrity. 2 Ensure best governance practices and the creation of an anti-corruption program. 3 Be accountable to stakeholders through transparency and public reporting. 4 Ensure human resources policies and procedures support the anti-corruption program. 5 Design the anti-corruption program based on thorough risk assessment. 6 Implement detailed policies and procedures to counter key corruption risks. We have implemented a system that ensures none of our employees or third-party consultants accept to meet with 7 Manage relationships with third parties to any government official or member of the Brazilian State ensure they perform accordingly to an Superintendence of the Environment (SEMACE), without anti-corruption standard. having received prior written approval from a member of Senior Management. All third-party consultants must always 8 Use communication and training to be accompanied by a member of our team when meeting embed the anti-corruption program in the with state, federal or government officials. company. Additionally, our suggestion box helps us keep track of complaints and allows for every employee to become a 9 Provide secure and accessible counseling whistle-blower and report inappropriate behaviour such as and whistleblowing channels. bribes and unsupervised meetings with government officials or union leaders. 10 Monitor, assess and continuously improve implementation of the anti-corruption An anti-corruption/ethics clause is established in every program. contract with our business partners, and we constantly give our employees in-depth insights into common corruption practices and ways to fight them. At Primal, we truly believe corruption is the enemy of sustainable businesses and of environmental progress in general and will continue to improve our practices in order to do our part to eradicate corruption and its impacts on economic growth. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 34 A FINAL WORD Primal Group is constantly looking to make progress as a sustainable and socially responsible company. In the last year we have made significant advances in our agricultural projects as further proof of our mission to make sustainability the new norm in commercial agriculture. Utilizing a visionary and futuristic mindset, Through responsible business we have implemented initiatives that have led to ripple effects in the communities we work in. With our education programs we have been able to promote sustainability in the region alongside other business owners. Our employees not only provide we are not just ‘playing the game’; we are labor, but rather a true belief in a sustainable future for our planet. Introducing additional brands that help promote sustainability and environmental responsibility will continue to be part of our mission to create a more sustainable future. changing it. We support other companies that share the principles of sustainability and social responsibility in order to form partnerships and alliances that could further contribute to a greener future and an overall more symbiotic relationship between business and planet. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 35 For more information or feedback about the content of this document, you can contact: NAME Paloma Escandón Matarazzo POSITION General Manager Brazil EMAIL pem@primordiales.com.mx info@primalgroup.com info@primordiales.com.mx G R O U P
