Information Matrix COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This is the fourth Annual Report for communication on progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Statement of Support Welcome to the Information Matrix Communication on Progress (COP) Report. Information Matrix supports the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we became a member of the UN Global Compact in 2012 and this is our fourth official report. We have been a proud contributing member and remain committed to living out the principle as a business internally as well as with the work we do for clients. We look forward to improving our action and further integrating the compact principles into our business. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. Thaung Su Nyein Chief Executive Officer HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Information Matrix is fully committed to procedures and process don’t the Universal Declaration of Human discriminate against anyone Rights. We have a policy that  seeks to ensure a healthy and safe incorporates human rights principles. working environment for all We are active in continually and employees regardless of where they consistently applying the protection of work international and regional human rights  provide accessible development policies in our relationships with our training to give employees skills to employees, suppliers, partners, do their job and opportunities to customers and others within the value build their career if they want to chain, respect the rights of individuals  ensure our rewards are competitive, and the communities in which we simple and fair operate.  Ensure full compliance with applicable wage, work hours, Below we outline our approach to overtime and benefits laws. respecting and supporting human rights for all, those in our supply chain, for As a print and online media company, example, we protecting the privacy and security of personal and business data, for our  promote equality and value the clients and for ourselves, is a cornerstone diversity by treating all employees of Information Matrix’s business. We use fairly and equally, creating an data responsibly in accordance with inclusive culture for all employees, numerous laws and client agreements, ensuring equal access to which determine how we use and share opportunities, regardless of their data when we deliver our publications. abilities, their background or their lifestyle, appreciating the differences Measurement to Outcomes between people and treating people’s No formal complaint relating to human values, beliefs, cultures and lifestyles rights have been recorded in 2017. with respect, ensuring policies, LABOUR PRINCIPLES Information Matrix is strongly to associate or those who act as their committed to the protecting the rules representatives. regarding the labor law in our daily business operation. We acknowledges, Additionally, collective bargaining supports and respects its employees’ processes are an essential element in our freedom of association, elimination of employee engagement activities. Our forced, compulsory and child labor, and company policies comply with the local elimination of discrimination. Our law – The Settlement of labor Dispute policies and actions are legal and we Law & Rules (2012), The Edited reviews policies and protocols on a Settlement of Dispute Law (September, regular basis. 2014), The Social Security Law (2012), The Minimum Wages Law (2013), The Leave and Holiday Law (1951), The Amended Law for leave and Holiday Law 1951 (July 2014), The Shop and Establishment Law (2016), The Payment of Wages Law (2016), The Labor Organization Law (2011), The Employment and Skill Development Law and are to only hire people who are 18 or older. We monitor working hours electronically using finger print system as well as monitoring all other absences using online form, to ensure our employees’ manage their workloads throughout the year. We have the employee handbook that clearly explains employees’ benefits along with all Human Resources policies and procedures. We always operate an open and transparent culture to discuss issues and have a grievance procedure in We respect our employees’ right to place outlined in our Handbook and associate freely and voluntarily establish referenced in our employment contracts. and join groups for the promotion and defense of their occupational interests. Measurement to Outcomes We do not interface in employee’s Zero complains from employees decision to associate, try to influence regarding company employee’s their decision in any way, or discriminate handbook and there is no child labor and against either those workers who choose force labor during the report period. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Information Matrix practices active Finance department have developed environmental protection throughout electronic voucher and requisition form the company. We establish our for payment process. We continue to commitment to improve our process and actively investigate new cloud and procedures to minimize our impact on sharing technologies. the environment. As a media company, we use large amount of paper for proofreading process. We have developed a user friendly electronic editing system to reduce paper consumption in our office. We continue to monitor employee printing levels, so we can better understand our printing habits and attempt to reduce the amount of paper we use even further. We active discourage excessive printing. As we have said, our Finance department and Administration department significantly change their workflow processing by using electronic form during the year. All employees are using the electronic request form for leaves, stationary, computer and accessories etc. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Information Matrix is committed to We clearly addressed, defined and maintaining the highest ethical described about conflict of interest, standards and to complying with all antibribery, facilitation payments, donations, corruption principles where we operate. gifts and entertainments in our employee handbook. Our policy is very As a media company, we conduct straightforward as to what is permitted business according to a high ethical and what is not. Our Human Resources standard, live our values and protect our Department always listen the voice of print and digital publication’s reputation employees regarding any suspected – 7Day News Journal, 7Day daily, violations or financial fraud or business Internet Journal, People magazine. We ethics. care about how we actually conduct business with integrity, honesty and Going forward, we will continue to professionalism. maintain zero tolerance for corruption and to work against it in all its forms.
