UN Global Compact Communication on Progress SOS International 2017 www.sos.eu 1 Statement from CEO SOS International is committed to support the UN Global Compact initiative. During 2017, SOS International In 2017, SOS International joined the UN Global Compact. This is our first Communication has continued on Progress (COP) report which describes our to demonstrate effort to implement the ten principles from the UN Global Compact in our strategy and great results in operations. Working with sustainability our main and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has always been part of SOS International’s busiCSR focus areas: ness when assisting end-users in acute situations all over the world. It has therefore only been natural for SOS International to join the 1. People & Health UN Global Compact. 2. Climate During 2017, SOS International has continued 3. Ethics & Security to demonstrate great results in our main CSR focus areas; 1) Climate, 2) People & Health, 3) Ethics & Security. This report includes SOS International’s mandatory CSR report in accordance with article 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Next year, I expect more focus on our corporate culture and the way we treat each other at the workplace, more environmental initiatives and a strengthened governance structure. I hope you will enjoy the report. Best regards, Niels Kragh Printz CEO, SOS International 2 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 3 SOS International Company Overview SOS International is the leading assistance Roadside assistance covers all kinds of assisorganisation in the Nordic region. From alarm tance related to car breakdown in the centres in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Nordic region and in the rest of Europe. Finland, SOS International provides acute In the Nordic countries, roadside assistance assistance all over the world, night and day, is carried out locally by SOS International’s all year round. subsidiaries in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. SOS International offers a wide range of solutions in the form of worldwide medical, travel SOS International was established in 1961 and and roadside assistance as well as healthcare is now owned by 15 of the largest insurance solutions. SOS International secures the companies in the Nordic. SOS International value chain on behalf of the customers as a has a case volume that places the company trusted partner and aims to provide the optias one of the largest assistance organisations mal end-user experience while taking the in the Nordic region. total cost for the customers into account. As a trusted partner quality and compliance This COP report covers the entire SOS Interare also key parameters. national Group and presents our sustainability initiatives from of our three business areas The worldwide travel, health and medical asTravel, Roadside and Health. sistance is conducted in close cooperation with SOS International’s global network of clinics, hospitals and assistance companies as well as more than 20 SOS International partner offices. The network also includes exclusive service offices in high volume areas such as Spain, Thailand and Greece. In the Nordic region, SOS International provides a range of health-related services in cooperation with local networks. SOS International was established in 1961 and is now owned by 15 of the largest insurance companies in the Nordic. 3 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 3 How we work with Corrporate Social Responsibility (CSR) In SOS International, we take our Corporate We have a corporate CSR committee with Social Responsibility (CSR) seriously. The ten representatives from each of our Nordic universal principles from the UN Global Comlocations who work to implement and pact are an integrated part of all our activities continuously improve our CSR strategy. related to our employees, customers, supA central element for the committee is to pliers and society in general. We want to be communicate and ensure employee engagerecognised as a socially and environmentally ment regarding our CSR initiatives. Stakesound company in our industry. holder analysis and stakeholder engagement provides the basis for our CSR strategy. We have joined the UN Global Compact and defined our own CSR signature areas founded in our business areas Travel, Roadside and Health: • People & Health • Climate • Ethics & Security Gothenburg Oslo Stockholm Helsinki Aarhus Copenhagen Our CSR committee has representatives from each of our Nordic locations. 4 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 4 CSR Governance overview Foundation CSR Signature Area CSR Committee People & Health Corporate CSR committee UN GLOBAL COMPACT · Human Rights Climate · Labour · Environment · Anti-corruption Corporate CSR Ethics activities & Security 5 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 5 People & Health 5.1 SOS International is for everyone. Respect, UN Global Compact principles 1-6 diversity and understanding is a great part of The well-being of the employees is essential our everyday work lives and of the services to the success of our business and SOS we deliver. We are proud of our more than 900 International focuses on the right to a healthy employees who represent 30 different nationand safe workplace where discrimination is alities and speak more than 37 different not tolerated. languages when assisting end-users all over the world every day 24/7. As part of the well-being of our employees, Human Rights SOS International is fully committed to respecting human rights and labour rights. • Principle 1 Our efforts which comply with UN Global Businesses should support and respect the Compact principles 1 to 6 include: protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Codes of Conduct and policies applicable • Principle 2 to employees and suppliers. make sure that they are not complicit in human • Equal opportunities for everyone. rights abuses. • Activities related to prevention at the workplace. • Activities related to prevention in our Labour services. • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International Our Compliance Board and Information Security Board are responsible for overseeing the governance structure in SOS International. 5.2 5.3 Codes of Conduct Internal Policies In SOS International, we have a governance Our Compliance Board and Information structure of corporate values, CSR principles, Security Board are responsible for overseeing policies and processes. Our Company Code of the governance structure in SOS InternaConduct and Supplier Code of Conduct state tional, including maintaining current policies our commitment to the protection of human and approving new policies. Some of the most rights and labour rights. important policies related to the rights and well-being of the employees are: • Company Code of Conduct Read our Codes of Conduct here • Environment, Health & Safety Policy • Personal Data Policy • Duty of Care Policy The policy hierarchy is combined with a structure of processes, roles and responsibilities, guidelines and instructions. 7 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International SOS International is for everyone. Respect, diversity and understanding is a great part of our everyday work lives and of the services we deliver. 5.4 Equal Opportunities for Everyone Extract from our Gender Equality Policy: In order to be an attractive career choice for both genders and to develop and attract the best candidates for the company, SOS International: • Has defined objectives for the equal distribution of both genders at management level. • Ensures that the objectives are considered the corporate recruitment activities . • Makes career opportunities visible for the underrepresented gender. Our targets and latest results related to the Gender Equality Policy Gender representation 60% 40% 60% 40% 60% 40% Target 2017 men women men women men women Management level Level 0 Level 1 Level 2-4 Board level * Group Management Other managers Status 25% 33% 75% women 67% women 60% 40% Dec 2017 men men women men Status 75% 25% 67% 33% 57% 43% men women men women men women Dec 2016 Status 85% 15% 60% 40% 55% 45% men women men women men women Dec 2015 * Elect representatives for the Board are chosen by owners without influence by SOS International. 8 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International We have met our target regarding level 2-4 This can be explained by that fact that it is the managers. different owners who choose their own elect representatives. Therefore, SOS International Regarding Management level 1 (Group Manageis not able to influence the gender mix of the ment) it is important to SOS International candidates. Regarding the employee representto ensure that both men and women are repatives in the Board, the activities presented resented in the final field of candidates. For below demonstrate how SOS International management level 1 target was not quite met, actively works to encourage that both genders however, the final decision when hiring a new are represented in the Board. member in Group Management is based on the right mix of competences regardless of gender. In order to achieve our policy goals and monitor the development of the individual regardThe mix of men and women at Board level less of gender (both related to existing emdepends on the result of the election at the ployees and new hires) a number of actions are General Meeting. The target related to gender carried out: representation in the Board was not met. • Internal targets for the share of the underrepresented gender are set. • Efforts to make SOS International attractive to managers of both genders, e.g. by encouraging equal opportunities The gender composition for all new hires in for career development. 2017, regardless of employee/management • Establish requirements for gender replevel in the organisation: resentation in recruitment procedures, we go for the best candidate regardless Gender composition for new hires in 2017 of gender. • Strengthen opportunities to make use of parental leave. • Ensure equal pay for men and women 60% who undertake the same job/have the women same responsibilities. • Ensure that recruitment agencies bring in candidates of both men and women. In the beginning of 2018 we will evaluate the actions and results related to our Gender 40% men Equality Policy and set new targets for the coming period. In the beginning of 2018 we will evaluate the actions and results related to our Gender Equality Policy and set new targets for the coming period. 9 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 5.5 The result of our preventive activities is rePrevention of Sickness and Injuries flected in a decrease in sick leave compared to at the Workplace 2016 and an increase in the annual employee Prevention of sickness and injuries at the workengagement survey. We are very proud that place is essential to the sustainable developour efforts are paying off and that we are movment of our business. In SOS International, ing closer to our 2020 ambition. we have a catalogue of various initiatives and offers available to the employees, for example: • “Duty of Care” initiatives with a broad range of security measures for employees and relevant medical consultants. • Employee councils with local representatives. • Workplace risk assessments. • SOSialise – employee organisation for all our Nordic SOS employees arranging social and sports events. • First aid training for all employees • Safety measures e.g. available defibril“Knowing first aid is lators both inside and outside our office buildings. a natural extension of my • Numerous employee offers including work in SOS International health checks, coaching on how to live a healthy life, flu vaccines, discount on and an important tool fitness memberships etc. to have. I am glad that my In 2017 and the beginning of 2018, more than workplace provides 100 employees participated in first aid training the course.” on our different locations. Erik Jon Sloth, Project Manager Result of our preventive activities Year 5.6 2016 2017 2020 (target) Prevention of Injuries and Damages in our Services 65 68 71 In order to prevent and minimise unfortunate Satisfaction score situations and crisis situations, SOS International provides end-users with check lists and useful advice when travelling abroad. This is one of the ways we care for, protect and act responsibly towards the end-users of our services. Read more here 10 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 6 Climate 6.1 Natural disasters and extreme weather UN Global Compact Principles 7-9 conditions due to climate changes increasingly affect our business. We can see this in In SOS International, we pay close attention the assistances we provide when e.g. helping to the impact we have on the climate and we end-users travelling to areas where flooding, are committed to manage this impact where hurricanes and forest fires have become an it is significant and relevant. increasing problem. Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions due to climate changes increasingly affect our business. 11 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International As part of our environmental strategy, we In 2017, the waste disposal arrangements at strive to continually improve our environmenthe Copenhagen office have been improved tal performance by: and expanded to include several types of waste categories, including bio waste. This has • Developing services and products e.g. resulted in procurement choices of even according to our environmental impact more biodegradable products for our canteen assessment. services. Once the new arrangement is fully • Measuring and monitoring our carbon implemented, we expect to include the result footprint and continuously work to make of the total weight of waste by type and disdata measurable to develop our green posal method next year. accounts further. • Improving our waste disposal arrangeIncluded in our efforts to reduce waste, food ments and ensuring the safe handling waste has been high on the agenda in 2017. of chemicals. This has resulted in decreasing purchases of • Ensuring that employees are given the raw material and ingredients. opportunity to influence health and safety issues in our local work environment Furthermore, as part of a safe and healthy work committees. environment in SOS International, processes for the safe handling of chemical office and cleaning supplies have been strengthened further. This has resulted in updated and improved work place safety instructions with data sheets for all products on the different locations. In 2017, the waste disposal arrangements at the Copenhagen office have been improved and expanded to include several types of waste categories, including bio waste. 12 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 7 Green Accounts The corporate Green Accounts is developed We have increased our CO2 emission level according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol from business travel with 13% compared Standard, and is divided into: to last year. Despite the fact that this is an increase in absolute terms, we see the • Energy consumption from heat and distribution between CO2 emission and the electricity number of video meetings carried out as • Carbon footprint from business travel a positive development. In 2017 the number • Corporate use of video meetings of video meetings carried out in SOS International has increased by 50% since 2016. The development of video meetings and business travel over the past three years 8750 5784 371 256 1780 227 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Video meetings Tonnes CO2 emission by business travel 13 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 7.1 7.2 ISO14001 Certification SOS Climate Day In our Technical Division, we hold an ISO14001 Our organisation and employees care certificate on environmental management. for the environment. On 24 April 2017, SOS International marked the international “Earth Day” together with the rest of the world. The purpose of the day was to create awareness about SOS International’s environmental initiatives and to engage the employees in our environmental work. Examples of how our employees contribute to our environmental activities: The ISO14001 certificate underlines the efforts that are carried out every day to improve the environmental performance in our roadside assistance services. E.g. SOS International monitors and develops services according to environmental impact and strives to reduce the company’s carbon footprint by focusing on: s Aarhu to work in Biking • Phone fix: We constantly develop the competences of our employees making it possible to advise and guide the end-user to fix the problem over the phone instead of sending out a towing vehicle. • Repair on spot: We repair the car on site instead of towing it to a station. Eating gre en in Cop enhagen 120,000 saved kilometres Regarding the phone fix services, we continue to see a very positive development since 2016. Assisting insurance holders over the phone instead of sending out a towing vehicle has Preparing sust ainable snacks e.g. resulted in savings of up to 120,000 driven at our office in Oslo kilometres in our Swedish towing network in 2017. SOS International constantly strives to exceed this number and continuously improve our carbon footprint. 14 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 8 Ethics & Security Business ethics, security and principles on 8.1 anti-corruption are basic components of our Anti-corruption management system, governance structure SOS International will not tolerate any form and policies. of corruption or bribery. Our anti-corruption principles are included in the: • Conflicts of Interest Policy Anti-corruption • Gift and Representation Policy • Sponsorship and Donations Policy • Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in From our Conflicts of Interest Policy: all its forms, including exortion and bribery. A conflict of interest occurs when an employee’s obligation to promote the interests of SOS International conflicts with their own personal interests such as financial interests, or when the interests of SOS International as a company conflict or could potentially conflict with the interests of a customer, partner or supplier. Conflicts of interest must never adversely affect the performance of the services provided by SOS International. SOS International will not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. 15 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 9 Security 9.1 Information Security SOS International’s certified information security management system is an assurance to our customers and other stakeholders that we are committed to: • Ensure data protection by continually improving security. • Ensure 24/7 operation setup through resilient business continuity management. • Mitigate information security risks. We are certified in ISO27001 on information security management and have an internal Information Security Board to govern our information security activities. Board of Directors Group Management Compliance Board Medical Information Technical Compliance Board Security Board Compliance Board 16 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 9.2 9.3 Personal Data in SOS International Compliance Training In May 2018, the General Data Protection In 2017, our programme with basic compliance Regulation (GDPR) comes into effect. The new training was strengthened further and rolled regulation from the European Union increases out for the employees on all locations as a the existing requirements in a number of areas. mandatory e-learning course. Compliance training is mandatory in SOS International In addition to already implemented complimeaning that the employees must know and ance, SOS International has initiated a follow the compliance rules in SOS Internadedicated programme in 2017 with underlying tional at all times. projects to make sure we meet the new requirements. The purpose of the compliance training is first and foremost strengthened awareness and The project includes assessments of for commitment. The result of the training is that example processes and routines, as the new the more than 900 employees now have obregulation sets increased demands in tained even more knowledge about our comrelation to: pliance rules. • IT design and IT systems • Contracts • Consent The main contents of the course are : • IT security • Documentation • Confidentiality • Communication and contact Personal data is important and we are with external authorities obliged to protect it. • Information Security • Personal Data Regulation • Management system • Code of Conduct and policies • Conflicts of Interest • Corporate Social Responsibility The right to respect for privacy Everyone has the right to respect for his or hers privacy, family life home and correspondance. The right to protection of data Everyone has the right to protection of personal data relating to him or her. 17 / 18 UN Global Compact / SOS International 18 / 18 www.sos.eu UN Global Compact / SOS International
