A partnership based on trust Sustainability at Berlin Hyp AG 2017 GRI Report s Finanzgruppe Contents General Disclosures 3 Specific Disclosures 14 Organisational Profile 4 Economy 15 Strategy7 Economic Performance 16 Ethics and Integrity 9 Indirect Economic Impacts 17 Governance10 Anti-corruption18 Stakeholder Engagement 11 Reporting Practice 12 Environment20 Materials22 Energy22 Water 24 Emissions 24 Effluents and Waste 25 Environmental Compliance 26 Society27 Employment30 Labour/Management Relations 31 Occupational Health and Safety 31 Training and Education 32 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 33 Non-discrimination 34 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  34 Human Rights Assessment 35 Local Communities 36 Supplier Social Assessment 36 Public Policy 37 Marketing and Labeling 37 Customer Privacy 38 Socioeconomic Compliance 39 Imprint 40 2  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society This GRI Report complies with the standards (2016) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and was prepared in accordance with the “Core” option. The Sustainability Report also serves as Berlin Hyp’s Communication of Progress (COP) for the purposes of the United Nations’ Global Compact (UNGC). GRI Content Index GRI 101 | Foundation GRI 102 | General Disclosures 3  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Organisational Profile GRI 102-3 | Location of headquarters Berlin, Germany GRI 102-1 | Name of the organisation Berlin Hyp AG GRI 102-4 | Location of operations In addition to its headquarters in Berlin, Berlin Hyp has five other operaGRI 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services tions in Düsseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart. Berlin Hyp specialises in providing large-volume real estate financing Abroad, the Bank also has one office each in Amsterdam, Paris and and develops individual financing solutions for professional investors Warsaw. We have financed properties in the following countries: and housing societies. We excel at developing individual finance solutions in the commercial real estate sector. Our services include financing • Germany for office, logistics, retail and residential real estate, both as stand-alone • Belgium projects and in portfolio form. In addition to typical mortgage loans, we • France offer avals, credit lines, interest rate hedging instruments, financing • UK products for construction projects (builders and developers), current • Poland accounts for businesses, operating loans, overnight money and term • Netherlands deposits as well as valuations and payment transaction services. • Czech Republic As an associate of the savings bank (Sparkassen) sector and a centre of GRI 102-5 | Ownership and legal form competence for its commercial real estate financing activities, we provide Berlin Hyp is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Landesbank Berlin Holdthe Sparkassen with customised value added, not only with our range of ing AG Group (Landesbank Berlin Holding), the majority of whose shares syndicated financing products and support with valuation and restructurare held by Erwerbsgesellschaft der S-Finanzgruppe mbH & Co. KG. ing, but above all with products such as collateralised real-estate debentures (ImmoSchuldschein), syndicated real-estate loans (ImmoKonsortial) GRI 102-6 | Markets served and real-estate guarantee products (ImmoAval). Berlin Hyp specialises in providing large-volume real estate financing and develops individual financing solutions for professional investors As a rule, medium and long-term refinancing is obtained via the issue and housing societies. As a partner of the German savings banks, it also of covered and uncovered bank bonds, and in this context the mortgage gives these institutions a comprehensive range of products and services. bond (Hypothekenpfandbrief) is proving to be the most important refinancing instrument. Berlin Hyp mainly refinances itself in the capital market. The Bank issues mortgage and public Pfandbriefe as well as senior unsecured and subordiThe issue of Green Bonds for the refinancing of green financing nated debt securities. By issuing Green Bonds, the Bank is also represented instruments gives Berlin Hyp a further important sustainability link in the market for sustainable capital investments (see GRI 102-2). in its value-added chain. For further information on Green Finance see Management approach – Economic on page 15. 4  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers Key market activities (UNGC: Principle 6) in € m 2015 2016 2017 Mortgage loans 17,898 18,125 20,082 Public-sector loans 2,652 1,228 764 Employees by region Green building financings 1,037 1,841 2,649 2015 2016 2017 Green Bond issuances 500 1,000 2,000 Number of employees1 576 585 589 of which in Berlin 530 538 539 of which in German branches 35 37 38 of which in Poland 4 4 4 GRI 102-7 | Scale of the organisation of which in the Netherlands 4 4 4 In 2017, Berlin Hyp AG generated an operating result after risk provisionof which in France 3 2 4 ing of € 184.4 million and had a balance sheet total of € 27.1 billion. 1 Without Board of Management Applicable equity capital amounted to € 1.41 billion. Please refer to the Annual Report for details regarding economic development, the Group structure and the competitive position. (see GRI 102-4 und 102-6). Key performance indicators Employees by gender and employment type 2015 2016 2017 Operating result after risk provisioning (in € m) 124.0 120.1 184.4 Balance sheet total (in € m) 28,544 26,354 27,123 Women Men Core Tier 1 capital (CET1) (in € m) 1,007 1,076 1,145 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Core Tier 1 capital ratio (in %) 13.3 13.5 12.5 Number of employees 292 292 292 284 293 297 Employees 576 585 589 of which on fixed-term 9 8 12 17 12 18 contracts1 Full time 180 178 179 267 277 278 Part time 112 114 113 17 16 19 Employees covered by 150 152 144 82 80 74 collective wage agreements Employees not covered by 142 140 148 202 213 223 collective wage agreements 1 Including students on dual study programmes or trainees, student workers and interns. 5  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 102-9 | Supply chain • Profitable business model Berlin Hyp procures a total of € 23.75 m worth of goods and services, of • Responsible business policies which 93 percent is obtained from companies based in Germany. The • Forward-looking customer relationships remaining 7 percent is procured from companies outside the EU. At the • Binding trust end of the year under review, 87.5 percent of the service providers and • Attractive employer IT suppliers had signed the sustainability agreement. Berlin Hyp therefore has a sound foundation for avoiding risks to its The goods and services supplied are broken down as follows: business operations, or at least for managing them safely, while at the same time seizing opportunities for a forward-looking approach. Com­ pliance Management defines requirements and limits for the business Key administrative expenditures operations of Berlin Hyp by issuing restrictions and, in certain circumin €k 2016 2017 stances, rejecting business activities, products or customer relationIT expenses 12,984 14,217 ships. Direct risks arising from our current and future business activities Third-party services 14,126 13,007 are managed by Berlin Hyp’s risk management. Group charges 5,312 5,351 Buildings and premises costs 4,102 4,239 Relevant boards and committees of Berlin Hyp are: Personnel-related material costs 2,984 3,158 Business operating expenses 2,262 2,854 • Supervisory Board including its committees Advertising and marketing 1,922 2,249 • Board of Management Operating and business equipment 676 736 • Market Evaluation Committee Total 44,368 45,811 Details on the responsibilities, skills and members are set out in the respective Articles of Association. GRI 102-10 | Significant changes to the organisation and its Risk Controlling is the independent risk-monitoring unit that covers all supply chain types of risks. Each year, it suggests to the Board of Management which There were no significant changes in the year under review. methods and models for identifying, measuring, aggregating and limiting risks should be used, taking into account the collected data. The unit GRI 102-11 | Precautionary principle or approach is also responsible for operational risk controlling. Sustainability management has defined areas of action within the scope of a stakeholder dialogue process to describe key current and future Berlin Hyp performs an annual climate risk analysis to examine the risks challenges and to develop corresponding sustainable solutions. These that climate change poses to the projects it finances. For further information areas of action are as follows: see GRI-201-2 on page 17. 6  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 102-12 | External initiatives • GIF – Gesellschaft für Immobilienforschung e.V. (Society for Real Berlin Hyp endorses the following external charters, principles or initiaEstate Research) tives relating to sustainability: • HypZert • ULI – Urban Land Institute • Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitskodex (German Sustainability Code) • RICS – Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors • Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charter) • VfU – Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit • The sustainability initiative of the Zentraler Immobilienausschuss in Finanzinstituten e.V. (Association for Environmental Management (German Property Federation) and Sustainability in Financial Institutes) • Green Bond Principles of the International Capital Market Association • vdp – Verband deutscher Pfandbriefbanken e.V. • Equator Principles (Association of German Pfandbrief Banks) • ZIA – Zentraler Immobilienausschuss (German Property Federation) GRI 102-13 | Membership of associations Berlin Hyp employees regularly contribute their experience and experWe also attend the sustainability conferences of various working groups tise to a range of institutions. In this way, Berlin Hyp also ensures that and committees of the aforementioned industry and business associathe company takes into account the industry’s latest standards, including tions. In particular, these include the following: sustainability standards. Among others, Berlin Hyp is a member of the following industry and business associations: • ZIA Sustainability and Energy Committee • ZIA Corporate Social Responsibility Working Group • Appraisal Institute • DSGV Sustainability Reporting Working Group • Arbeitgeberverband des privaten Bankgewerbes e.V. (Private Banking • DSGV Sustainability Working Group Industry’s Employers Association) • VfU Working Group for Sustainable Procurement • Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Betriebsräte der Immobilien und Pfandbriefbanken (Working group of the works council of the real estate and Pfandbrief banks) • BFW – Bundesverband Freier Immobilien und Wohnungsunternehmen e.V. (Association for Private Housing and Real Estate Companies) Strategy • CBRE Financial Council GRI 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker • Climate Bonds Initiative • DSGV – Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband e.V. (German Savings Ladies and Gentlemen, Bank Association) We are delighted that Berlin Hyp’s economic track record is supported by • DV – Deutscher Verband für Wohnungswesen, Städtebau und an overall strong performance in sustainability. Last year Berlin Hyp was Raumordnung e.V. (German Association for Housing, Urban rewarded for its commitment, particularly in the area of Green Finance, and Spatial Development) with top marks by the sustainability rating agencies oekom research and • DVFA – Deutsche Vereinigung für Finanzanalyse und Asset ManageSustainalytics. ment (German Association for Financial and Asset Management) 7  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society The financing of energy-efficient, sustainable buildings is making a major business management perspective by the Supervisory Board at our voluncontribution towards an improvement in global CO2 emissions, given that tary request. This significantly more comprehensive GRI report will give more than a third of CO2 emissions are due to buildings. The bank has you an overview of the values, goals and sustainability commitment of been growing this type of business since 2015 and since 2016 has been Berlin Hyp. Because we remain committed to the Principles of the UN encouraging the use of green building financing instruments with incenGlobal Compact, the balance sheet is at the same time our progress report. tives of up to 10 basis points. These financing instruments are refinanced by the issue of Green Bonds. It was only in 2017 that we successfully I hope it will make informative reading. issued our second green Pfandbrief, thereby bringing the total of Green Bonds issued up to four. We are among the most active issuers of green Yours sincerely, paper in Europe. We intend to consistently pursue this strategy. At the Sascha Klaus end of 2017 green building financing accounted for 12 percent of our loan Chair of Berlin Hyp’s Board of Management portfolio. We intend to increase this share to 20 percent by 2020. In addition, there have also been quite a few in-house developments: GRI 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities We have trained a number of employees as in-house environmentalTo be economically successful in the long term, we also act in accordance management auditors who can offer advice when their colleagues are with environmental and social aspects alongside economic considerain doubt. Furthermore, we are also making headway in the avoidance of tions. Our objective is to assume responsibility to owners, customers, emissions: as of 2017 all German locations are now being supplied with employees and society that goes beyond the legal requirements. A cor“green” power. Furthermore, as a result of the renewal of servers and the responding materiality matrix forms the basis for our sustainability manoptimisation of our printer pool, we have cut our power consumption agement and strategic development. by more than 50 percent. We support the important contribution made by the real estate industry to Moreover, our investments in IT are supporting our many and diverse economic and social prosperity through our business activities. The infradigitalisation projects. For example, we are developing new digital busistructure developed, realised and maintained creates fundamental and ness models and we are rethinking or optimising many of our processes. sound value for our economy and is the basis for commercial activity and The bank is investing € 25 million in the implementation of its digitalisathe housing industry. By financing real estate, particularly green buildings, tion strategy, while always bearing in mind the protection of customer Berlin Hyp makes an important contribution to enhanced and productive data, improved service quality and a lightening of the workload for our infrastructure in Germany and its neighbouring European countries. In employees. These contribute their wealth of experience, while we prodoing so, the Bank also contributes to fulfilling UN Sustainable Developmote the necessary digital skills of selected individuals, help with our ment Goal 11: “Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable”. staff’s in-house networking and also promote mobile working. We have stipulated requirements and procedures to manage ESG (EnviCompetition is intense, and regulatory requirements are on the increase. ronment, Social, Governance) risks responsibly during the course of The way in which we work and what Berlin Hyp accomplished in 2017 was ordinary business operations. Berlin Hyp has also excluded business published in a separate non-financial report, which was checked from a activities relating to certain critical industries. 8  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society and managing real estate whose value is secured by giving professional Berlin Hyp’s materiality analysis for 2016 consideration to environmental, economic and social criteria. When making real estate financing decisions, Berlin Hyp also takes into account its customers’ safe handling of legal requirements pertaining to building, Customers Employees Society Competitors Owners environmental, planning and nature conservation legislation. Profitable business model Ethics and Integrity Responsible business GRI 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour policies (UNGC: Principle 10) In its efforts to make its business operations sustainable, Berlin Hyp goes Forward-looking beyond simply complying with applicable laws and external regulations. customer relationships It has also made voluntary commitments, such as to the UN Global Compact, and introduced various internal policies that provide the Bank’s employees with clear guidance on how to conduct themselves. Binding trust These include: Attractive • Guideline on sustainable real estate financing employer • Guideline on human rights, diversity and inclusion at Berlin Hyp • Environmental management system guideline Very important Important Less important • Sustainability guideline for suppliers and service providers • Guideline on stakeholder communication • Sustainability in Berlin Hyp’s Depot A • Lobbying guideline For example, we do not finance any real estate if its construction or • Guideline on handling of tax requirements operation is directly related to the production of genetically modified • Code of Conduct organisms or the production of tobacco or alcohol. • Guideline on corporate environmental protection • Climate risk analysis Given the significance and long-term use of real estate, the additional • Guideline on social and environmental product responsibility consideration of sustainability is one of the key factors in real estate • Guideline on responsible conduct towards customers financing for ensuring the lasting value of an exposure. Berlin Hyp therein financial difficulties fore has a special interest in its customers constructing or acquiring • Guideline on responsible conduct towards customers 9  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society • Guideline on corporate environmental protection GRI 102-35 | Remuneration policies • Corporate citizenship guideline Berlin Hyp is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Institutsver­ • Guideline on sustainable purchasing policies gütungsverordnung (Institute Remuneration Ordinance). Members of the • Guideline on the sustainable purchasing of office supplies, IT equipment Board of Management received fixed remuneration as well as a variable component dependent on the company’s performance. The remuneration In addition, the Code of Conduct summarises existing regulations and is policy is reviewed at regular intervals by the Supervisory Board. binding both for Berlin Hyp as a company and for each individual employee. The Supervisory Board transferred the duties of the Remuneration Controlling Committee to its Staff and Strategy Committee. The members of the Supervisory Board receive remuneration for their work; this amount is Governance stipulated in the Articles of Association, which defines a fixed remuneration for Supervisory Board members. No variable remuneration is paid. GRI 102-18 | Governance structure Berlin Hyp is managed by a Board of Management with overall The remuneration of the highest-level controlling organ is not linked to perresponsibility. It comprises three members: formance criteria with respect to social, economic or environmental topics. • Sascha Klaus (Chair) The variable remuneration component of the members of the Board of • Gero Bergmann Management and executive managers is determined on the basis of sub• Roman Berninger mitted agreed targets (individual target agreement), taking into consideration both quantitative and qualitative remuneration parameters that The Supervisory Board has 15 members. It has three committees: the Staff are consistent with the strategies and support the attainment of the straand Strategy Committee, the Audit Committee and the Loan Committee. tegic targets. The underlying topics focus on economic, social or environmental considerations. Berlin Hyp’s Board of Management and the Supervisory Board follow the recommendations of the Regierungskommission Deutscher Corporate A reclaim clause was implemented in the remuneration guidelines for the Governance Kodex (Government Commission on the German Corporate Board of Management and in the remuneration system not covered by colGovernance Code) for the development of internationally and nationally lective wage agreements in 2018. Its incorporation in individual employrecognised standards of good and responsible corporate management. ment agreements is expected to be completed in 2018. It is planned to set The Supervisory Board and Board of Management act with the knowledge up an independent remuneration committee in 2018. that good corporate governance is essential for the Bank’s success and is therefore in the interest of its shareholders and the capital markets. Details pertaining to the Bank’s remuneration policies are included in the Annual Report on page 88. Other relevant committees related to the topic of sustainability are described in detail under Management approach environment on page 20. 10  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 102-38 | Annual total compensation ratio GRI 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement In 2017, the mean annual total compensation of employees (including We employ established formats to engage with various social groups members of the Board of Management) at all locations was € 85,026 important to us in order to identify our stakeholders’ sustainability per(2016: 84,499). This figure includes part-time capacities that were not ceptions and requirements early on and to respond appropriately and converted to full-time equivalents. swiftly. Dialogue with stakeholder groups is itself an integral part of daily business processes. In addition, Berlin Hyp uses the following formats: The highest annual total compensation, including fixed and variable components, was 7.9 times the calculated mean annual employee • Customer satisfaction analyses compensation (2016: 11.4 times). • Customer events • Customer complaints management • Dialogue events between the Board of Management and all employees • Employee satisfaction analyses Stakeholder Engagement • • Employee Sustainability Day Staff meetings GRI 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups • Exchanges with the Works Council within the scope of the statutory We maintain regular dialogue with our key stakeholders: customers and consultation and notification obligations employees, policy makers, administrative bodies, the public and media, • Informal discussions and deliberations with management personnel environmental and social organisations, suppliers and unions, business • Investor roadshows partners and competitors, as well as capital market representatives. • Work performed by bodies and associations • Idea management GRI 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements (UNGC: Principle 3) All employees to whom the co-determination obligation applies are GRI 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised covered by collective bargaining agreements and collective agreements. Capital market investors have reacted positively to our Green Bonds activities, welcoming our measures and encouraging us to maintain our GRI 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders adopted course. Furthermore, stakeholders did not raise any specific Stakeholders who are directly or indirectly affected by Berlin Hyp’s busisustainability issues with Berlin Hyp during the reporting period. ness activities and whose opinions and actions directly or indirectly impact Berlin Hyp’s business activities are of particular relevance for Berlin Hyp. Sustainability management reviews stakeholders’ relevance assessments at least once a year, documenting the findings in a portfolio together with the respective stakeholders’ level of influence and degree of organisation. 11  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Reporting Practice GRI 102-47 | List of material topics GRI 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Berlin Hyp holds 100 percent of the capital and voting rights in Berlin Hyp Impacts Immobilien GmbH. Pursuant to Section 296 (2) German Commercial Code Specific disclosures Internal External (HGB), Berlin Hyp Immobilien GmbH is of subordinate importance for Economic Performance Berlin Hyp. The company had no other investments in companies that Indirect Economic Impact would require the preparation of consolidated financial statements. As a Materials result, Berlin Hyp is not required to prepare consolidated financial stateEnergy ments. For details, see the list of shareholdings pursuant to Section 285 Emissions Nos. 11 and 11a HGB in the notes to the respective annual financial Supplier Social Assessment statements accounts. Public Policy Marketing and Labeling GRI 102-46 | Defining report content and topic boundaries Customer Privacy Key topic-specific standards for Berlin Hyp are selected in a two-stage Human Rights Assessment process. Firstly, as part of the preparation of the non-financial report, Local Communities we ascertained to what degree Berlin Hyp’s business activities impact Anti-corruption aspects of sustainability to an appreciable extent. To this end the SusAnti-competitive Behaviour tainability Management Division conducted an internal survey of all releEnvironmental Compliance vant departments, analysed their responses and, where necessary Socioeconomic Compliance sought further information. Employment Labour/Management Relations Secondly, in April 2018 Berlin Hyp determined the relevance of the topicOccupational Health and Safety specific standards for its stakeholders. A workshop was set up, in which Training and Education a group of employees, designated “stakeholder representatives”, vica­ Diversity and Equal Opportunity riously assessed the topics for the Bank’s most important stakeholder Non-discrimination groups. These stakeholder representatives were selected from the staff Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining of departments that have close dealings with employees, owners, customers, society and investors. The analysis revealed that the following topics are of particularly high relevance for stakeholders: economic performance, indirect economic repercussions, data protection, education and training, diversity and equal opportunities, and non-discrimination. All topic-specific standards identified as essential for reporting are listed under indicator GRI 102-47. 12  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society 102-48 | Restatements of information GRI 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Any necessary restatements of information provided in the 2016 GRI This report complies with the GRI Standards (2016). It was drawn up in Report are noted as footnotes in the running text or tables. accordance with the “Core” option. GRI 102-49 | Changes in reporting GRI 102-55 | GRI content index The limits of the report are unchanged. This GRI Report has been prepared in the form of a table. GRI 102-50 | Reporting period GRI 102-56 | External assurance 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 The consumption data, the method of collecting data, CO2 emissions as well as our environmental management are verified externally by GUT GRI 102-51 | Date of most recent report Certifizierungsgesellschaft für Managementsysteme mbH, Berlin, Ger30 June 2017 many as part of the validation of environmental statements pursuant to EMAS. The economic key indicators, where these are audited as part of GRI 102-52 | Reporting cycle the financial statements, are verified by Berlin Hyp’s auditor. The sustainability report has been published annually since 2013. GRI 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report Berlin Hyp AG Corporate Strategy Matthias Arnheiter Budapester Straße 1 10787 Berlin Germany Email: matthias.arnheiter@berlinhyp.de 13  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Specific Disclosures 14  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Economy Projects and granted loans are regularly checked as part of our risk management. For further information please refer to page 70 ff. of our Annual Report. Our conduct towards customers with payment difficulties is based GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 1033) on the 18 Principles of the European Banking Authority set out in its opin– Economic (Economic Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts) ion paper: “Good Practices for the Treatment of Borrowers in Mortgage As a financial institution with some 150 years of experience in the real Payment Difficulties”. This means that customers with potential payment estate lending business, Berlin Hyp knows all about long-term and susdifficulties are identified by an early-warning monitoring system and containable growth. We have resolved to strengthen our position as one of the tacted by specially trained staff. They are then provided with selected leading commercial and real estate financers with the most stable earninformation sources and allowed to submit their own remedial concepts. ings in Germany. For us, this means participating in numerous major real estate transactions in Germany, alone or within the syndicate, and mainFor the bank’s own investments (Securities Account A) at Berlin Hyp, we taining a stable customer base thanks to the quality, speed and reliability use a special filter that allows us to give the same weight to social and of our customer service and loan processing. We aim to strengthen our environmental considerations as to the economic goals of financial investsignificance as a partner and have therefore set up a decentralised sales ments. It is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as structure which has been aligned with the needs of the savings banks. well as on our own compliance requirements. Our own investments are checked every six months. If new investments or an individual security in Berlin Hyp’s business policies are managed on the basis of an annual the portfolio fail to meet the criteria of the sustainability filter, the Treasury strategy and planning process in compliance with regulatory requireDivision together with Sustainability Management decide which measures ments and the risk strategy approved by the Board of Management. In (e.g. immediate sale of our holding of the security in question) to adopt. particular, the financial statements, budgets, financial and risk reports prepared in accordance with German commercial law, as well as the Further information can be found in the Annual Report and under liquidity and new business reports, are the Bank’s central management bsee Management approach – Compliance, GRI 203-1 and 203-2. tools. Potential deviations and their causes are analysed on the basis of budget/actual comparisons, using – in addition to financial performance Green Finance is firmly anchored in our corporate strategy. For example, indicators – various non-financial performance indicators that also take the share of green building loans is to be increased to 20 percent by the into account sustainability aspects: year 2020. At the end of the year under review, this share was twelve percent. To promote this goal, we offer incentives of up to 10 basis points on • Market: new customer recruitment, target portfolio, S-Group business loans for green buildings. However, Berlin Hyp not only aims to increase • Employees: employee structure, motivation, management the share of green lending, it is also striving to improve its sustainability and development track record. Hence, in a nine-month-long project during the year under • Sustainability: green issues, green financing, sustainability rating review, we revised the qualifying criteria for green buildings and also and compliance adopted the more rigorous requirements in the Green Bond Framework. For further information please refer to the annual reporting on Green Bonds 2017/18 as well as the Annual Report for 2017. 15  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society At Berlin Hyp the corporate citizenship function is part of the Sustainabilexpenditure amounted to € 55.9 million. This item also includes the ity Management section, which also serves as a central contact partner. expenditure of the annual contribution to the European bank levy The corporate citizenship process is set down in the Corporate Citizen(€ 10.1 million), which serves to establish a single resolution fund (SRF) ship Directive. within the EU’s banking union. Berlin Hyp plans, directs, assesses and communicates its community The other operating result (€ 47.0 million) was mainly accounted commitment based on the system developed by the London Benchmark for by risk provisioning. The operating result before risk provisioning Group. This means that all key commitment expenditure (“input”) is amounted to € 128.2 million. Given Berlin Hyp’s positive business and recorded. The direct use of this expenditure is defined (“output”), and general economic environment coupled with our active risk managefinally an estimate is drawn up of how, in the longer term, this commitment, we have been able to release € 33.5 million of risk provisions, ment will affect recipients, donors and society (“impact”). netted in respect of our lending business. The valuation result for the securities in the liquidity reserve showed a gain of € 22.7 million. On All donations at the Berlin location of Berlin Hyp are decided by the balance this resulted in a net gain for risk provisions of € 56.2 million. Board of Management and, as from a certain amount, are reported to The operating result after risk provisions came to € 184.4 million. In spite the Supervisory Board. of the formation of provision reserves to boost our regulatory capital amounting to € 70 million, through a further allocation to the fund for general banking risks in accordance with section 340g of the German Commercial Code (HGB), we were able to transfer a profit of € 117 million GRI 201: Economic Performance to our parent company (Landesbank Berlin Holding), with whom we have a tax unity for sales tax and income tax purposes. Accordingly, for fiscal GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – 2017, income-tax expenses of € 0.4 million as well as other tax expenses Economic Performance of € 0.2 million remained in the profit and loss account of the separate For further information  see Management approach – Economic on financial institute Berlin Hyp AG. In the year under review Berlin Hyp Page 15. donated some € 82,000 to various charitable organisations in Berlin. GRI 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed For other contributions  see GRI 203-2. Net cash from Berlin Hyp’s operating activities is mainly derived from For further information on the Bank’s economic performance  see the interest and commission income, which amounted to € 432.5 million 2017 Annual Report on page 44 ff. in 2017. This amount was offset by interest and commission expenses of € 122.6 million. Berlin Hyp incurred operating costs, in the stricter sense, primarily from administrative expenditure of € 134.8 million, which includes staff expenditure of € 73.6 million. Other administrative 16  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 201-2 | Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Berlin Hyp performs an annual climate risk analysis to examine the risks GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) that climate change poses to the projects it finances. Given their type, – Indirect Economic Impacts intended use and geographic location, the financed real estate is For further information  see Management approach – Economic on exposed to low climate risks (storm damage, heavy rainfall, flooding, Page 15. extreme temperatures). At the same time, climate-relevant environmental regulation and regulations governing customers in emission-intenGRI 203-1 | Infrastructure investments and services supported sive sectors is at a high level. Berlin Hyp makes an important contribution to achieving a sound, productive infrastructure in Germany and Europe through real estate Because Berlin Hyp pays close attention to climate-relevant aspects when financing. For example, we support social housing construction and the granting loans as well as the type of financed properties, no increased modernisation of existing social housing properties. Berlin Hyp's ordirisk is expected for our customers or Berlin Hyp in the next two years. On nary business activities usually only relate to certain real estate projects the contrary, the business strategy consistently calls for expanding green such as commercial real estate or housing construction in European, financing. For further information on Green Finance  see Management high-income OECD states. These countries generally have high to very approach – Economic on page 15. high environmental, social and governance (ESG) requirements. Based on our own standards, we go beyond meeting these requirements. GRI 201-3 | Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Pensions are an important component of Berlin Hyp’s additional benefits as In terms of the environment, we favour projects that focus on concepts an employer. That is why the company’s history results in various corporate such as “reduce, reuse, recycle” or “cradle to cradle”. The financing of pension schemes that pay out in the event of old age, disability or death. green buildings represents a part of the sustainability measures that is For further information on the liabilities, see page 97 of the Annual Report. directly related to the core business. GRI 201-4 | Financial assistance received from government In addition to its importance for the real estate industry, Berlin Hyp’s Berlin Hyp did not receive any financial support from government agencies. business activities are also relevant for the finance industry, as we provide investors with the opportunity to invest their capital securely through various products. We also increasingly provide explicitly sustainable capital investments. Further information can be found on a dedicated website: www.green-pfandbrief.com 17  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society We periodically share our experience as an issuer of Green Bonds with other banks. That ranges from participating in round tables to direct GRI 205: Anti-corruption consulting. For example, we allowed Deutsche Hyp Hanover to use the GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) protected name “Grüner Pfandbrief” for their debut issuance. Berlin Hyp – Compliance (Anti-corruption, Anti-competitive Behaviour, also supported the newly established Sustainabonds green bond news Environmental Compliance, Socioeconomic Compliance) portal and hosted the first Sustainabonds Green Bonds Roundtable. The Our Code of Conduct describes all values, principles and methods which scientific discussion of Green Finance topics was supported through the characterise Berlin Hyp’s business activities. It includes the voluntary sponsorship of studies. And our commitment in initiatives was expanded commitment of all Berlin Hyp employees to customers, sales partners, in September 2017 when we became a member of the European Green service providers and other market participants to act in an ethical and Securities Steering Committee. lawful way. Together with our guiding principles on sustainability, it serves to secure and increase the company’s value. GRI 203-2| Significant indirect economic impacts We are committed to the community in which we live and work, making In order to ensure ethical and lawful conduct, the Bank’s compliance activia positive contribution to Berlin Hyp’s wider social community. During ties focus on preventing money laundering, the financing of terrorism, the reporting year, for example, we maintained our long-standing partinsider trading, fraud, corruption and other criminal acts relating to our nership with Kinderhaus Berlin-Mark Brandenburg e.V. and covered the business activity. For example, Berlin Hyp has for example implemented entire costs of an autumn trip (€ 37,000). We also donated € 30,436 to measures to prevent money transfer fraud, identify fraud attempts at an various charities. No longer needed, but well maintained and functional early stage and minimise losses. Compliance risks are continuously anafurniture was donated to two schools in Berlin and Potsdam. Functional lysed and documented in a risk report. IT equipment is being donated to a charity for upgrading. The topics of compliance and legality are key concerns of Governance. Our employees were also active on behalf of Kinderhaus and made donaThe head of Governance also assumes the function of the Compliance tions, such as “Schultüten” (school cones) or basic items for a new apartand Anti-Money Laundering Officer. The management is informed about ment (total value of € 8,100). Many of our employees and management perthe state of compliance management in the company at regular intervals. sonnel were also actively involved in various non-profit organisations (total In addition, incident-related notification is given on an ad hoc basis in value of € 27,700). Last year, Berlin Hyp supported Betriebssportgemeinthe event of serious breaches of compliance rules. The Supervisory Board schaft Berlin Hyp e.V. with a donation of € 35,000. In addition to its social reports at least once a year. commitment, Berlin Hyp, in its role as employer and contractor, exerts a positive impact on economic and social development at its locations. Risk analysis forms the basis for evaluating and minimising potential risks from money laundering, terrorism and other criminal acts. It is carried out once a year and covers all locations. The analysis also includes fraud risks – including corruption – and assesses the relevant controlling activities of the units. The bank regularly reviews the preventive measures derived from the risk analysis and supplements them as required. We also analyse identified or suspected cases across the entire sector in order to improve 18  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society preventive measures and preclude future risks as effectively as possible. GRI 205-1 | Operations assessed for risks related to corruption In addition, the correct implementation of internal company regulations is All business locations are subject to continuous monitoring by Complichecked on a regular and – if necessary – ad hoc basis by Internal Audit, ance and Internal Audit. For this purpose, all transactions are checked by which reports directly to the Board of Management. machine, for example. On-site checks were not carried out, because the risk assessment did not identify any significant corruption risks. Berlin Hyp does not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. Berlin Hyp No irregularities were found in 2017. has binding guidelines in place with regard to the giving and receiving of gifts, perks and invitations to events to enable unequivocal decisions to GRI 205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption be made. As a further preventative measure, the ordering and purchasing policies and procedures process is centrally embedded in Organisation and IT. It is the responsiAll employees and the members of the Board of Management took part in bility of the Neutral Body – a unit designed to be responsible for ensuring web-based anti-corruption training in the reporting year. In this context, that orders are handled in a uniform manner. The Neutral Body coordiparticipants were also informed about Berlin Hyp’s strategies and measures. nates all tender processes, which are also supported by Compliance. GRI 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken In addition to our measures pertaining to corruption, bribery, donations No incidents of corruption were reported in 2017. and sponsoring, we also prohibit the preparation or arrangement of agreements to restrict competition. We treat competitors fairly and with respect. As a rule, all employees are urged to avoid conflicts of interest GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour and, where ethical doubts arise, contact a supervisor or a compliance and/ GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) or anti-money laundering employee. Berlin Hyp expressly does not toler– Anti-competitive Behaviour) ate employees committing criminal acts. We pursue any cases uncovered For further information see Management approach – Compliance applying the “zero tolerance principle”. All criminal, employment and on Page 18. civil consequences will be pursued in the event that an employee has demonstrably committed a criminal offence. We have taken comprehenGRI 206-1 | Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, sive measures to prevent, uncover and adequately respond to fraudulent and monopoly practices activities, making use not only of internal options, but also of relevant There were no legal actions pending or being prepared during the external information. For this purpose, we have implemented a whistlereporting year. blowing system for employees, customers, subcontractors and suppliers, so that any suspected illegal or unethical conduct can be anonymously reported and pursued. 19  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Environment Berlin Hyp’s environmental impact GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – Area Environmental impact Examples Environment (UNCG: Principles 7, 8, 9) Materials usage (paper usage) Energy, water and Copy paper, printed material As a leading real estate financer in Germany, we bear an important social resource consumption (wood) responsibility. It is from this responsibility that we derive our obligation Energy consumption Emissions, augmentation District heating, electricity of the greenhouse effect, • to contribute to preserving the basis of life and economic capacity of resource consumption Waste generation Ecotoxicity, use of disposal Waste paper, hazardous today’s generation and future generations as well as sites, groundwater contamiwaste • to reduce costs by making sparing use of resources nation Water consumption Resource consumption, Cooling, kitchens, by actively engaging in environmental protection within the Company as wastewater generation sanitary facilities well as along the entire value-added chain. Business trips Emissions, augmentation of Company cars, road traffic, the greenhouse effect rail and air transport Climate change is regarded as one of the most important challenges of Product ecology Emissions, sealing Real estate financing our time. Berlin Hyp believes that the capital market can play an important role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. Our climate-protection strategy is therefore based on a series of guidelines that regulate the impact of our business activities on climate. We report about options and We document our measures for the further development of environmenachievements with regard to the decarbonisation of our project in our tal performance. See our online environmental programme for a detailed Green Bond Annual Report. The methods and reductions in CO2 emisoverview of objectives, measures and timetables. An environmental sions are also described in detail. management system pursuant to EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme) was introduced at our headquarters in Berlin, Germany, to idenWe have an obligation to our customers, owners, employees, suppliers tify and manage our environmental performance. Berlin Hyp’s Board of and society to act responsibly and aim to achieve sustainable developManagement is responsible for developing and operating the environment overall within the meaning of the UN Sustainable Development mental management system. All those with operational responsibility Goals. It is on this basis that we have formulated an environmental policy for environmental management report to the Board of Management. that provides the framework for measurable environmental objectives and appropriate measures. Berlin Hyp aims to reduce the following environmental impacts: 20  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Organisation of the Environmental Management System (EMS) Board of Management Environmental Management Representative Sustainability Officer • Ensures that the EMS is introduced, implemented and maintained • Internal and external contact partner • External representation; contact partner for the Environmental Management Officer • Development and updating of the sustainability strategy • Calling and chairing meetings of the Sustainability Working Group • Support for departments in identifying and implementing sustainability measures Environmental Management Officer Environmental Protection Committee • Sustainability reporting • Answering external questions (from rating • Central contact for all matters concerning • Stipulating environmental objectives and the agencies, customers, investors) corporate environmental protection environmental programme • Monitoring the external development of • Operational implementation and continuous • Communication relevant sustainability standards and issues development • Planning • Updating and documenting the EMS • Change proposals • Regular reporting to management • Monitors the acceptance and impact of • Supporting internal/external audits environmental policies • Updating environmental objectives Our environmental performance is managed on the basis of specific enviDetailed information on the current methodology and calculation of the ronmental key indicators. The environmental key indicators presented VfU environmental key indicators is provided at www.vfu.de. here represent Berlin Hyp’s business activities, including the domestic and foreign locations – with the exception of electricity consumption, Since environmental management can only prove successful if all employwhere we cover more than 92 percent of our employees. The environees play their part, we place great importance on involving all employees. mental key indicators are determined on the basis of the calculation tool For example, the Works Council is represented in the Environmental provided by Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in FinanProtection Committee and is kept up-to-date at all times. New proposals zinstituten e.V. (VfU). The VfU key indicators and the associated calculaand ideas on how to improve the company’s sustainability are regularly tion tool are revised by a VfU project group every two to three years; this received by Idea Management, Berlin Hyp’s corporate suggestions scheme. is done to incorporate international advancements in environmental indicator systems and greenhouse gas (GHG) footprinting standards. 21  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 301: Materials However, the focus must be placed not only on resource savings and the resulting quantitatively measurable result but also more on the quality of GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 1033) the raw materials. Berlin Hyp started using FSC-certified paper for printed – Materials (UNCG: Principles 7, 8) matter such as Christmas cards and invitations for the first time in 2016. For further information  see Management approach – Environment It also works with printers that offer climate-compensated products. More on page 20. than half of the Bank’s printed matter in 2017 was printed on FSC-certified paper, in many cases from climate-neutral production. Overall, 91 percent GRI 301-1 | Materials used by weight or volume (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) of the paper used has a sustainability label. Paper is the material most relevant to Berlin Hyp’s business operations. The figures for paper consumption are based on the quantities of paper newly purchased. Because old stocks first have to be used up, 8,166 kg of FSC paper for copies were purchased in the reporting year. In addition, 1,003 kg of paper were used for business reports, customer newsletters GRI 302: Energy and brochures as well as 657 kg of other paper products (business cards, GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) stationery and envelopes). – Energy (UNCG: Principles 7, 8, 9) For further information see Management approach – Environment on page 20. Paper consumption in kg GRI 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organisation Year-on-year 2015 2016 2017 change in % (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) Copy paper 19,000 18,000 8,1661 -1 Printed materials and sundry1 1,6382 1,788 1,660 -7.15 Energy consumption in MWh 1 Only 50 percent of the usual volume was procured for the switch to recycled paper. Year-on-year 2 Other paper products were not separately recorded in 2015. in MWh 2015 2016 2017 change in % Electricity consumption 2,783 2,882 2,665 -7.53 Diesel fuel for emergency generators in litres 729 3,080 1,680 -45.45 District heating for space heating, 2,208 2,426 2,211 -8.86 GRI 301-2 | Recycled input materials used (UNGC: Principle 7) air conditioning and hot water We only use FSC-certified office and copy paper; the paper we use also Company car fuel consumption in litres ¹ –1 117,655 125,902 +7.01² includes recycled paper (219 kg in 2017). 1 Company car fuel consumption was recorded using a different method in 2015 and is therefore not disclosed here. Since 2016, consumption figures have been calculated according to the total litres of fuel consumed. 2 Increase compared to 2016 resulting from enlargement of the company fleet. 22  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society The consumption of diesel oil for emergency generators is generally Berlin Hyp consumed 1.25 MWh of energy per full-time employee in the result of safety checks required for the generators. Consumption connection with the vehicle fleet. This figure does not include business figures can fluctuate widely depending on the refuelling process and trips by rail or air. the performance of tests. The power supply was switched to green electricity at all the German locations in 2017. GRI 302-4 | Reduction of energy consumption (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) We again implemented a range of measures in 2017 to keep our energy GRI 302-2 | Energy consumption outside of the organisation consumption levels as low as possible. For example, ten systems were (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) replaced by four Sparc T7-2 servers. Compared to the previous hardware, Energy is consumed outside of the organisation mainly for business energy consumption for computing and cooling was reduced by at least trips. Relevant consumption figures are not currently recorded. CO2 emis50 percent. The server infrastructure is now significantly more powerful sions are calculated using the VfU tool (see Management approach – despite reduced energy consumption. Environment on page 20) and flights are offset through the use of offsetting certificates. The objectives in the environmental programme to modernise and reduce its stock of printers has exerted a positive effect. The weekly energy conGRI 302-3 | Energy intensity (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) sumption of the new equipment, which is certified with the Blue Angel Nine MWh of energy per full-time employee were used in the form of and the Energy Star for especially environmentally friendly products, is electricity and heat at the Berlin location in the reporting year. around 50 percent less than that of the printers previously used. Energy efficiency in MWh per employee 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2015 2016 2017 Electricity District heating Mobility (vehicle fleet) 23  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 303: Water GRI 305: Emissions GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 1033) GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – – Water (UNCG: Principles 7, 8, 9) Emissions (UNCG: Principles 7, 8, 9) For further information see Management approach – Environment For further information see Management approach – Environment on page 20. on page 20. GRI 305-1,2,3 | Direct GHG emissions, energy indirect GHG emissions Volume of water withdrawn in m³ and other indirect GHG emissions (Scopes 1, 2, 3) (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) 8.000 7.000 6.000 Greenhouse gas emissions 5.000 Year-on-year according to Scopes 1, 2 and 3 4.000 change in tonnes of CO2 2015 2016 2017 in % 3.000 Scope 1 – direct GHG 305 328 237 27.74 2.000 Scope 2 – indirect GHG (location based) 1,676 2,082 1,605 22.91 1.000 Scope 2 – indirect GHG (market based) – 516 452 12.4 0 Scope 3 – GHG of the supply chain 649 593¹ 515 13.15 2015 2016 2017 GHG total (Scope 2 location based) 2,944¹ 3,003¹ 2,358 21.47 GHG total (Scope 2 market based) 2,630¹ 1,437¹ 1,205 16.14 1 Adjusted compared to the 2016 GRI report. GRI 303-1 | Water withdrawal by source (UNGC: Principles 7, 8) As a service provider, Berlin Hyp withdraws water mainly for daily use, e.g. for kitchen and sanitation purposes or for the cooling towers of the technical systems. The total amount of water used is checked weekly by reading the water meters. Our sites are not located in drought areas. Berlin Hyp reports CO2 data based on electricity consumption for over 92 percent of the employees. It offsets emissions caused by unavoidable air travel by means of offsetting certificates. 294 tonnes (2016: 161 tonnes) of CO2 equivalents were offset in the reporting year. 24  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) 2.04 tonnes (market based) and 3.98 tonnes (location based) of CO2 per GRI 306: Effluents and Waste full-time employee were emitted. This includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emisGRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – sions but no equivalents for CH4, NO and other gases. As a company in Effluents and Waste (UNCG: Principles 7, 8, 9) the financial sector, Berlin Hyp does not cause any toxic emissions. For further information see Management approach – Environment on page 20. GRI 305-5 | Reduction of GHG emissions (UNGC: Principles 7, 8, 9) Our total CO2 emissions have been reduced. The target of reducing emisGRI 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method sions by five percent was exceeded thanks to real reductions in energy Disposal is regulated by a disposal concept. As a service company, Berlin and water consumption. However, this was also helped by one-off effects Hyp generates only limited amounts of hazardous waste, for example in such as changing the calculation of mileage for company cars and reducthe form of fluorescent tubes, IT scrap, refrigerant and spent oil. ing orders for copy paper in view of the imminent switch to recycling paper (see GRI 305-1). In addition, Berlin Hyp makes an important contribution to reducing the Total weight of waste in kg indirect environmental impact of its business activities by issuing Green Bonds. The results and methodology for estimating saved CO2 emissions 2015 2016 2017 on the basis of the financed green buildings are presented in the CO2 Non-hazardous waste report (as of 28 February 2018), available at www.green-pfandbrief.com. of which waste for recycling 33,530 32,370 43,530 Mathematically and depending on the benchmark used, between 8.7 and of which waste for disposal 72,479 71,510 72,720 36.3 tonnes of CO2 per year are saved every year per million euros nomi(including thermal recycling) nal value of our Green Bonds. Hazardous waste 1,256 2,193 2,418 Other (bulk goods) 0 0 21,840 Other (scrap metal) 500 0 0 Functional IT equipment is donated to AfB gemeinnützige GmbH, Europe’s first non-profit IT company. The integration company with over 200 employees at 13 sites in Germany, Austria, France and Switzerland fills half its positions with disabled people. The company specialises in processing decommissioned IT hardware for reuse. 25  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society The reuse rate for our donated IT equipment was 12 percent in 2016 and 63 percent in 2017. In total, approximately 5,500 kg of iron equivaGRI 307: Environmental Compliance lents, 18,000 kWh of energy and 6,000 kg of CO2 equivalents were GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – saved in the process, and a position for one disabled person was sponCompliance sored. In this way, social and environmental responsibility was comFor further information see Management approach – Compliance on bined in a unique way. page 18. Having replaced our printers in the reporting year, we now use GRI 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations climate-neutral toner cartridges. For the first time, we also recorded No fines were imposed during the reporting year. Nor were monetary sancthe number of toner cartridges used and can state that we were able to tions imposed on the Bank for non-compliance with laws and regulations. save 6.3 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. Unlike conventional toner cartridges, where the entire cartridge has to be changed, only toner is replenished in the products we now use. As a result, we have reduced waste by around 75 percent in comparison to conventional systems. 26  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Society have the right of free association. Over and above this, as Berlin Hyp is a member of the sectorial Employers’ Association, which is party to collectively bargained agreements, our employees whose employment GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) conditions are subject to collective bargaining for the banking sector as – employees (Employment, Labour/Management Relations, Occupaa whole benefit directly from the protection afforded by the negotiated tional Health and Safety, Training and Education, Diversity and Equal contractual provisions. Opportunities, Non-discrimination) (UNGC: Principles 3, 6) Our management culture is characterised by appreciation, target orientaIn accordance with BetrVG (German Works Constitution Act), the Works tion, sustainability and sufficient freedom of decision-making and creative Council is responsible for a range of sustainability topics (such as health scope for staff. Management supports staff in their development through and safety regulations, equal opportunities, protection against discrimithe career stages and phases of their life. This philosophy determines our nation and observance of employee rights). Thus, in its function as a repemployee strategy and thereby supports Berlin Hyp’s overall strategy: resentative body for the entire staff (except executives), it contributes towards engaging employees in our sustainability management endeavThe aim is to attract and retain the best employees in terms of personal ours. For managerial staff members this function is performed by the and technical qualification. This requires a systematic personnel planning Sprecherausschuss (representative body for executive staff). system, which is the responsibility of HR. We use internal and external resources to meet HR requirements. Vacant positions are always adverBerlin Hyp has regulated certain key aspects of employee rights that go tised internally, and qualified internal applicants are given the opportubeyond what is required by law through a number of agreements with nity to attend an interview. When attracting the next generation of talent, the Works Council and the Sprecherausschuss. These include the organiwe focus on trainees and training students in business management on sation of operations, the corporate pension plan and mobile working. dual study programmes. The concept targeting the next generation of The two employee representative bodies are thus entitled to supervise talent is complemented by the employment of student workers and the implementation of the agreed measures. interns. Occupational safety and health management are further issues that are The Board of Management is informed about the efficacy and results of either organised in accordance with legal requirements or regulated in a the measures introduced in connection with employees’ concerns by Betriebsvereinbarung (agreement between staff and management repremeans of the half-yearly HR report, allowing it to take further measures sentatives, At the request of Berlin Hyp’s Board of Management, the Human in good time. Resource Department does not negotiate employee safety and health protection issues directly with the unions but, in accordance with legal requireAs Berlin Hyp’s employees work almost exclusively in Germany, they are ments with the Works Council or the Sprecherausschuss. In addition, oversubject not only to European labour regulations but also to German riding issues of workplace safety and health protection can be the subject labour legislation and the regulations on co-determination. They also of collective bargaining between the contracting associations. 27  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society The central Health and Safety Committee at our headquarters in Berlin, Managers control this process together with their teams and individual Germany is responsible for occupational health and safety throughout employees and are supported by HR. As a basis for annual employee the Bank. The Act on the Implementation of Measures of Occupational discussions and the current and future set of tasks, they initiate and supSafety and Health to Encourage Improvements in the Safety and Health port needs-based developmental measures of employees and organisaProtection of Workers at Work (ArbSichG) stipulates the duties and comtional units. The aims of all staff development measures, which has been position of the committee. A safety officer is appointed in accordance set at an average of 3.5 days a year, are: with the provisions of ArbSichG. • to ensure the qualification of personnel to cover the company’s HR Berlin Hyp has also set up a health group that regulates the procedure requirements, for company integration in accordance with legal requirements, con­ • to enhance employees’ adaptability to structural changes in the tingent on the agreement of the employee concerned. In addition, the organisation and the corporate culture and Health Group analyses anonymised medical data and the results of • to make the deployment of personnel more flexible. employee discussions in order to propose suitable health-promoting measures. Our health promotion scheme includes, for example, reducing On average, employees and managers spent 3.7 days (2016: 4 days) stress-related risks at work and strengthening independence by furtherreceiving training and education in 2017. ing collective and individual health awareness. HR informs the Board of Management and the Works Council about the Two health days were held at Berlin Hyp in the reporting period. The aim qualification measures for employees and managers by means of the was to raise the employees’ awareness of topics and concerns relating to annual training report. health, fitness and nutrition against the backdrop of mentally and physically stressful situations at work. We strongly believe that diversity creates advantages from differences. We have underscored this philosophy by signing the Diversity Charter In addition, the company sports association Betriebssportgemeinschaft and other initiatives. Our human rights, diversity and inclusion guideline Berlin Hyp e.V. makes an important contribution to the health of the staff. provides our employees and business partners with clear directives for The association currently has more than 300 members. For nearly 25 their day-to-day actions. It is based on national legislation and internayears, Berlin Hyp has promoted tournaments in the sector and sports tional standards, including: activities for improved fitness and team spirit. • The United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights Training and education are designed to maintain the performance of • The United Nations’ conventions pertaining to the world of work our management personnel and employees and to promote individual • The European Union’s Convention for the Protection of Human Rights commitment. The personnel development function cycle comprises the and Fundamental Freedoms following steps: needs assessment, target-setting, planning, implementation, performance review and ensuring knowledge transfer for each qualification measure. 28  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society The guideline defines the framework for promoting diversity. For example, a corresponding collective agreement came into effect on 1 January 2017. Berlin Hyp has stipulated the minimum number of women to be employed As a result, objective, weighted assessment criteria are also applied to the at the second and third management levels (see also GRI 405-1). determination of the remuneration of employees not covered by collecEqual opportunities for women and men to participate in management tive bargaining agreements. These two remuneration regulations ensure are to be even more firmly integrated into the corporate culture through fair, transparent and non-discriminatory compensation. measures such as: In addition, the Bank promotes work-life balance and thus equal • dentifying potential and promoting women in a timely manner opportunities through a broad range of measures, e.g. the introduction • Promoting men as well (absolute equal opportunities) of trust-based working hours, mobile work and the establishment of parent-child workplaces. To achieve this, Berlin Hyp has taken the following measures, among others: At Berlin Hyp, non-discrimination means that customers, employees, sup• Binding regulation on the hiring of female employees in connection pliers and other business partners are not advantaged or disadvantaged with recruitment by HR advisors in order to identify and promote with regard to their female potential • Organisational integration of the equal involvement of female and • race male managers in the Bank’s central decision-making processes, for • skin colour example in the form of the obligatory appointment of at least one • gender woman to a wide range of selection and observation organs • language • Operational integration of the promotion of women by means of the • religion evaluation criterion introduced in 2016 regarding the conduct of • political views managers in relation to the equal treatment of men and women in • other views personal performance reviews. • national origin • social origin Equal treatment of men and women in terms of pay is also a firm princi• wealth ple for us. As a member company of the Employees’ Association of Pri• birth vate Banking, Berlin Hyp applies the collective bargaining agreements • sexual orientation or both to the private banking sector and to public banks. • any other status. With the aim of achieving remuneration commensurate with performance, At Berlin Hyp, human rights, diversity and inclusion are upheld on the success and the market, a remuneration system was also introduced in basis of relevant German laws. 2016 for all employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements; 29  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 401: Employment • • Company pension through employer contributions Employer subsidy for lunches GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – • Optional accident insurance Employment • Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) with consultation and For further information see Management approach – Employment on mediation services for employees and their families page 27. • Emergency care in external child day-care centres • Parent-child office GRI 401-1 | New employee hires and employee turnover • Pool of bicycles for breaks (UNGC: Principle 6) • Provision for next of kin in the event of death Employee turnover during the course of the reporting year, based on an average of 564.7 employees, stood at 4.2 percent (2016: 2.3 percent). GRI 401-3 | Parental leave (UNGC: Principle 6) This affected 41.7 percent (10) female and 58.3 percent (14) male These figures relate to Germany and therefore include more than 98 peremployees. The average period of employment is more than 17 years. cent of the Bank’s employees. The respective national legislation applies There are no significant differences between age groups or regions. for the employees based outside Germany. Starting in reporting year 2018, the employee turnover rate will also be recorded by age. Entitlement, return to work and staff remaining with the Bank after parental leave New hires Women Men Women Men 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Entitlement1 12 22 8 20 Employees 7 4 13 7 Taken2 16 21 3 16 Trainees 2 4 2 5 Returned after parental leave3 4 14 10 8 Students in dual study programmes 1 0 2 3 Remained with the Bank3 3 13 10 8 1 Change in the reporting system: from 2017 not only new entitlements (new start of parental leave) but also additionally employees on parental leave at the start of the reporting year. 2 From reporting year 2017, short parental leaves (<3 months) are also counted. 3 In reporting year 2016: 12 months after return from parental leave, from reporting year 2017. GRI 401-2 | Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not All employees who ended their parental leave in the reporting year. provided to temporary or part-time employees The regulations governing old-age pensions apply only to permanent employees. All company benefits are offered to both full-time and parttime employees. They include: 30  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 402: Labour/Management Topics include accidents at work, immunisation, risk assessment, fire drills and the relevance and implementation of new regulations. Inspections of Relations the foreign locations and consultation discussions are conducted annually. GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – The employees at our German locations are represented in the Health Labour/Management Relations Group across all hierarchy levels. That corresponds to around 98 percent For further information see Management approach – Employment on of the employees. The respective national legislation applies to the page 27. twelve employees working abroad. GRI 402-1 | Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes For further information see Management approach – Employment on (UNGC: Principle 3) page 27. All minimum notice periods as established by German employment law and the German Co-determination Act (MitbestG) apply in the event of GRI 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, significant operational changes, which are also part of the agreements lost days and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities between the management, the Economic Committee and the Works Council. As a rule, we observe all labour regulations in the countries in which we do business. Diseases and accidents 2015 2016 2017 Number of accidents 5 8 6 Total working days lost 67 202 114 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Longest period lost due to an accident (in days) Total sickness rate (in %) 20 6.18 54 6.01 48 5.48 Safety Long-term illness frequency (in %) 1.58 1.02 1.29 GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – Occupational Health and Safety For further information see Management approach – Employment on Five of the six accidents occurred on the way to or from work. Recording page 27. illnesses and accidents by region is not relevant for administrative purposes, since only a small number of employees work at the locations GRI 403-1 | Workers representation in formal joint management – other than Berlin. The German sales offices have an average size of worker health and safety committees around eight employees, and there are only four employees at each of All Berlin Hyp employees are represented in the Employee Committee, the locations abroad. the members of the Bank’s Health and Safety Committee, the Works Council, representatives of severely disabled employees, safety officers, Starting in reporting year 2018, days lost and the illness rate will also be Fire Prevention Officers and the company doctor meet quarterly to disbroken down by gender. cuss matters pertaining to occupational health and safety. 31  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases The average cost per employee was € 1,195 (2016: € 1,244). related to their occupation This includes event and travel expenses. There are no positions at Berlin Hyp that result in an increased incidence or risk of diseases and therefore no typical occupational diseases. Starting in reporting year 2018, it will be possible to report per capita expenses by employee category (employee/manager) as well as the To help our employees avoid common problems that can result from aforementioned figures by gender. sedentary work, we attach great value to workplace ergonomics and offer regular preventive medical checkups. If problems have already developed, GRI 404-2 | Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition the workplace is ergonomically adapted to the individual concerned. assistance programmes (UNGC: Principle 6) The number of training places was increased in the reporting year, and GRI 403-4 | Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements these places were filled by suitable new talent. As a result, 13 trainees with trade unions and six students on dual-study programmes either started or continued Berlin Hyp does not negotiate occupational health and safety directly their training programme. with trade unions. Instead, it negotiates these issues with the Bank’s Works Council in accordance with statutory requirements. In addition, Berlin Hyp provides company-sponsored measures to achieve top-tier qualification for various target groups. This includes promoting young employees, who can apply for a mentoring programme or a place to study real-estate economics. The two places offered in 2017 GRI 404: Training and Education were filled with a view to achieving a balanced appointment of women and men. Moreover, top-tier qualification was implemented and carried GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – out for the specific qualification needs of the second level and for Training and Education employees who are working towards a university degree outside work. For further information see Management approach – Employment on page 27. The training programme on agile and efficient working methods for selected employees and managers which was launched in 2016 was conGRI 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee tinued to completion in 2017. The concept of comprehensive personal (UNGC: Principle 6) development of managers, which was introduced in 2016, was revised in Employees spent an average of 24.0 hours (2016: 23.4) and managers 2017 in connection with the project to review and revise the Bank’s human 32.0 hours (2016: 32.7) receiving training and education during the resource instruments. New measures were taken to integrate established reporting year. measures, such as basic training for new managers, coaching and the personality training method Wechsel®, into a modular system. 32  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 404-3 | Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor­mance The 2020 target of 23 percent women in the first management level and career development reviews (UNGC: Principle 6) below the Board of Management (section heads) was exceeded in 2017 All employees except those on parental leave or suffering from long-term at 28.6 percent. New hires helped to increase the proportion of women illness, for example, receive annual performance reviews and correspondin the second management level below the Board of Management ing training. (department heads) by around 3 percent compared to the previous year to 26.7 percent. The target of 30 percent to be met by 2020 has therefore not yet been attained, but there is sufficient potential to do so in view of the stipulated timetable. GRI 405: Diversity and In the reporting year, the proportion of women in the entire workforce as at Equal Opportunity 31 December 2017 was 49.3 percent (2016: 49.7 percent). In 2017, a total of 7.6 percent of all employees had a severe disability (2016: 6.6 percent). GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – Diversity and Equal Opportunity For further information see Management approach – Employment on Age structure1 page 27. 300 GRI 405-1 | Diversity of governance bodies and employees 250 (UNGC: Principle 6) 200 In 2017, against the backdrop of existing contractual relationships, the 150 Supervisory Board initially set a quota of zero percent for women on the 100 Board of Management until 30 June 2022. The quota will be checked at 50 the end of an employment contract or before a new hire. 0 2016 Women 2017 2016 Men 2017 For its own composition, the Supervisory Board has set a female quota of Age group: Up to 30 30 – 49 Over 49 13 percent (i.e. two of 15 Supervisory Board members). This target was 1 The calculation does not include junior employees (trainees, students on dual work programmes, inagain achieved in the reporting year. terns and student workers. Starting in 2018, the calculation will be extended to cover all employees. 33  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society Age structure1 GRI 406: Non-discrimination Total percentage of employees 2.5 GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – Non-discrimination For further information see Management approach – Employment on page 27. 39.9 4.2 GRI 406-1 | Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken (UNCG: Principle 6) 33.9 No incidents were reported in 2017. Age group < 30 61.9 30-49 > 49 2016 57.6 GRI 407: Freedom of Association 2017 and Collective Bargaining GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – 1 The calculation does not include junior employees (trainees, students on dual work programmes, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (UNCG: Principle 3) interns and student workers. Starting in 2018, the calculation will be extended to cover all employees. For further information bsee Management approach – Human Rights Assessment on page 35. GRI 405-2 | Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men For further information see Management approach – Employment on GRI 407-1 | Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of page 27. association and collective bargaining may be at risk Cooperation between the employer and employees is characterised by a partnership based on trust. The same is also required of our suppliers and contractors. There were no reports of any violations of or risks to the freedom of association during the reporting year. 34  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment We have set down corresponding principles and requirements in a sustainability agreement. Contractors and suppliers must GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) • agree to be bound by them, – Human Rights (Human Rights Assessment, Local Communities, • ensure that they are implemented in their entirety and at all times and Supplier Social Assessment) (UNGC: Principles 1, 2) • relay them along their supply chain and confirm compliance. Berlin Hyp is committed to protecting human rights in all aspects of its business operations. We acceded to the UN Global Compact in 2015 to Berlin Hyp’s Purchasing employees can check contractors and suppliers on set an example, both inside and outside the Bank. Berlin Hyp is putting the basis of random samples or ad hoc questionnaires. Such checks may the following two UN Global Compact human rights principles into pracbe performed unannounced and at any time in accordance with prevailing tice in a targeted manner: legislation. These employees look into the existence of fundamental sustainability structures, compliance with the principles as well as the correct• Businesses should support and respect the protection ness of the information submitted in questionnaires. of international human rights. • Companies should ensure that they are not complicit in Any significant violations of the principles and requirements, both those human rights abuses. committed within the company itself or along the upstream supply chain, must be immediately and voluntarily reported. Employees of suppliers In order to implement these principles, Berlin Hyp has adopted a series may use Berlin Hyp’s whistleblowing system to directly inform the Comof guidelines, such as the human rights, diversity and inclusion guidepliance Officer of any violations. In the event of violations, Berlin Hyp lines, from which we derive specific measures. (see Management reserves the right to agree to mutual plans of action or ultimately termiapproach – Employees on page 27) nate contracts. Berlin Hyp may also monitor the progress of the plan of action without informing the other party. We also expect our contractors and suppliers to act in line with the principles of the UN Global Compact and human rights irrespective of their Any violations against the Code of Conduct or provisions of the sustainasize, sector or work performed, particularly with regard to the following: bility agreement for suppliers and service providers must be remedied as part of an action plan. Continued infractions can lead to termination of • Preventing child labour the contractual relationship. • Free choice of employment • Freedom of association • Non-discrimination 35  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 412-1 | Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 413: Local Communities There were no suspected cases of human rights violations in the reporting GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – year. On-site checks are not necessary due to the small number of employLocal Communities (UNGC: Principles 1, 2) ees and their close cooperation with colleagues in the sales offices. For further information see Management approach – Human Rights on page 35. GRI 412-2 | Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Staff Office and Purchasing employees received training, which also focused GRI 413-1 | Operations with local community engagement, impact on human rights. Five employees attended this 90-minute training session. assessments and development programs Berlin Hyp does not operate outside Europe, meaning there is no need GRI 412-3 | Significant investment agreements and contracts that for any special protection of local communities. include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening All contracts are drafted and processed in accordance with guidelines. GRI 413-2 | Operations with significant actual and potential negative Our compliance system ensures that they are adhered to. Third-parties impacts on local communities are also able to report any irregularities through the whistleblower sysOur business activities are restricted to Europe. However, in the event tem. Berlin Hyp's guideline on human rights, diversity and inclusion can that we started to operate outside Europe, we would then be guided by be viewed online. In addition, Berlin Hyp has defined requirements and internationally recognised environmental and social impact standards. approaches for dealing responsibly with environmental and social risks and risks arising from poor corporate supervision of its ordinary business operations. Berlin Hyp has precluded business activities in relation to certain critical sectors. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – Supplier Social Assessment (UNCG: Principles 1, 2) For further information see Management approach – Human Rights on page 35. 36  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society GRI 414-1 | New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Berlin Hyp contributes to public debate on developments relevant to the By signing our sustainability agreement at the conclusion of the contract, sector through its memberships in various associations and institutions our suppliers and contractors are obligated to improve the societies in relating to the sector, which must in turn act in accordance with their artiwhich they operate by promoting human rights, improving economic, cles of association and must be monitored by their supervisory bodies environmental and social conditions, and requiring that their contractors (see also GRI 102-13). and suppliers do likewise. GRI 415-1 | Political contributions One random-sample screening was performed on site during the reportAs a matter of principle, Berlin Hyp does not make any contributions to ing year with a positive result. politicians, political parties or affiliated organisations. Fees for membership of associations or sponsorship of initiatives are not included in the GRI 414-2 | Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken total but are commensurate with the company’s size. Berlin Hyp procures all of its goods and services from European countries. Approximately 90 percent come from Germany. The sustainability performance of our suppliers is ensured through confirmation of our comprehensive sustainability requirements. Our contractors and suppliers complete questionnaires to determine whether they have, in fact, GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling implemented our sustainability requirements; the correctness of the GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – information submitted is verified by means of random-sample checks. Marketing and Labeling No violations were found in a random sample. Berlin Hyp only supplies ethical products and services. We provide our customers with responsible and forward-looking advice in line with their needs; benefits and risks are communicated clearly. Our products and services must always meet the following requirements: GRI 415: Public Policy • They contribute to sustainable development as defined by the GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Public Policy (UNGC: Principle 10) • They serve the individual without detriment to the common good. As a matter of principle, Berlin Hyp does not exert political influence. We Their development always takes the principles of the UN Global do not employ any third parties for the purpose of cultivating political Compact into account. contacts or influencing public opinion. In the reporting year, no submis• They are always transparent and easy to understand. sions were made with respect to legislative processes, and no entries • Our written information regarding products and services and our were made in a lobby list. The Berlin Hyp’s corporate citizen guideline marketing material must include all significant details on the offer prohibits contributions to political parties. presented to the customer for the purpose of evaluating the offer; this information must be presented in a transparent manner. 37  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society We do not offer or provide products or any consultation on products that GRI 417-1 | Requirements for product and service information do not meet these requirements. Furthermore, some of our products, such and labeling as our green bond programme and impact reporting, are regularly reviewed For further information see Management approach – Marketing and by external third parties within the scope of a second-party opinion. Labeling on page 37. In order to communicate fairly and transparently, Berlin Hyp takes into GRI 417-2 | Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and account the fundamental principles of the “ICC Consolidated Code of service information and labelling Advertising and Marketing Communications Practice” (ICC Code MarketThere were no incidents reported in 2017. ing) of the International Chamber of Commerce. The Code contains specific recommendations for all marketing-relevant areas, including issues GRI 417-3 | Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing such as sales promotions, sponsorship, direct marketing, advertising communications and marketing using digital and interactive media. The ICC Code MarketThere were no incidents reported in 2017. ing’s recommendations are enshrined in three fundamental principles: • Marketing communication should always be legal, decent, • honest and truthful. Marketing communication should always be prepared with an approGRI 418: Customer Privacy priate sense for social and professional responsibility and should be GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – in line with the fair competition principles that are generally accepted Customer Privacy in the business world. Berlin Hyp collects, processes and uses a large amount of personal data • Marketing communication should never damage the public’s trust relating to customers and business partners. This data serves the Bank’s in marketing. general operating activities and allows the Bank to provide customers with tailored advice and support. Communication and Marketing is responsible for applying these principles, with employees informing the appointed marketing service proPersonal data must be handled carefully, in accordance with the law and vider, for example, to ensure that the marketing is responsible. Berlin in line with clear rules so that we do not lose the trust that our customHyp has also established its own complaints management system, which ers place in us. This means that it must always be clear who receives aims to steadily increase customer satisfaction levels. These are checked what information – both within the Bank itself and in our dealings with on a regular basis by analysing all of the complaints received during a customers and business partners. Customer data are passed on to third specific period. The results of these analyses are made available to the parties only if the customer has previously given their consent or there Board of Management and Legal. All complaints regarding securities is a legal admissibility or obligation to do so. services are also reported to Compliance, as these must be reported to the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) pursuant to The processes are specified and described in a standard operating proceSection 34 d (1) German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). dure, the aim of which is to implement the Federal Data Protection Act and other data-protection regulations at Berlin Hyp. The Bank’s data 38  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report General Disclosures S  pecific Disclosures Economy Environment Society protection is overseen by the data protection officer. This officer acts on may not be falsified or destroyed. Any employee who suspects that data behalf of the Board of Management and is not bound by instructions in protection regulations are not being observed should inform the data the performance of their duties. The data protection officer works towards protection officer at once. compliance in data protection matters and oversees data protection measures. The officer is also the contact person for the customers’ data protecGRI 418-1 | Substantiated complaints concerning breaches tion officers, the management, the employees and the works councils. of customer privacy and losses of customer data No complaints in connection with the protection of customer data were The data protection officer issues an annual report to inform the manreceived in 2017. agement of the status of data protection in the company as well as ad hoc when necessary. The awareness of our employees with regard to data protection is of paramount importance, particularly in the context of the rapid developGRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance ment of modern information and communication technology. Despite GRI 103 | Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) – every conceivable technical measure, humans remain a critical data proSocioeconomic Compliance (UNCG: Principle 10) tection factor. For this reason, every employee is issued a data protection For further information see Management approach – Compliance on guideline. They then have to undergo training in data protection through page 18. a self-learning course. The self-learning course must be repeated at regular intervals (at least every two years). In addition, pursuant to the GRI 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG), all employees are usually informed and economic area of, and are sworn to uphold, statutory requirements to protect data There were no fines or sanctions imposed during the reporting year. Nor secrecy at the time of hiring. Data secrecy continues after the end of were monetary sanctions imposed on the Bank for non-compliance with employment. Every employee must ensure that data entrusted to them laws and regulations. are never divulged to unauthorised third parties. Moreover, the data 39  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report Imprint Imprint Publisher Berlin Hyp AG Corporate Strategy Matthias Arnheiter Budapester Strasse 1 10787 Berlin Germany matthias.arnheiter@berlinhyp.de Concept, text and design akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich Note from the editor In the interest of readability, male and female parts of speech are not used simultaneously. All references to people apply equally to both sexes. Photograph © Michael Bader (title page photo) 40  Berlin Hyp AG | 2017 GRI Report
