S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T Sustainability Report 2017 Statement by the CEO 29 Sustainability at Orexo 30 Sustainability management and policies 31 #OpioidCrisis 32 Anti-Corruption 33 Human Rights 33 Environment 34 Labor 35 A sustainable business platform is essential for maintaining business credibility and Orexo shall be a company with sustainable values that acts responsibly and is accountable for its actions. To support and enforce this statement, Orexo joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2017, an initiative that has now gathered over 9,500 companies in pursuit of a sustainable future. This is Orexo’s first Sustainability Report in accordance with the new Swedish Annual Accounts Act and also our first Communication on Progress according to the reporting guidelines of the Global Compact. I am pleased to reaffirm Orexo’s support of the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Yours sincerely Nikolaj Sørensen President and CEO This sustainability report includes the parent company Orexo AB and its subsidiaries. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AT O R E XO Sustainability at Orexo “Orexo wants to be recognized for the value our pharmaceutical products bring to the patients and to be trusted for the way we work and operate in delivering benefits to patients, society, partners and other stakeholders.” Orexo Quality Policy. Orexo’s efforts to create added value for patients and other Orexo’s sustainability agenda stakeholders and to ensure access to quality pharmaceutiIn order to define corporate sustainability priorities for the cal products has a positive impact on several sustainability fiscal year Orexo drafted an activity plan early in 2017 based aspects. In general the historic importance of adherence to on an internal stakeholder dialogue. The plan was local and global legislation and standards with regards to endorsed by Orexo’s Board of Directors in the spring of good practices within pharmaceutical development and 2017 and it sets out Orexo’s ambitions and targets within international business conduct, has pushed the Company the following four areas: towards a more sustainable business. The threshold for being classified as a sustainable company is constantly • Anti-corruption, see page 33. increasing and Orexo is committed to continuously addressing its footprint on environmental and social • Human rights, see page 33. aspects. • Environment, see page 34. In April 2017, Orexo signed a letter of commitment to • Labor, see page 34. support the ten principles in the areas of Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Environment and Labor and thus participate in the United Nations Global Compact. The participation facilitates Orexo’s commitment to sustainable development by adopting globally recognized frameworks and initiatives in order to achieve the global sustainable goals. 30 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M EN T A N D P O L I C I E S Sustainability management and policies To demonstrate and implement Orexo’s commitment to The Swedish organization comprises Research and sustainable development and to raise knowledge internally Development and Corporate Headquarters, and is responabout the subject, Orexo established a Sustainability Group sible for maintaining policies on a corporate level and at the beginning of the year. The group reports on an enforcing global and local policies mainly in Sweden. The as-needed basis to the Board of Directors and includes relmajority of Orexo’s commercial activities are managed by evant corporate functions that can influence corporate polOrexo US, Inc., which utilizes and enforces a Comprehenicies and strategies. The group is led by Orexo’s Chief sive Compliance Policy Program adapted for federal and Financial Officer and is convened by Orexo’s Sustainability state-level law and expectations. Manager. Business Compliance and Ethics Code US Comprehensive Safety, Health Human Supplier Code Compliance and Environment Resources of Conduct Policies Policies Policies Business Compliance and Ethics Code reliability, financial stability and future commercial implicaOrexo’s Business Compliance and Ethics Code acts as an tions for the supply chain are adequately considered. umbrella policy for all other policies and is based on legis­ lation, corporate values and recognized international US Comprehensive Compliance Policies standards, such as the International Bill of Human Rights, Orexo US, Inc. adheres to rules and regulations set out the Declaration of Helsinki1) and the UN Global Compact, on a federal and state level by enforcing a comprehensive and applies to all directors, officers, employees, consultants policy program that addresses the approach to marketing and temporary staff at Orexo AB and its subsidiaries. The and promotion of pharmaceutical products, including, but code also exhorts individuals to raise questions and report not limited to, aspects as expense and aggregate spend suspected violation of ethical business conduct, without reporting and interaction with governments and health­care retaliation or any threat of retaliation. professionals. Supplier Code of Conduct Safety, Health and Environment Policies As a company with most of its activities outsourced, Orexo’s The Safety, Health and Environment policies and guidelines main sustainability impacts and risks are within the supply support managers and employees in their pursuit of a of goods and services. Orexo’s supplier management is workplace free of injuries and illnesses and support the based on the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which company’s precautionary approach to environmental describes Orexo’s expectations for suppliers in a variety of challenges. sustainability aspects. In order to enforce the Supplier Code of Conduct, Orexo Human Resources Policies utilizes processes and procedures to ensure that patient The policies describe the relationship between the employer safety, occupational safety and health, product quality and and the employees and their respective obligations and other applicable business compliance and ethics aspects of rights. They cover matters such as recruitment, equal suppliers are acceptable. The processes and the procedures opportunities, discrimination, conflict of interest and health also ensure that applicable commercial aspects like supplier insurance and other employment benefits. 1) A recognized statement of ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects developed by the World Medical Association (WMA) OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T #OPIOIDCRISIS Substance use and substance-use disorders have created a positive effect on the treatment outcome. Furthermore, significant public health burden. In 2008, the number of Orexo’s Out the Monster campaign counters stigmatization deaths in the United States involving prescription opioids associated with opioid dependence and the Patients Savexceeded the aggregated number of deaths from heroin ings Program helps patients afford medication through and cocaine. In 2016 more than 64,000 deaths in the US lower out-of-pocket costs. were related to drug overdose and the economic cost of Through The National Alliance of Advocates for the opioid epidemic in 2015 is estimated to $504.0 billion. Buprenorphine Treatment Orexo also contributed to the The statistics leave no doubt, but they do not capture the increase in the number of patients that certified physicians full extent of the problem. Information indicates that tens are allowed to treat concurrently. As a result of the signing of millions of Americans abuse prescription opioids, sedaof the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act into law tives and stimulants and globally around 75 per cent of the in 2016 certified nurse practitioners and physician assistants burden of disease caused by drug-use disorders is associare now also allowed to prescribe medication for opioid ated with opioids. Meanwhile, the availability and access to dependence treatment.6) scientific evidence-based treatment remains limited in During 2017 the main target was to further improve many countries and only about 1 in 6 people worldwide Orexo’s chain of supply, in order to maintain an affordable suffering from drug-use disorders receives treatment. 2) 3) 4) 5) choice for payers and patients. In addition to the Patients Orexo’s key therapeutic area is within treatment of opioid Savings Program, the market access agreements in the US dependence and ever since Zubsolv® was launched in the for 2018 will give patients in the commercial segment US, one of Orexo’s main objectives has been to make treatgreater access to treatment with Zubsolv, which means ment available for more people. Multiple initiatives have most patients can obtain treatment under their commercial been launched and are still maintained; RISE allows patients insurance plans. The approval of Zubsolv in the EU in to choose from a selection of online tools and resources November 2017 also gives the prescribers in the EU and build the plan they feel is most helpful to their recovery increased ability to treat the estimated 1.3 million high-risk and the purpose of the REZOLV study is to inform physiopioid users in Europe.7) cians, payers and patients about factors that may have a 2) Progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals E/2016/75 3)  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Annual Surveillance Report of Drug-Related Risks and Outcomes — United States, 2017. 4)  United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, World Drug Report 2017 The Council of Economic Advisers, The Underestimated Cost of the Opioid Crisis 5)  6)  The National Alliance of Advocates for Buprenorphine Treatment (NAABT) European Drug Report 2017: Trends and Developments 7)  Sustainable Development Goal #3 – Good Health and Well-being The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals were adopted by the United Nations in 2015. The goals and their specific ­targets together aim at ending poverty, protecting the planet and ensuring ­prosperity for all. Sustainable Development Goal number 3 and its target 3.5 is of especial ­importance to Orexo. The goal seeks to ensure health and well-being for all, at every stage of life and addresses all major health priorities, including universal health coverage and access for all to safe, effective, quality and affordable ­medicines. The target is intented to strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol. 32 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T ANTI-CORRUPTION A recognized risk for businesses within the healthcare secFor the future, Orexo aims to strengthen its efforts within tor is ethics and compliance violations in interactions with this area and perform a more comprehensive implementaHealthcare Professionals (HCP), Healthcare Organizations tion for employees that are at higher risk of being exposed and Government Officials. The legislation in this area is to certain situations related to anti-corruption and other comprehensive in the US with the Physician Payments Sunsustainability issue areas. shine Act as an example where transparent disclosure of Orexo US, Inc. adheres to rules and regulations set out expenses in relations with HCPs is required. In order to on a federal and state level by enforcing a comprehensive complement the legislation and to communicate internally policy program that addresses the approach to marketing and externally what values should permeate Orexo’s busiand sales of products, including, but not limited to, aspects ness conduct, Orexo formed the global and local policy such as expense and aggregate spend reporting and interprogram that was described earlier in the report. action with governments and healthcare professionals. At the end of 2017 Orexo US, Inc. also deployed an Commitment Target 2017 Progress updated ethics compliance hotline with the ability to file We are recognised as Initiate, approve and Target met confidential, anonymous reports via either the telephone a reliable and profesimplement new on-time or the Internet and the possibility for reporters to anonysional partner with Corporate Code in-full mously track the progress of their reports. high integrity of Conduct 2017 (year-end data) During 2017, Orexo revised its Business Compliance and indicators Performance Parent company Group Ethics Code to further integrate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. The Code was endorsed by Orexo’s of Code of Conduct Implementation Board of Directors in June 2017 and implementation was (of employees) 81% 89% conducted continuously during the fall of 2017, peaking with a celebration of the UN Human Rights and AntiCorruption days in December. Through this and previous implementation sessions 89 percent of the organization have participated in training on compliance and ethics within business conduct. HUMAN RIGHTS Through the Business Compliance and Ethics Code Orexo on a handful of strategic suppliers and depending on the supports the International Bill of Human Rights and the ILO nature of the business and location of the assessed partner Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. different sustainability aspects are evaluated and audited. The company’s highest risks of violation of these rights are, Orexo’s main target for 2017 was to further integrate sushowever, in the Supply Chain, beyond the direct control of tainability assessments into the Supplier Management Prothe company. Hence, in the Human Rights issue area the cesses and the activity is still ongoing. Although the Comcompany works with enhancing external performance and pany aims to strengthen its efforts within this area, it is the commitment is enforced through the Supplier Code of important to emphasize that sustainability aspects are sepConduct and the Supplier Management Principles. arately assessed when handling new and existing suppliers. All suppliers are categorized in segments based on their The next step is to standardize and integrate these assesscomplexity and criticality (Tier A-D; A highest, D lowest) ments into the established Supplier Management Principles, and initial and continual assessments are performed not the least to improve the efficiency of the processes. accordingly. The sustainability assessments currently focus In the end of 2016 all existing tier A suppliers had been Commitment Target 2017 Progress We train our employees Full integration of applicable Safety, Health and Process remains to be fully and assess our partners Environment issues in Orexo’s tiered Corporate integrated to reduce risks Social Responsibility due diligence process Approved Tier A and new suppliers assessed according to integrated process OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T off-site audited with regard to all four sustainability issue The partnership with Orexo’s Swedish Facility Services areas (Environment, Human Rights, Labor and Antisupplier (a Tier B supplier) was updated with a separate Corruption), with some minor remarks that are being moniSupplier Account Plan where Orexo’s sustainability ambitored. New partnerships are assessed continuously and will tions in the collaboration are more visible. The supplier is be disclosed as applicable through primary channels of also a signee of the UN Global Compact. communication. Performance of Orexo’s Supplier Management Process with regards to sustainability Performance Number of approved Suppliers Sustainability Assessments performed Number of approved Suppliers with open Sustainability issues ­indicators 1-6 7-14 15Result Target 2017 Major Moderate Minor Tier A ∞ – – 100 % 100 % NONE NONE 3 Tier B – ∞ – 0% 0% Tier C – ∞ – 0% 0% Not available Tier D – – ∞ 0% 0% ENVIRONMENT Orexo focuses its efforts within the Environmental Managepotential legislative compliance issues. The tool is at present ment to where the greatest risks of adverse environmental not fully utilized in order to identify improvements beyond impact are found. This risk-based approach points out the legislation. supply of goods, product development and the handling of During 2017 the main target was to use the information chemicals. Within these areas, the company is committed from the EAA as a base, and complement it with a higher to monitoring and improving energy efficiency, consumpdegree of detail and find certain areas where Orexo could tion of materials and waste management and keeping advance a greater environmental responsibility. emissions of pharmaceutical substances at low levels. The In parallel, measures were taken to enhance the Corporate parent company has an Environmental Management SysRisk Management Procedures and the activity remains to tem based upon ISO 14001 (not certified). be finalized. Accordingly, the environmental risk and benefit In 2016 the organization finalized an Environmental analysis is yet to be finalized. Aspect Assessment (EAA) that pointed out areas where In order to realize Orexo’s strategies of expanding the Orexo has the highest potential environmental impact and development pipeline, the R&D site in Sweden has intensiis able to get the most return on invested efforts. The analfied its research activities. In 2017 the number of produced ysis is an effective tool to see where ‘violation’ of a sustainR&D-units was increased by 208% compared to 2016 and ability aspect is more likely to occur and also to address the parent company’s waste generation decreased by 18%. Commitment Target 2017 Progress We are aware of our operational footInitiate and finish a risk benefit analysis to assess Environmental risk and benefit analysis print and we continuously assess and Orexo´s current Environmental footprint and thus ongoing, but not finalized minimize our environmental impact find improvement opportunities Environmental issues to be further integrated in For Supplier due diligence, see Human Orexo’s supplier due diligence activities Rights section Performance indicators 2016 2017 Energy intensity in R&D facility 1) [MWh/SEK million turnover] 3,9 3,9 Combustible waste [kg/employee at parent company] 69,8 53,8 1) Includes heating, cooling and electricity 34 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T LABOR Through the Business Compliance and Ethics Code Orexo zation maintains an equal opportunities plan which is supports the International Labour Organization’s Fundaupdated every three years and will be updated again in mental Principles and Rights at Work. Since the impacts of 2018. Data such as differences in sick leave, remuneration, Orexo’s outsourced business conduct are managed within recruitment, work load and parental leave/absence due to the Human Rights issue area this section comprises inforcare of children are analyzed and actions are described in mation on the performance within the Orexo Group. the plan if significant discrepancies are found. Orexo has a workforce of approximately one hundred In September and October 2017 a revised Safety & Health people evenly distributed between Sweden and the United Risk Management Report and a new incident reporting proStates. As a company with its roots in Sweden and a subsidcedure were launched in Sweden. Through the Risk Maniary in another developed country, fundamental labor rights agement Report Orexo identified nine areas where the risk standards such as the abolition of child labor, maintaining profiles were not acceptable to the Occupational Safety freedom of association and elimination of forced and comand Health Committee and mitigation activities are still pulsory labor are generally both ethically and legislatively ongoing. The new incident reporting tool raised the numwell developed. Orexo, however, recognizes the local and ber of near misses reported from zero (2016) to three global challenges of inequality in respect of employment (2017). and occupationally inflicted health issues. Incentive Target 2017 Status Our work on safety Enhancement of incident and accident reporting tool to New reporting process implemented on time, and health engages foster a proactive safety culture in full all employees Safety & Health Risk Management Report to be reviewed S&H risk management file updated and multiand further utilized to drive activities within prioritized areas ple improvement activities initiated Through the Business Compliance and Ethics Code In order to identify and act on possible breaches of the Orexo condemns any form of harassment or discrimination Code of Conduct, the US subsidiary launched a new thirdincluding such characteristics protected by applicable laws party solution for the registration and handling of anonyand regulations. To enforce the policy the Swedish organimous reports from employees. 2016 (year-end data) 2017 (year-end data) Performance ­indicators Parent company Group Parent company Group Employment1) Number of employees 55 102 53 90 employees with a permanent contract 95% 97% 98% 99% employees with a temporary contract 5% 3% 2% 1% Temporary workers 4% 24% 10% 32% Gender equality Female employees 44% 57% 51% 56% women in management positions 50% 28% 44% 47% women in executive management team 0% 0% Women in board of directors 29% 29% Other data Employee satisfaction index 2) 82 Not available 80 Not available Employee absence due to illness 3) 4% Not available 2% 1% 1) Employees include workers with employment at the parent company Orexo AB and the subsidiary Orexo US, Inc., Temporary workers are excluded 2) Springlife – A score of 70 and above is classified as a high score and indicates that the conditions for employees carrying out their work are very good 3) Includes employees only OREXO GROUP AGE RANGES 25 – 30, 8% 51 – 65, 27.5% 31 – 40, 20.5% 41 – 50, 44% OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T Read more on our websites Our corporate website, www.orexo.com, is our foremost communication channel. For more information about Zubsolv and opioid dependence in the US, see the websites targeting insurance companies, healthcare professionals and patients, www.rise-us.com and www.zubsolv.com. Other channels that are updated continuously with information regarding our business or our environment are: 36 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2017
