2017 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT Contents 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Performance highlights 1 Chairman’s message 2 CEO’s message 3 Sustainability strategy 4 Focusing on the issues that matter 6 Sustainability governance 7 Stakeholder engagement 8 2017 sustainability performance 12 2 Responsible business Overview and performance highlights 14 Safety 15 Security 19 Operational resilience 19 Ethics and integrity 20 Managing cyber security 20 Customer privacy 21 Looking after our people 21 Climate change 25 Supply chain 26 Human rights 27 3 Planning for the future This is an interactive PDF designed Overview and performance to make it easy to navigate. The best highlights 28 way to view this report is with Access to and from the airport 29 Adobe Reader. Click on the links on Delivering customer service the contents page or use the home excellence 30 button in the footer to navigate Enhancing service delivery and the report, and use the underlined improving operational efficiency 32 text links throughout the report to Meeting future capacity 33 view related content online. 4 Supporting About this report communities This report covers the year 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, with the exception of environmental data sets that are reported for 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 in line with Sydney Airport’s Overview and performance other external environmental reporting. It is prepared with highlights 34 consideration of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Community engagement 35 Reporting Guidelines ‘core’ option for reporting. It covers all of Sydney Airport’s operations and matches the reporting scope Noise and air quality 36 of our Annual Report. This year we have commenced reporting Investing in our community 36 passenger satisfaction scores for the Domestic precinct. This is Managing our carbon footprint 40 consolidated for T2 and T3 terminals. There have been no other changes in reporting scope from our 2016 Sustainability Report. Environmental management 41 We do not claim that this report provides 100% coverage of our sustainability performance. This report is, however, our best 5 Other attempt to report openly and honestly with our stakeholders and is a reflection of our current level of knowledge and information understanding of our sustainability issues and initiatives. To provide stakeholders with a greater level of confidence in our Performance data 43 reporting, we have engaged KPMG to provide limited assurance 2018 commitment summary 46 over selected data sets within our 2017 Sustainability Report including, safety, customer satisfaction, energy and carbon, GRI index 48 female representation and waste. KPMG’s assurance statement Independent Limited is included within the assurance section of this report. Assurance 54 We welcome feedback on our sustainability reporting and performance. Please email us at sustainability@syd.com.au. Sustainability leadership DIVERSITY CARBON SAFETY INTENSITY CO2 PERFORMANCE 37.9% PER PASSENGER 27.2% Lost time incidents 2 female employees 5 3 in 2016 38.9% female managers reduction since 2010 Lost time injury frequency rate 3 VALUING OUR PEOPLE AVIATION SAFETY HOURS 1 5.0 3.3 in 2016 87.5% employees enjoy working 8,255 Passenger incident rate 4 0.97 at Sydney Airport 1.12 in 2016 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SCORES INTERNATIONAL DOMESTIC OVERALL SATISFACTION OVERALL SATISFACTION 4.01/5 Ambience 3.89/5 in 2016 Cleanliness Wayfinding 3.95/5 Ambience 3.91/5 in 2016 Cleanliness Wayfinding 4.17/5 4.24/5 4.17/5 4.11/5 4.14/5 4.09/5 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT GROWTH ($m) INVESTMENT 2017 4.9 $4.9m 2016 2015 2.6 3.3 48% from 2016 2014 1.5 1 Annual hours spent by the ramp safety team carrying out engagement and enforcement activities. 2 The number of work-related injuries that result in at least one full day or shift being lost after the day in which the injury or illness occurred. 3 Lost time injuries per one million hours worked, incurred by employees. 4 Number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers. Excludes medical conditions and in-flight medical incidents. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 1 Chairman’s message The success of an airport is a reflection of how it engages with its customers, stakeholders and community about the things that are important to all of us. With this in mind, we’ve enhanced our sustainability approach in 2017, building stronger connections with our stakeholders as we deliver on the long‑term vision for the business. Driving sustainable performance I’m pleased to deliver our 2017 sustainability report. It has been another year of strong financial performance at Sydney Airport, as we’ve continued to deliver on our strategy to drive tourism and aviation growth. Importantly, our performance has remained strong across both financial and operational metrics in this, our third year of sustainability reporting. Whilst the strong financial performance is important, we also recognise that responsible growth is core to our success, and we continued to balance our strategic business priorities with the needs of our customers and the surrounding communities. In 2017 we continued to evaluate the most efficient and sustainable use of our site. We did this because we understand that the highest and best use of our resources and infrastructure delivers sustainable growth. Being a good neighbour and making a positive contribution to our community is an essential part of ensuring our success. In the pages of this report you’ll see how we’re focused on operating fairly and with integrity, managing risk, building resilience and collaborating with our stakeholders. These are all essential ingredients to our long-term strategy. In 2017 we reviewed our sustainability approach to ensure it continued to support our broader strategy. The Board and management have addressed feedback from stakeholders as part of this process and worked closely with our people to ensure our strategy continued to respond to our customer and community needs. To reflect our new approach, we have set out our sustainability report under three key pillars; responsible business, planning for the future and supporting communities. We trust this better highlights our commitment to sustainable growth, and how we’re working with our partners and stakeholders to deliver the best possible outcomes for the Sydney and NSW community. TREVOR GERBER Chairman 2 1 Sustainability at CEO’s Sydney Airport message 2 Responsible business When I joined Sydney Airport in January this year, I was Planning for the future pleased to see our strong commitment to sustainability. I’m proud of Sydney Airport’s sustainability Across all levels of the organisation, we are focused on delivering on our sustainability commitments, 3 achievements, recognising the work of Kerrie Mather Planning reducing our environmental footprint, building resilience and the team, and I’m enthused to work closely with in our operations and continuing to improve the airport Sydney Airport’s community and broader stakeholders experience for our customers. for the future to further understand the challenges for our airport partners and neighbours. Pleasingly, we saw significant improvements in our passenger satisfaction scores during the year across I am committed to ensuring sustainability is an integral both our International and Domestic precincts. These part of our business strategy. The sustainable growth results highlighted our commitment to our customers of our business, and our commitment to ensuring we as we worked with our partners to improve efficiency deliver on our vision responsibly, are of the highest 4 and the airport experience. importance to me as I take the reins at Sydney Airport. We continued to be recognised for our sustainability We recognise how vital access to and from the Supporting leadership during the year by achieving a ‘Leading’ airport is to our customers and stakeholders. We have rating for our sustainability reporting from the Australian continued to deliver our ground transport improvement Council of Superannuation Investors. We were again program this year, with major completions due in 2018 communities included on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, sitting and with complementary NSW Government works in the top 10 for the transport and infrastructure sector also well underway. In addition to opening a range globally, and we are now listed on the FTSE4Good of new roads within the airport precinct, we were Index. In addition, we have been recognised as a global also pleased to unveil our new pedestrian bridge and gender equality leader on Equileap’s Top 200 list. These cycleway at T1 International. The cycleway furthers our results reflect the continued focus and commitment commitment to offer modal choice for our customers to deliver responsible and sustainable business across our operations. and promotes active transport for staff and visitors. 5 Supporting communities Other Responsible business We increased our investment in the community during Just as we’ve delivered strong financial performance the year as we implemented our new community information in 2017, we’ve also strived to ensure we continue to strategy under our three pillars of Live Local, Leading operate an ethical, responsible and transparent business. and Learning, and Sydney’s Airport. Safety and security remain the top priorities for the Sydney Airport contributed $4.9 million to the Sydney Airport team. We’ve implemented a range community in 2017, as we continued to build on existing, of new programs this year to enhance our safety focus long-term partnerships while also introducing landmark and have renewed our Airport Emergency Plan to ensure agreements with new partners. In addition to our we’re constantly evolving our approach in this dynamic community partnerships, we focused on responsible operating environment. Whilst good work has been environmental management, working closely with our done to date, we recognise that we need to continuously airport partners. We maintained our Level Three Airport improve our performance in these critical areas. Carbon Accreditation in 2017 and have reduced our carbon emissions intensity (per passenger) by 27.2% Our Code of Conduct was refreshed during 2017, with since 2010. While this was an outstanding result, we’re staff participating in briefing sessions to embed the Code striving to go even further, and have set a new 2025 into our business. This provided a good opportunity goal to reduce emissions intensity by 50% compared to highlight the importance of responsible business and to 2010 levels. further enhance our values-driven culture. The Code provides a more detailed examination of our values, I’m proud of the airport’s progress on its sustainability applied to everyday situations, and sets out a framework strategy during the year and am looking forward for reporting should issues arise. Our Code of Conduct to continuing this work in 2018. was complemented by the development of our first Human Rights Policy, and an updated Supplier Code GEOFF CULBERT of Conduct, assisting us to assess our supply chain for human rights risks. In addition, our new Diversity Chief Executive Officer and Inclusion Strategy was finalised during the year. We were proud to confirm that 50% of our new recruits in 2017 were women, while our overall female staff representation grew to 37.9%, up from 36.4% in 2016. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 3 Sustainability strategy Our vision is to deliver a world‑class airport experience for our customers, and value to our surrounding communities and the broader economy. We seek to achieve this through the key role we play in fostering tourism and trade in Australia and working with our partners. We strive to be a customer‑centric organisation and look to deliver innovative and technology‑driven solutions to optimise the operation of our airport. We recognise that to achieve our ambition we need to make sustainability central to our business strategy. As a sustainable business we need to: • Operate fairly and responsibly, ensuring risks are identified and appropriately managed; • Integrate social and environmental considerations into our decision making processes; and • Work in collaboration with our customers, the airport community and other stakeholders to deliver mutually beneficial outcomes. This year we reviewed our sustainability approach to ensure it continued to support our broader strategic direction and deliver value to our investors, customers and the community. Our review considered feedback from our stakeholders and focused on those issues that are most material to our business, and those where we feel we can make the most meaningful impact. Further detail on our material issues can be found on page 6 of this document. Responsible Planning for Supporting our business the future community Being ethical, Planning for the future Working with our responsible and to support passenger communities to protect transparent in how growth and deliver the environment and we do business a step change in create shared value customer experience Key issues: safety and Key issues: access to Key issues: community security, cyber security, and from the airport, engagement and investment, customer privacy, operational customer experience, noise and air quality, resilience, business ethics, enhancing service managing our carbon tax transparency, looking delivery and operational footprint, environmental after our people, diversity efficiency, capacity to meet management. and inclusion, climate change future demand. risk, managing our supply chain, human rights. 4 1 Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability at The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) seek to address the most significant challenges our world is facing today. We believe we can help to address some of these Sydney Airport challenges, and have given consideration to how we can best make a positive impact. We have identified nine goals, which we have meaningfully supported throughout the year. In the year ahead, we will identify Key Performance Indicators to measure our progress against these goals. 2 We are committed to We are committed to We are playing a role Responsible supporting our people providing equal access in ensuring women and the surrounding to training that supports across the airport business community to live the development of and surrounding healthy lives and our people. Through our communities are maintain wellbeing community programs we support afforded the same HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED the development of young people, opportunities as men THIS GOAL IN 2017: in particular disadvantaged and HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED • Investing in community-based minority groups THIS GOAL IN 2017: health and education programs, HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED • Supporting women in leadership in particular for young people; • Providing our employees with THIS GOAL IN 2017: • Supporting early childhood and ensuring sufficient participation of women in decision making; 3 access to health and wellbeing Planning development by offering our people • Empowering women and programs including an Employee flexible work options, including girls through our community Assistance Program; and part-time work; investment program; for the future • Promoting and maintaining • Providing and supporting educational, • Offering flexible work options and a safe and healthy workplace scholarship and internship ensuring our recruitment procedures for our employees and the opportunities for young adults; and are attracting females; and airport community. • Offering training and educational • Maintaining a Code of Conduct that programs for our people, sets out expectations with regards ensuring equal access to male to respecting difference. and female employees. 4 Supporting We are working across We are committed to We are committed our value chain to operational resilience to supporting equality ensure human rights and efficiency. for all and promoting communities across the airport We drive a significant a diverse and are respected contribution to the local, inclusive workplace HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED regional and national economy HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED THIS GOAL IN 2017: HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED THIS GOAL IN 2017: • Established a Human Rights THIS GOAL IN 2017: • Established a Diversity and Policy setting out minimum • Delivery of an operational resilience Inclusion Council and Strategy; 5 expectations in alignment with plan to minimise airport disruptions • Commitment to reducing the the International Bill of Human and maintain business continuity; gender pay equity gap; and Rights and International Labour • Contribution to the economy, • Supporting under-represented Other Organisation’s principles; and job creation and Australia’s groups in our community, • Established a Code of Conduct and tourism industry; in particular Indigenous Supplier Code of Conduct including communities and women. information • Setting and delivery of carbon access to a grievance mechanism. reduction goals and participation Commenced development in the Airport Carbon Accreditation of a Reconciliation Action Plan. program; and • Supporting the operation of resilient and efficient infrastructure through our climate change work as well as the development of an energy management strategy. We are providing We are committed We are building and contributing to to operating the resilience in our assets safe and sustainable airport sustainably and transitioning transport systems and reducing our to a low carbon future HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED environmental HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED THIS GOAL IN 2017: footprint THIS GOAL IN 2017: • Delivering new infrastructure that HOW WE HAVE SUPPORTED • Building resilience in our assets encourages sustainable transport THIS GOAL IN 2017: and operations through our options including bike riding as well • Incorporating sustainability policies, planning, design and procurement as increased pedestrian access; and practices and targets into our processes to ensure we are • Consideration and use of low carbon business processes; adapting to the impacts associated and recycled content materials for • Establishing and maintaining with climate change; and road projects. an environmental strategy and • Setting a carbon reduction target management system; and and reducing our operational • Developing and implementing carbon emissions, including the a waste reduction strategy through adoption of renewable energy. prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse initiatives. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 5 Focusing on the issues that matter Each year we conduct a materiality review with OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS consideration of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 DIRECTLY ACTIVE INTERNAL guidelines. This process makes AFFECTED INTEREST sure we remain focused and report on those issues that are of most importance to • Community • Media • Employees our stakeholders and greatest in immediate • Industry bodies vicinity of the relevance to our business. airport • Industry This year we considered • Investors associations materiality in the context • NSW and • Airport business Commonwealth of global trends, the United partners government Nations SDGs and our business • Airport users agencies strategy. Issues have been • Community identified and prioritised and local based on engagement government with our key stakeholder • Tourism bodies groups including investors, customers and Sydney Airport employees. MATERIAL TOPICS Our review found most of our material issues remain largely unchanged from 2016. Other issues such as human rights are of increasing priority. This year, we have chosen to consolidate our material issues into high‑level material topics as demonstrated in the table below. Where applicable, more information on our material topics can be found within our 2017 Annual Report. Operational efficiency Access to and from Customer Environmental and continuous the airport experience management improvement Customer Fair and ethical Sustainable Aircraft noise privacy business operations procurement Business continuity Future capacity Cyber security Safety and resilience of the airport Diversity and Health and Climate change Security inclusion wellbeing Community Employee engagement and attraction and Human rights investment retention 6 1 Sustainability at Sustainability Sydney Airport governance 2 Responsible business We have developed a governance framework to guide our sustainability journey. The Safety Steering Committee, Sustainability Steering Committee and Diversity and Inclusion Council are all led by our Chief Executive Officer and include our Executive Leadership Team. These committees provide governance on our programs and initiatives, updating the Board and its subcommittees on progress and performance. The Committees provide regular updates on progress and performance to the Board and its sub committees. 3 Planning Our Board’s Safety, Security and Sustainability Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities with regard to safety, security and sustainability, and to monitor business performance against our sustainability commitments. The Committee’s charter provides further details on it’s objectives and functions. The charter for the future can be viewed on our website. Further detail on our corporate governance framework can be viewed in our 2017 Corporate Governance Statement, available on our website. 4 Sydney Airport Limited Board Supporting communities Responsible for corporate governance policies and risk management including those relevant to sustainability Board Safety, Security and Sustainability Committee 5 Other Assists the Board to fulfil responsibilities relevant to relevant to safety, security and sustainability information Sustainability Steering Committee, Safety Steering Committee, Diversity and Inclusion Council – Executive Leadership Team Develop, update and oversee implementation of Sydney Airport’s safety, sustainability, diversity and inclusion strategies Sustainability Diversity and Work, Health Working Group Inclusion Working and Safety Staff (staff) Group (staff) Committee Develop and Develop and deliver Identify and monitor deliver employee employee diversity work, health and sustainability and inclusion safety risks and programs and programs opportunities projects in workspaces SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 7 Stakeholder engagement We recognise each of our stakeholders has different interests, needs and interactions with the airport. An overview of our stakeholder engagement in 2017 is outlined below, together with the key issues that were raised by stakeholders. AIRPORT USERS PASSENGERS While airport users include numerous EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS stakeholders, our primary focus Service quality is on engaging with passengers. Terminal ambience and presentation METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT Passenger and staff processing Monthly passenger satisfaction surveys Passenger experience Quarterly internationally benchmarked passenger Safety and security satisfaction surveys Wayfinding Ongoing tracking and analysis of customer Services and amenities feedback through all channels, including social Accessibility to airport media platforms and website Provision of services and facilities for people Competitions requesting ideas for improvement with special needs Real-time reportable notification system for service requests Radio and print advertising Connections newsletter (quarterly) Digital engagement including website, app and messaging platforms Definitions Airport business partner includes airlines, tenants, service providers and border and government agencies that we work with on a day-to-day basis. Airport users include passengers, meeters and greeters and airport workers. 8 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport AIRPORT BUSINESS PARTNERS AIRLINES 2 Responsible METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Monthly Airline Operators’ Committee Airline engagement business Quarterly Industry Consultative Forum Service quality and value Ongoing airline satisfaction surveys Passenger experience Quarterly Common Use Terminal Equipment Safety and security User Board Efficiency of the airport Quarterly Airport Emergency Committee Allocation of assets Daily communications as part of operational management Team responsiveness and availability Consultation 3 Real-time reportable notification system for Planning service requests Understanding product and brand requirements Ramp Safety Committee Operational effectiveness and responsiveness for the future Baggage Handling Forum Preventative and reactive maintenance Frequent operations bulletins Future growth of the airport BORDER AGENCIES 4 METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Supporting communities Daily communications as part of operational Forecast passenger numbers (from daily to five week management look ahead) Weekly planning and facilitation management review Operational planning and staff rostering arrangements Bi-annual border agency operational and customer Planning and status of project implementations focus area review (e.g. deployment of automated SmartGates) Ongoing strategic airport management meetings Anticipated operational challenges, expected Bi-annual National Passenger Facilitation Committee meetings impacts and contingency plans in place Industrial action management plans 5 Other Passenger feedback Safety and security information RETAIL BUSINESS PARTNERS METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Daily communication as part of retail Service quality to the passenger, providing value operations management and choice Regular retailer meetings and reviews on a regular Service quality business-to-business basis at store level and with senior management Terminal presentation Quarterly food safety testing for all food and Passenger experience beverage retailers Safety and security Quarterly price comparison audits against key Sydney CBD retailers and dining precincts Product offering, including product pricing, choice and value Retailer forum four times per year Services and amenities Monthly retail customer experience scorecard prepared for each terminal Ongoing tracking and analysis of customer feedback through all channels, including Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, WeChat and website SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 9 Stakeholder engagement EMPLOYEES METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Consultative groups as required Developing capability Six-weekly Safety Committee Health and wellbeing Monthly staff newsletter Safety and security Quarterly staff briefings Employee engagement Rebranded user-friendly intranet Reward and recognition Monthly Service Star program Information sharing Employee recognition program Career opportunities Half-yearly performance reviews Improving diversity and flexibility Ongoing staff bulletins and emails Ongoing team meetings Cross functional team social interactions Diversity and inclusion working group Learning and development working group Leadership and management development program COMMUNITY AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Quarterly Sydney Airport Community Forum Aircraft noise impacts and implementation of the Half-yearly Planning Coordination Forum Commonwealth Government’s noise sharing policy Annual community update in local newspapers Upgrades to the airport road network Regular website updates Improvements to public transport and active transport access Letterbox flyers Planning and development in areas around the Ongoing local council briefings airport that could affect airport operations Consultation processes as part of major Protection of Sydney Airport’s prescribed airspace development plans and master planning New air services to Sydney Sentiment survey Investing in the community Partnerships with local councils Environmental issues in the community Master plan consultation Safety and security Major Development Plan (MDP) consultation Connections newsletter (quarterly) INVESTORS METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Annual General Meeting Corporate strategy Bi-annual financial results announcements Financial performance Investor roadshows, meetings and conferences Operational performance ASX releases including monthly traffic statistics Growth opportunities Website (with a specific section for investors) Traffic growth Investor days Capacity and investment Stakeholder/investor emails and webcasts Corporate responsibility Investor presentations and fact sheets Sustainability performance Safety and security 10 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport TOURISM BODIES, INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS AND ADVOCATES METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Attendance at relevant overseas delegations Ongoing participation in tourism events and Growth in visitation to Sydney Expansion in air freight to and from Sydney and NSW 2 Responsible partnerships as part of a collaborative effort Sustainable growth in aviation to attract airline services and visitors to Sydney Safety and security business Regular meetings NSW AND COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENTS AND AGENCIES 3 METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Regular meetings and briefing with relevant Upgrades to the on and off airport road network Planning agencies and elected representatives including: for the future Improvements to public transport and active – the National Passenger Facilitation Committee; transport access – International Air Services Negotiation meetings; – government meetings regarding the Future Implementation of the National Airports Freight Policy; and Safeguarding Framework – Tourism Access Working Group Planning and development in areas around the Daily communication with Airservices Australia airport that could affect airport operations Protection of Sydney Airport’s prescribed airspace Growth in visitation to Sydney 4 Supporting Airfield operations Safety and security communities MEDIA METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS 5 Other Airport tours Tourism growth Media releases Growth strategy Proactive outreach Operational issues information Responses to specific requests Corporate responsibility, in particular community Airport access and 24-hour on-call media phone engagement Media events and press conferences Investment in road, terminal and airfield improvements Airport regulations Financial performance Safety and security INDUSTRY BODIES METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS Regular and ongoing meetings with relevant Adequacy and quality of airport investments organisations, including the Department of to provide capacity to meet demand and Infrastructure, Regional Development and Cities, customer expectations Civil Aviation Safety Authority, Airport Coordination Airport prices and service quality Australia, WorkCover, Office of Transport Security, Productivity Commission and the Australian Airport processes regarding passenger and staff Competition and Consumer Commission safety and security Airport operational regulations and requirements SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 11 2017 sustainability performance Each year we set annual public commitments and a corresponding business-wide program of work to support their achievement. Many of our commitments are medium and long term in nature and we are on track to complete these within the time frames we have set. Progress made against the commitments set in our 2016 Sustainability Report are outlined below. Responsible Planning for Supporting business the future communiACHIEVEMENT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS  100% achieved  >50% achieved COMMITMENTS THAT ARE 100% ACHIEVED ` Continued development of the safety risk profile ` External compliance audit of the safety management system ` Implementation of airside driving awareness e-learning module ` Continued delivery of Safe SYD and Secure SYD awareness campaigns ` Continued management of cyber security risks and certification of our ISMS to ISO 27001 standards ` Delivered business ethics training for our employees and enhanced governance of our refreshed Code of Conduct ` Introduction of new tools and intranet functionality to enable increased cross functional collaboration ` Established a Diversity Council and delivered improvements in gender diversity. Delivered programs focused on cultural awareness and improved outcomes for Indigenous communities ` Defined our service delivery paradigm ` Ongoing initiatives to support the physical and mental health of our people ` Improved participation rates in workplace giving and volunteering ` Established a learning and development council ` Delivered and embedded leadership and management modules ` Became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact ` Continued to work cooperatively with stakeholders on a range of business resilience exercises ` Completed a resilience benchmarking study COMMITMENTS THAT ARE MORE THAN 50% ACHIEVED AND ONGOING ` Delivery of safety leadership training for people managers ` Continued implementation of the enterprise-wide Safety Management System and enhanced performance reporting including the use of lead indicators ` Implementation of airside driving management system ` Enhanced security systems including upgrading CCTV and access control ` Designed customer service training for frontline teams ` Leveraging our online learning system ` Delivery of a supplier engagement strategy as part of our Sustainable Supply Chain Management Program 12 Responsible Planning for Supporting 1 Sustainability at business the future communiACHIEVEMENT  100% achieved PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE Sydney Airport  >50% achieved  <50% achieved COMMITMENTS THAT ARE 100% ACHIEVED ` Completed an elevated pedestrian and cycleway at T1 International 2 Responsible ` Created an expanded car park at T1 International including the installation of a rooftop solar array ` Widened Qantas Drive business ` Launched a new digital platform including website ` Launched a wayfinding service accessible from a smart device ` Continued roll out of new wayfinding and e-directories ` Completed a benchmarking study of the terminals against the Green Star rating scheme ` Integrated online reporting on the passenger experience for employees ` Reviewed the customer survey framework and identified opportunities to improve our approach ` Recertified customer service standards through the Customer Service Institute of Australia ` Established baseline targets for our airline partner KPIs 3 Planning for the future COMMITMENTS THAT ARE MORE THAN 50% ACHIEVED AND ONGOING ` Creation of an additional exit lane and replacement of Cooks River Avenue traffic signals with a free-flowing upgrade ` Continued upgrade of the baggage handling system including the installation of more energy efficient motors ` Increased automation of passenger facilitation in the check-in halls and at the borders ` Completion and publication of terminal design guidelines ` Continue to encourage sustainability principles to be embedded into retail fit-outs ` Continue to encourage healthy eating and lifestyle choices in our terminals 4 Supporting communities COMMITMENTS THAT ARE LESS THAN 50% ACHIEVED AND ONGOING ` Delivery of a ground power and pre-conditioned air improvement program ` Delivery of gate lounge redevelopments at T1 International ` Delivery of the Airport Collaborative Decision Making Framework Responsible Planning for Supporting 5 Other business the future communiACHIEVEMENT information  100% achieved SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES  >50% achieved  <50% achieved COMMITMENTS THAT ARE 100% ACHIEVED ` Delivered a refreshed community investment strategy including a roll out of a corporate volunteering program and delivery of a ‘Swim Smart’ education campaign in collaboration with Surf Life Saving Sydney ` Maintained Level Three Airport Carbon Accreditation and assessed timing and business case for progressing to Level Three+ COMMITMENTS THAT ARE MORE THAN 50% ACHIEVED AND ONGOING ` Continued to support airlines and deliver necessary infrastructure as they increase aircraft size and upgrade their fleet to quieter and more fuel efficient aircraft ` Continued to implement energy and carbon reduction projects to reduce Sydney Airport’s carbon footprint ` Finalised the waste and resource recovery assessment and commenced implementation of feasible initiatives COMMITMENTS THAT ARE LESS THAN 50% ACHIEVED AND ONGOING ` Implement a refreshed community engagement and consultation strategy ` Undertake a review and update Sydney Airport’s Environmental Management System to align with the updated AS/NZS ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems – Requirements with guidance for use SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 13 Responsible business We strive to be ethical, responsible and transparent in how we do business. “A responsible business starts with our people. A safe, secure and sustainable business empowers our people to do the right thing as we work together to create long-term value.” Hugh Wehby, Chief Operating Officer SAFETY PEOPLE Lost time 94% 37.9% incidents 1 5 of employees attended Code of Conduct Female briefing sessions 5 employees 3 in 2016 Lost time injury Aviation frequency rate 2 safety hours Information 38.9% 87.5% Security Management 5.0 8,255 Female managers of employees enjoy working System (ISMS) certified to ISO 27001 3.3 in 2016 at Sydney Airport standard 73% Passenger Total Recordable incident rate 3 Injury Frequency NEW INTERNAL Rate 4 RECRUITS EMPLOYEE 0.97 15.0 RECRUITMENT of procurement 50% 34.4% spend assessed for compliance 1.12 in 2016 with Supplier FEMALE Code of Conduct 6 1 The number of work-related injuries that result in at least one full day or shift being lost after the day in which the injury or illness occurred. 2 Lost time injuries per one million hours worked, incurred by employees. 3 Number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers. Excludes medical conditions and in flight medical incidents. 4 Represents the number of medical treatment injuries (MTIs) and lost time injuries (LTIs) per million hours worked. 5 This is calculated based on our total workforce, including those on extended leave at the time of the training. 14 6 We took a risk-based approach to our assessment, focusing on areas of our supply chain that we believed posed the greatest risk. 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting communities SAFETY 5 Other Our approach Our Safety Steering Committee, chaired by the We are committed to ensuring the highest levels CEO and comprising all members of the Executive information of safety across all of our operations, making it integral Leadership Team, meets every second month. to all aviation and non-aviation activities. The Committee oversees the implementation of our SMS and monitors safety performance across Our safety objectives are to: the organisation. • Comply with both workplace and civil aviation safety legislation and standards; We encourage the reporting of incidents, hazards and near-misses and when necessary undertake • Strive for an accident free workplace and apply best investigations to understand root causes. This includes practice principles; assessing the need to introduce measures such as injury • Involve Sydney Airport employees and other prevention programs, manual handling training and/or stakeholders in the decision-making process through engineering and construction controls. We recorded effective consultation; and 5 Lost Time Incidents in 2017. These were largely manual • Ensure that all Sydney Airport managers and team handling injuries resulting from our baggage handling leaders take responsibility for all aspects of safety operations. We have continued to deliver an injury as an integral part of their role. prevention program for our baggage handling services To achieve our objectives, our Safety Management team which includes a combination of engineering System (SMS) provides a risk management framework controls and people resilience measures. aligned to the AS/NZS 4801 standard, where we We routinely assess the integrity of our SMS through systematically identify, assess and manage foreseeable internal audits and management reviews of our systems aviation-specific safety issues as well as work, health and practices. This year we have also engaged an and safety risks. Our SMS meets the requirements external consultant to review our SMS to objectively of the Civil Aviation Safety Regulation 1998 Part 139, assess our systems against legal compliance Civil Aviation Safety Authority Circular 139.16 and Work requirements and our safety risk profile. Health and Safety Act and Regulations (NSW) 2011. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 15 Responsible business SAFETY Our Corporate Safety Improvement Plan (CSIP) outlines Our safety performance initiatives to be implemented to continuously improve 2014 2015 2016 2017 our approach and step up our safety performance. Implementation of our CSIP is monitored by the Safety Lost Time Injury Steering Committee on a bi-monthly basis. In 2018, our Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 1 CSIP will aim to: Employees 5.5 2.4 3.3 5.0 • Enhance our focus on critical safety risks; Service providers 2 – 7.2 6.8 4.7 • Increase operational ownership of safety at all levels Total Recordable Injury of our organisation; Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 3 • Enhance our ability to measure and report safety Employees 16.4 9.6 17.6 15.0 performance; and Service providers – 19.8 21.2 19.4 • Simplify and further embed safety systems and processes. Passenger Incident Rate 4 1.95 0.96 1.12 0.97 Airport Safety Week The theme for the 2017 Airport Safety Week, held in November, was One Airport, One Team. We hosted our first Sydney Airport Safety Expo as part of the week, with stalls highlighting key airport and aviation safety topics. The Expo included presentations and competitions, and was attended by Sydney Airport staff and our airport community partners. In addition to the Expo, more than 60 Sydney Airport employees, as well as representatives from many of our airport partners, participated in the National Foreign Object Debris (FOD) Walk, with a particular highlight being a joint FOD walk by the Qantas and Sydney Airport teams at our T3 Domestic terminal. A successful emergency exercise was also conducted in collaboration with State emergency services to test our response capabilities against the Airport Emergency Plan. 1 Lost time injuries (LTIs) per one million hours worked. An LTI is a work-related injury or illness that results in at least one full work day or shift being lost after the day on which the injury or illness occurred, incurred by employees and service providers. 2 Service providers (including cleaning, security, kerbside management, waste management, parking and trolleys and bussing) engaged by Sydney Airport. Reporting frameworks were put into place in 2015, and hence data is not available for previous years. 3 TRIFR represents the number of medical treatment injuries (MTIs) and lost time injuries (LTIs) per million hours worked. An MTI is a work-related injury or illness that requires treatment by a medical practitioner and does not result in lost time, but can result in restriction of work duties, incurred by employees and contractors. 4 Passenger incident rate is the number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers. Medical conditions and in-flight medicals are excluded from this rate. 16 1 Sustainability at SAFETY Sydney Airport Safety Leadership Roadmap It will cover: We recognise leaders and managers of our business • Work health and safety; are integral to our safety culture and ensuring safety systems are truly integrated into their areas • Terminal operations safety incident reporting and medical events; 2 Responsible of responsibility. To support them, we delivered • Development, construction and property safety a training program for our people managers in 2017. incidents and reporting; business The training seeks to: • Retail tenant safety incident reporting; • Enhance knowledge of safety accountabilities • Security incident reporting, audits and investigation; and Sydney Airport’s SMS; and • Improve the use of Sydney Airport’s safety systems • Airfield operations safety incident reporting, and tools; including wildlife strikes. • Build knowledge by conducting on-the-spot investigations and safety conversations; and The platform is expected to be completed in 2018. 3 Planning • Role-model safety behaviours with regards to hazard Aviation safety and incident reporting, risk management and the With a large number of stakeholders operating at the for the future early actioning and investigating of safety incidents. airport, we recognise that consultation with our aviation partners is essential to ensure the safety of the airfield Integrated Safeguard Platform is maintained and continually improved. In 2017 we started developing an online platform that In 2017 our aviation safety program focused on: will improve lead and lag indicator reporting and enhance • Improving airside driving behaviours such as wearing tracking and monitoring of corrective actions associated with incidents, near misses, workplace inspections seatbelts, adhering to speed limits and improving 4 situational awareness of aircraft movements; Supporting and audits. The platform will provide a whole-of-business • Improving communication of risk factors on the approach to safety management, with mobile capabilities ramp through education, stakeholder forums and communities to capture near real-time data points. engaging with frontline staff; • Active hazard monitoring and identification; and • Management of FOD across the airfield. 5 Other information SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 17 Responsible business SAFETY FOD management vehicle registrations, driver training and assessment FOD on the airfield can cause significant damage as well as to monitor unsafe driver behaviours. Further to aircraft, posing a significant safety risk. In 2017, e-learning courses for airside driving will be developed we implemented a new FOD Management Strategy in 2018 as part of our efforts to continually improve with revised procedures, and purchased additional driver standards. FOD management equipment such as magnetic bars Safety on construction sites on our sweeper trucks to remove smaller metal items. We ensure that all of our construction contracts stipulate We also implemented a deep clean program to remove safety requirements. Our Project Compliance Team dirt and grease around bays that can contribute to the is responsible for conducting inspections across all airport accumulation of FOD and installed new FOD Station construction project sites including the airfield, terminals, signage across our terminals. landside roads, car parks and hotel sites. The primary In conjunction with our airside partners, regular FOD function of the team is to educate, monitor and report walks are conducted to create awareness across the on safety, security, environment and quality compliance airport. This initiative creates awareness that FOD to safety regulations, Sydney Airport standards and management is a community responsibility. We also contractual requirements. The team takes a collaborative conduct weekly inspections, with any identified approach with contractors, teaching them about the materials reported and removed. intricacies of working in a live and operating airport In 2017, a total of 30 tonnes of FOD were collected environment and the importance of managing project from the airside precinct. Following the introduction risks beyond their worksites. This ensures that disturbance of the new FOD strategy, weekly inspections recorded to passengers and airport operations is minimised. reductions in the number of locations where FOD Our Project Compliance Team undertake daily required attention, and there was a tangible reduction inspections of project sites. During inspections in the FOD identified around the aprons. improvement opportunities are raised, with the on-site Airside driving contractor taking responsibility to remediate any areas of non-compliance. Compliance data is collected To promote safe airside driving behaviours and on site and analysed routinely to identify opportunities awareness of general airside safety requirements, for continuous improvement. we developed an airside driving awareness course in 2017. Developed in consultation with our airside FOD management continues to be a focus for partners, the course was voluntary during 2017, airfield and apron-interfacing construction projects. but will become mandatory from January 2018. Continuous collaboration between project managers, The training forms part of our new Airside Driving contractors and the airfield operations team enables Management System, an integrated online interface FOD management to remain at the forefront for airfield for Sydney Airport and our airside partners to manage and apron construction projects. Passenger safety Ensuring a safe and enjoyable passenger experience is a top priority for Sydney Airport. Our Project Compliance Team routinely inspects our terminals and grounds for faults and hazards. An app developed in 2017 was used whilst undertaking inspections to enable for the faster close out of any faults and hazards identified. We continue to monitor passenger incidents monthly and take proactive steps to address any items in the terminals that may impact the passenger journey. One of our new FOD management sweeper trucks. 18 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport SECURITY We work closely with our airport business partners and requirements are a part of aviation security. to ensure we are meeting all regulatory obligations The guide also explains what employees need 2 set out in the Aviation Transport Security Act 2004 to do in the event of a security incident. and the Aviation Transport Security Regulations 2005. We focus on maintaining a strong security culture In broad terms, our program sets out the airport’s Responsible by investing in regular staff security awareness security context, mitigation measures and emergency programs. All Airport Security Identification Card business and contingency plans. We undertake regular reviews (ASIC) holders are required to complete a test of our plans, with any updates requiring approval from to obtain or renew their card. A new security the Department of Infrastructure, Regional Development awareness campaign, incorporating the ‘Secure and Cities. SYD’ brand, was launched in 2016. This is supported We coordinate the management of aviation security by a national aviation security awareness strategy 3 with other parties, including Commonwealth agencies called Airport Watch, which takes a community that have responsibilities for or are connected with approach like Neighbourhood Watch programs. aviation. We have prepared a security guide for all It focuses on identifying, reporting and resolving Planning airport employees that summarises their roles and suspicious activity in real-time. responsibilities and explains why certain procedures for the future OPERATIONAL RESILIENCE As Sydney Airport is a critical piece of national and emergency response, with Sydney Airport partnering infrastructure we need to ensure our facilities are resilient with state emergency response organisations, our 4 and can continue to operate under a range of different partner airlines and ground handlers. We also promote Supporting circumstances. Our Airport Emergency Plan details our an open and transparent approach to the management holistic approach to incident and emergency management of the Airport Emergency Plan via a quarterly Airport communities in accordance with the International Civil Aviation Emergency Committee. The Committee is attended Organisation and Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority by airport stakeholders and emergency services, providing regulations and standards. an opportunity for the airport community to collaborate In light of recent world events, our Airport Emergency on best-practice approaches to incidents and emergency Plan was reviewed and updated to better align with management. This ensures lessons learnt from activities community and stakeholder expectations. As part and incidents are managed and acted upon efficiently and effectively. 5 of this review: • Additional airside and landside procedures were Other information finalised, enhancing Sydney Airport’s emergency response capabilities; • A major review into emergency egress and evacuations was completed for the T1 International terminal; • International and domestic terminal emergency response plans were updated ahead of fire safety related activities and testing planned for 2018; and • ‘Go kits’ were issued to our key operational staff providing a range of equipment to assist in the hours following a major incident or emergency. These updates were completed in consultation with major agency stakeholders. We will continue to assess local and global events to ensure our policies and procedures are updated when required. We continue to regularly test our plan through a variety of modular activities including audits, desktop exercises, drills, and full-scale emergency training exercises. These activities promote a cross-functional approach to incident SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 19 Responsible business ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Governance This includes raising concerns anonymously as set out Our Board and Executive Leadership Team are responsible in our Whistleblower Policy. for governance at Sydney Airport. We have established Anti-corruption and anti-bribery a corporate governance framework to help deliver on our strategic priorities and objectives. An overview As part of our updated Code of Conduct, we have of our governance framework and corporate governance introduced an enhanced Gifts and Entertainment performance can be viewed in our 2017 Corporate Policy. Our policy requires all entertainment invitation Governance Statement, available on our website. requests to be approved by our General Counsel and Company Secretary. Clear guidance is provided in our Code of Conduct Code of Conduct on when an event or function will not In 2017 our Board adopted a refreshed Code of Conduct. be approved. In addition, our Code of Conduct sets Our refreshed Code, an overhaul of our previous out expectations with regards to accepting of gifts. document, has nine focus areas including: All gifts must be declared to the Manager, Corporate • Promoting a safe, healthy and secure workplace; Governance and held on our gift registry. • Behaving professionally and lawfully; Sydney Airport does not make donations to political • Avoiding real or apparent conflicts of interest; parties or candidates for elections. However, like many • Avoiding inappropriate business dealings; other large organisations, we do pay to attend events • Ensuring a fair and competitive workplace; organised by political parties or events at which a political • Respecting others; representative may be speaking. Our Code of Conduct • Maintaining and protecting private and sets out requirements with regards to political donations. confidential information; • Upholding securities exchange requirements; and Tax transparency • Protecting Sydney Airport’s assets. As an ASX listed company, we strive to be open and transparent in all our dealings with investors, the public Company-wide small group briefings on the Code of and other stakeholders. As part of this commitment, Conduct were completed during the year, and a new online we voluntarily adopted the Tax Transparency Code induction program was created for non-executive Directors in 2016 and publish an annual Tax Governance and new employees. From 2018, an employee declaration Statement. This statement seeks to provide a greater of compliance with our Code of Conduct will form part understanding of our tax structure and tax governance of our annual employee performance review process. policy. You can view our Tax Governance Statement for Procedures are in place to report and investigate the period ended 31 December 2017 on our website. suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct. MANAGING CYBER SECURITY We recognise that data and information, in all its forms, We apply our enterprise-wide risk management framework needs to be protected from unauthorised access, usage to identify, assess, control and manage information security and transmission. We have established an Information risks. We have commenced integrating information Security Management System (ISMS) certified to the ISO security into contracts and are conducting security 27001:2013 standard, enabling us to implement a proactive compliance reviews of vendors, projects and solutions. approach for managing and continuously improving Measurable objectives are being monitored and third-party our information security program. The ISMS provides assessments are periodically conducted to keep track the vehicle to protect the confidentiality, integrity and of our cyber risk management maturity. availability of critical information assets in three key areas. Technology People As cyber-attacks become more sophisticated, the We have delivered a range of training and awareness challenge of responding to them effectively becomes programs to best prepare our staff for the various ways ever more complex. We are continuing to enhance our systems and data could be maliciously accessed. technology to strengthen our security controls to detect We undertake drills to test the effectiveness of our awareness and respond to cybercrimes. Technologies like intrusion program and look for ways to continuously improve. prevention systems, anti-virus and endpoint protection, Process and tools for extensive logging and monitoring enable us to proactively prepare for threats and pre-empt the A governance structure is in place to manage and consequences of cyber-attacks. These technologies are maintain the ISMS. The Information Security Forum (ISF) implemented using recognised industry benchmarks, is composed of senior-level representatives from various supported by enterprise-wide security policies, verified business units to address and manage risks. Each by an audit regime, and continuously improved member of the ISF champions activities to implement to respond to our security risk profile. risk treatment plans in their business areas. 20 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport CUSTOMER PRIVACY Sydney Airport collects, analyses and uses relevant restricting access and data leakage, and monitoring customer information to offer a wide range of products intrusions are continuously being improved. We regularly 2 and services. We recognise the need to implement review our Privacy Policy to ensure it remains relevant safeguards to protect confidentiality and accuracy. and ensure it is accessible to our customers at key We are committed to being transparent on how points of communication. Requirements to uphold customers’ information is used and the controls in place compliance with the strictest standards of privacy Responsible business to ensure we maintain customer privacy. and confidentiality are embedded in our contractual agreements with suppliers as well as in our employee We use a combination of security controls, technical awareness campaigns. solutions, internal processes and user awareness to ensure protection of our customers’ information. Security We have prepared a mandatory data breach notification controls in the form of policies such as our Privacy Policy, plan to complement our existing data breach incident management plan, that takes account recent changes 3 and procedures, define the overarching principles and practices for protecting information. Technical solutions to the Privacy Act. Planning LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE for the future At Sydney Airport, we recognise our people are fundamental to our ongoing success. We’re committed OUR VALUES to building and maintaining a high performance culture that supports our people to reach their potential. Our values drive our organisational culture, underpin how we interact with each other and our stakeholders, help us to deliver on our vision and 4 Supporting Sydney Airport’s people strategy provide a framework for how we make decisions is based on the “right” approach: at Sydney Airport. communities ` Identify the right people; ` Develop the right capability; Integrity and openness ` Demonstrate the right behaviours; and Acting honestly and openly to achieve ` Deliver the right outcomes. corporate and social objectives The airport provides employment for approximately 30,900 people across 800 businesses, Safety and security Delivering the highest levels of safety 5 Other of which we directly employed 441 people and security as of 31 December 2017. Sydney Airport workforce Excellence information Striving to deliver an outstanding airport 2017 2016 experience through operational efficiency, superior customer service and innovation Total workforce Permanent full-time 387 373 Teamwork Permanent part-time 26 18 Fostering a collaborative and supportive Fixed term full-time 24 26 work environment that values diversity Fixed term part-time 4 1 Age (years) Creativity and flexibility 18 – 34 103 96 Working with our partners to achieve superior business outcomes 35 – 52 261 246 53 – 69 77 76 Sustainability More detailed information on our employee profile Responsible growth through balancing can be found within the Performance Data section social and environmental needs with corporate objectives of this report. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 21 Responsible business LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE Our employee recognition scheme allows people A diversity and inclusion working group has been to acknowledge, recognise and thank their colleagues for formed comprising 25 people from across the business demonstrating our values through their actions at work. to focus on the three priority areas. The working group Staff can nominate anyone in the organisation, with are meeting on a bi-monthly basis and an action plan nominees recognised at quarterly staff briefings. This will be finalised in early 2018. year 109 recognitions were given to 84 of our people. Flexible work The scheme provides new opportunities to Whilst we are working to enhance our flexibility offering, recognise the benefits of cross-collaboration and our current policies and programs include: the importance of our values-based culture, to drive • Our Flexible Work Policy has four types of flexibility operational performance. available: flexible start and finish times, part-time Diversity and inclusion work, job sharing and working from home when appropriate; We strive to ensure a supportive and collaborative work environment that celebrates diversity and recognises • A variety of leave options including a parental leave the value of differing ideas, thinking and perspectives. program and the option to purchase an additional Our definition of diversity and the commitments two weeks’ of leave per year; and we have made are outlined in our Diversity Policy, • Access to technology allowing employees to work available on our website. remotely across the airport and at home as appropriate. This year we established a Diversity and Inclusion Council We also have a policy to support employees who which meets on a quarterly basis and is chaired by the may be experiencing domestic and family violence. CEO. The Council oversaw the development of a Diversity The policy provides employees with access to additional and Inclusion Strategy to inform our approach. leave to manage legal matters, moving house or other associated appointments without using annual leave. OUR DIVERSITY AND Gender equality INCLUSION STRATEGY As a signatory of the Australian Institute of Company Directors “30% club”, we have set a goal of 30% Creating an inclusive culture female representation for our Board and management. Demonstrating leadership and establishing targeted In addition, we continued to work towards our policies and programs that foster a respectful and targets to increase female representation at Sydney inclusive culture Airport, both in terms of overall staff numbers and within our Generation Y population. We have made Demonstrate leadership across improvements in relation to gender diversity, with our the airport community female representation increasing 1.5% to 37.9% in 2017. Our female managers account for 38.9% of all managers. Proactively leading by example and collaborating To support our diversity improvements during the year, with our business partners to support a diverse 50% of our new recruits were female. and inclusive airport We continue to demonstrate our commitment to gender equality each year by reporting to the Attract, develop and retain Australian Gender Equality Agency. You can view a diverse workforce our latest report on our website. Supporting a diverse workforce to drive creativity and innovation Female representation 2014 2015 20161 2017 % % % % Reflect our diverse customer base and community Senior executive 44.4 40.0 33.3 27.3 Celebrating Sydney Airport’s diversity and Senior manager 20.0 35.5 41.4 48.3 providing opportunities to under-represented Middle manager 41.4 37.9 n/a n/a groups in our community Manager 16.7 27.6 n/a n/a Other manager n/a n/a 35.5 36.5 We also conducted a diversity and inclusion survey Technical 5.1 6.4 8.0 8.1 to determine the key areas of interest and priorities Professional 40.4 40.5 42.0 43.2 for our people. Based on the feedback from our people, Administration 88.6 90.6 94.3 92.3 we have prioritised three areas: Specialist 20.0 25.0 n/a n/a • Raising awareness on diversity and inclusion; OVERALL 30.8 33.8 36.4 37.9 • Making our workplace more flexible; and 1 In 2016 we reassigned categories to align more closely with • Making our workplace more inclusive and free from WGEA reporting. The ‘Middle Manager’ and ‘Manager’ categories were combined to create an ‘Other Manager’ category. bullying and harassment. The ‘Specialist’ category was removed with results divided across a number of other categories. 22 1 Sustainability at LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE Sydney Airport Cultural diversity Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people as well We recognise the need to have a workforce that reflects as play a role in increasing awareness of Indigenous heritage and culture. our customers and the vibrant community in which we operate, and are committed to recruiting and We have an existing partnership with the CareerTrackers 2 Responsible retaining a culturally diverse workforce. Indigenous Internship Program, an organisation We established our baseline ethnicity dataset in 2016 that creates internship opportunities for Indigenous business to better understand the cultural diversity of our university students. This year we hosted our second workforce. This year, our staff spoke 35 languages and intern, who worked with our People and Performance had a collective 34 countries of origin. This research has team. We also continued to support the Clontarf informed our understanding of our workforce, and our Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation established approach to fostering the benefits of diversity across to help Indigenous boys complete high school. the organisation. Throughout the year we celebrated this diversity and Engaged people 3 We conducted a comprehensive employee opinion Planning promoted a better understanding of different cultures survey in 2017 to seek feedback from our people. through events such as Harmony Day, where our Significant improvements had been achieved since for the future employees came together to share dishes from a range the previous survey in 2015, with scores in 11 of the of cultures. 15 categories increasing, and all 15 categories scoring in the high zone (above 75%). This compared to 10 high Indigenous Australians zone categories in 2015. We increased our focus on the support we provide for Indigenous Australians during the year. We aim Our people described our culture as positive, dynamic to contribute to better socio-economic outcomes for and improving. The survey highlighted their commitment 4 Supporting communities 5 Other information Supporting Indigenous boys to finish high school Over the last year we formed a partnership with the Clontarf Foundation which will support 24 Indigenous boys to complete high school at the Endeavour Academy in Caringbah. We’ve hosted some of the boys at the airport on airside tours, giving them a behind the scenes experience and insight into the vast array of job opportunities available at an airport. Sydney Airport staff and Clontarf boys also took part in a volunteer day for Conservation Volunteers Australia at Kamay Botany Bay National Park. Student Keiran Fields said, “I really enjoyed spending time with the Sydney Airport staff volunteering at Kamay National Park. The experience of helping maintain the park, hearing from the local Aboriginal people and also mingling with Sydney Airport staff was very valuable for me. I have just graduated from Endeavour Sports High in the Clontarf program so the opportunity to learn about the different jobs at Sydney Airport whilst being outdoors and giving back to the local community and environment was a great one for me.” Clontarf Foundation CEO Gerard Neesham said, “These opportunities have the potential to be life changing for many of these boys because it builds their confidence, sense of self-worth and gives them something to aspire to.” SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 23 Responsible business LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE to delivering a quality customer experience, working MAINTAINING PHYSICAL HEALTH collaboratively, understanding and respecting the needs of stakeholders, taking pride in workplace safety ` Free health checks, seated massage and vaccinations; and security and acting in accordance with our Code ` Ergonomic assessments and massage therapy; of Conduct. ` Health subsidy for boot camps, yoga, pilates, swimming, remedial physiotherapy and sports registrations; Improving flexibility, streamlining systems and ` Free onsite yoga; processes, continuing to build a culture of collaboration ` Membership of the bicycle network, offering on-site staff and ongoing development capability will be areas workshops, insurance and bike maintenance services; and of focus in the year ahead, as we respond to areas ` Sponsorship and support of events such as the Ride to Work Challenge, City to Surf and Sydney to Wollongong for improvement identified in the survey. bike ride. Health and wellbeing We are committed to keeping our people safe and MAINTAINING MENTAL HEALTH healthy, both in the workplace and at home. Our Passport to Health program offers our employees ` Mental health awareness training; a range of services and programs to support their ` R U OK Day office activities; emotional, physical and physiological wellbeing. ` Employee Assistance Program; and ` Sydney Hairport Movember team. In 2017 we continued to deliver health and wellbeing initiatives to support our people. These included: • Managing fatigue and ensuring healthy sleep; SUPPORTING WORK-LIFE BALANCE • Building mental resilience and coping with stress; • Maintaining a work life balance; and ` Flexible work arrangements; ` Parental leave for both primary carer and secondary carer; • Physical exercise with participation in the Sun-Herald ` Additional “lifestyle” leave available; and City2Surf. ` Introduction of paid Domestic Violence leave. Sessions were held face-to-face and supported by online apps. SUPPORTING THE COMMUNITY ` Payroll giving program; ` Volunteering program for employees including leave; and ` Office events supporting community campaigns and charities. Sustainability heroes This year we ran a competition and asked our people to identify ways that Sydney Airport could become more sustainable. We received over 90 ideas ranging from energy efficiency, health and wellbeing outcomes for employees, initiatives to enhance the passenger experience, as well as sustainable transport and community development ideas. A shortlist was presented to our Executive Leadership Team and whilst we have committed to considering all ideas that were put forward, we chose our “People’s Choice” winner by an employee poll. Our winning entry was an electronic approval process which could save up to 40 realms of paper per year. Promotional poster drawn by Mia Barker, aged 10, daughter of Sydney Airport’s Head of Sustainability. 24 1 Sustainability at LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE Sydney Airport Organisation development as leveraging project opportunities to build skills Our commitment to people includes developing the and capability; and • Leadership and management modules: topics right capability. As a result, learning and development continued to be a key element of our people covered included safety leadership, managing 2 change, strategic planning, coaching and Responsible strategy in 2017. We focused on upskilling our people through a range of opportunities, to encourage our feedback. The sessions allowed for stronger cross business employees to strive for excellence as part of our high collaboration, reflection and practice of the skills performance culture. learnt and were focused on senior leaders and managers. In 2017 we introduced Certificate IV Our development programs implemented during the in Aviation Supervision to develop our frontline year included: supervisors, a first for Australian aviation • Online programs: modules include governance and and airports. compliance training such as our safety induction, as well as courses to improve communications, This year our L&D program also included the 3 implementation of a Leadership 360 feedback tool. Planning presentation skills, project management, Microsoft This helped define clear expectations of our leaders Office, coaching and management; and provided specific insights to enable targeted for the future • Skills based training: face-to-face training individual development. The 360 tool will be used programs including communications, excel and more broadly in 2018. systems training. Participation was based on job requirements and manager recommendations; Demonstrating our commitment to developing our people, we continued to look for opportunities to fill • On-the-job learning: a key activity was our Lunch roles internally. During 2017, 34.4% of opportunities and Learn series, with monthly sessions held on topics of interest from across the business, as well were filled internally. This was down slightly from 2016 4 due to the mix of roles we recruited. Supporting communities CLIMATE CHANGE This year, we have given consideration to the Financial been prepared to meet the Airport Carbon Accreditation Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Level 3 requirements. Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework and are Strategy committed to improving our disclosure on our climate strategy. Sydney Airport has undertaken a risk assessment to 5 Other identify climate-related risks and opportunities over the Governance short, medium and long term. We have undertaken this information Sydney Airport’s Board has the highest level of assessment in accordance with our enterprise-wide risk oversight and responsibility for the impacts and management framework. opportunities associated with climate change. Key risks identified through this process relate to physical Our Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) has oversight risks associated with climate change including increased of all risks (including new and emerging) across the temperatures, rainfall and flooding. Changes in these company. Our enterprise-wide risk register (which conditions may result in increased pressure on utilities, includes climate risk) is reported to ARC twice a year. as well as technology and operational interruptions. The register details risk ratings and the controls in place to manage these risks. We are taking the following actions in response to the risks and opportunities posed by climate change: Our Board’s Safety, Security and Sustainability Committee • Minimising our own operational carbon footprint (SSS) has responsibility for reviewing and approving our as well as the carbon footprint of the airport: climate-related objectives and strategy, including targets. − Setting carbon reduction targets and The SSS oversees the implementation of our Climate Risk implementing demand management strategies; and Adaptation Plan and an operational risk report (which includes climate risk) on a quarterly basis. − Continuing to identify opportunities to increase the use of renewable energy; Management’s Sustainability Steering Committee − Transitioning to low carbon equipment, is responsible for the implementation of the airport’s e.g. electric vehicles; and Climate Risk and Adaptation Plan. A detailed report − Working collaboratively with airline customers outlining the plan’s progress is prepared for the to improve airport efficiency and reduce Committee on an annual basis. The Steering Committee land-based fuel burn. also oversees the airport’s carbon reduction plan that has SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 25 Responsible business CLIMATE CHANGE • Engaging with stakeholders: Risk management − Engaging on a regional basis on climate-related Sydney Airport’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework risks affecting the Sydney area. Sydney Airport (ERM) sets out the foundation to facilitate our risk is involved in the National Climate Change management process. Our ERM has been based on the Adaptation Research Facility’s project aimed Australian Standard Risk Management–Principles and at improving understanding of climate change Guidelines AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009. Further details on adaptation in the infrastructure sector. We are also our risk management approach can be found in our 2017 participating in the ‘100 Resilient Cities’ project. Corporate Governance Statement. • Building resilience in our assets and operations: Metrics and targets − Considering climate change as part of our planning, design and procurement processes; We use a range of metrics to assess the impacts of − Implementation of the airport’s emergency climate-related risks and opportunities on our business plan during adverse weather events activities. We have established a carbon reduction to minimise disruptions; and target, and track and publicly disclose our Scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions in our Sustainability Report. — Undertaking a flood study to build further resilience and upgrading of our technology Further information on how we are reducing our carbon to ensure ongoing stability, reliability footprint can be found in the Supporting Communities and security. section of this report. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Procurement Policy sets out core principles, This year we took a risk-based approach and assessed and the expectations of Sydney Airport’s people, 33 suppliers against the expectations in our Supplier when conducting market engagements and in general Code of Conduct. These 33 suppliers accounted for dealings with suppliers. The Policy is underpinned approximately 73% of the airport’s total third-party by our Strategic Sourcing Framework (SSF) and spend across both capital and operational expenditures. Sustainability Supply Chain Management Framework The main spend categories covered by these suppliers (SSCM) and includes guidance on: included construction services, security services • Strategic sourcing planning; and equipment, facilities, assets and maintenance • Value for money; services, civil and asphalt works. We worked • Procurement method; proactively with these suppliers to close out any non-conformances identified. • Fairness, openness, transparency and probity; • Sustainable procurement; We are looking to build sustainability principles • Risk management; into project decision making and the procurement of products and materials. For example, as part • Delegation and approval; of our road upgrade works for the Domestic precinct • Contract documentation and management; and we selected LED overhead lighting and used locally • Supply chain. sourced and recycled content construction materials Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out how we manage where possible. We also selected LED lighting for our our relationship with suppliers, and the minimum upgraded car park at the International precinct and expectations we have set. It is linked to other corporate energy efficient screens for our variable messaging policies such as our Diversity, Human Rights, Safety systems that are being installed at both the Domestic and Environmental Policies. Key areas include safety and International precincts to optimise traffic flows. and wellbeing, corporate governance and ethics, Supporting small business suppliers workplace conditions and human rights, environmental This year we joined the Business Council of Australia’s management and community. voluntary Australian Supplier Payment Code, a voluntary Our Code outlines our governance framework, including program designed to support the long-term viability undertaking site based reviews of supplier operations, of small businesses. We commenced its implementation working with suppliers to remediate if operations have by analysing and defining those small businesses that the fallen short of expectations, continuing to evaluate airport currently engages. We will further develop our performance, reporting annually in our sustainability internal processes to ensure we comply with the Code report, and invoking audit and review powers to address by December 2018, ensuring any small business we do specific concerns. business with is paid for services provided within 30 days. 26 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport HUMAN RIGHTS This year we prepared a Human Rights Policy aligned We developed a human rights program to implement with principles set out in the International Bill of Human our Human Rights Policy. This has involved updating 2 Rights and the International Labour Organisation’s our Supplier Code of Conduct and assessing our Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights supply chain for human rights risks. We have assessed at Work. We also joined the United Nations Global suppliers’ compliance with our updated Code as part Compact, and have committed to align our business of our broader supply chain assessment. Responsible business practices to 10 guiding principles on human rights, In the coming year, we will deliver awareness and labour rights, environmental protection and measures training programs for our people, in particular those to fight corruption. who purchase products or services, develop labour For us, respecting human rights means: contracts and manage third parties. We will also seek • Providing a workplace that is free from to work more collaboratively with the airport community 3 discrimination, regardless of race, colour, religion, on human rights issues, in particular where we can play sex, language, political or other opinion, national a role in raising awareness or disseminating information on modern slavery or human trafficking matters. Planning or social origin, birth or other status; • Delivering a safe, healthy and secure workplace; and Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out our governance for the future • Ensuring our people and suppliers have access processes for addressing human rights risks in our to fair remuneration, collective bargaining, freedom supply chain, should they be identified. We also have of association and work life balance. grievance mechanisms in place to report concerns, including anonymously via our whistleblower reporting facility, SafeLanding. 4 Supporting communities 5 Other information SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 27 Planning for the future We are planning for the long term to support passenger growth and deliver a step change in customer experience. “The airport of the future will anticipate a customer’s every need, providing a truly seamless experience. Responsive infrastructure design and a culture of innovation will set us apart as we plan for this exciting future.” Stuart Rattray, General Manager Technology 3 TOTAL PASSENGERS APPROX. ADDITIONAL NEW ONLINE 43.3m PARKING SPACES APPLICATIONS (AT T1 INTERNATIONAL) LAUNCHED 3.6% from 2016 8.2m SESSIONS ON OUR WEBSITE 1,000 APPROX. BIKE 6.7m STORAGE SPACES (AT T1 INTERNATIONAL) 100 INVESTMENT IN CAPACITY AND SERVICE VISITORS IMPROVEMENTS ACCESSED to 31 December 2017 OUR FREE WI-FI $428.5m CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (MAX SCORE: 5) INTERNATIONAL DOMESTIC including the $34.5m OVERALL 4.01 3.95 acquisition of the Ambience 4.17 4.11 Ibis Budget hotel Cleanliness 4.24 4.14 Wayfinding 4.17 4.09 28 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 New bike storage facilities at the Supporting T1 International terminal. communities ACCESS TO AND FROM THE AIRPORT 5 We recognise that ground transport is a critical step terminals. We widened Qantas Drive to three lanes Other information in the passenger journey and are committed to making in each direction between Robey and O’Riordan it easier for airport users to travel to and from the streets, while RMS reconfigured lower O’Riordan and airport. We’ve collaborated with the NSW Government Robey streets to a one-way pair system. This reduced to deliver an integrated ground transport plan that complexity and provided more green light time for includes a joint $500 million investment program. traffic at these key intersections. At the T1 International Now four years into this five-year program, we’ve terminal, we opened a new exit road from Marsh Street staged work to enable ongoing airport operations and to Centre Road, allowing over 600 vehicles/hour minimise disruption to airport and commuter traffic. quicker access to Centre Road in the peak period. The program is on track to be completed almost a year In addition, we provided traffic leaving Arrivals Court ahead of schedule. and Departures Road with a new dedicated exit The key objectives of the plan are to: road to Airport Drive, removing the traffic signals at Centre Road. We also expanded a car park at the • Create better roads in and around the airport precinct; T1 International terminal, providing 1,000 additional • Improve access to the terminal precincts; parking spaces. • Improve drop off and pick-up facilities; We’ve built a shared pedestrian and cycleway • Increase train services to/from the airport; at the T1 International terminal for safer and easier • Increase bus services between the airport and access to the airport. We also introduced dedicated greater Sydney; and pedestrian paths throughout the precinct to make • Improve pedestrian/cycle access into and around it safer and easier to get around the airport by foot, the airport precincts. reducing vehicle/pedestrian conflicts. To support this In 2017, together with the Roads and Maritime and promote more active transport, we also installed Services (RMS) we worked to reduce congestion at new bike storage facilities for 100 bicycles and will be the approaches to the International and Domestic upgrading change room facilitates in the coming year. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 29 Planning for the future ACCESS TO AND FROM THE AIRPORT We welcomed the NSW Government’s 2017 announcement We are implementing a plan to reduce delays by: to increase the number of train services to Sydney Airport, • Accommodating up to 30% more drop off vehicles adding 200 additional services per week in November. per hour through the creation of an overflow There are now 10 trains per hour stopping at the two drop-off facility; airport stations during peak times, 25% more than • Implementing additional pick-up facilities; in 2013. We also welcomed the NSW Government’s • Heightened operations management through our commitment to introduce new and expanded bus Landside Operations Centre, working closely with routes to the airport. NSW’s Transport Management Centre to ensure We continue to assess and plan for peak periods optimal performance of the road network both to minimise disruptions for passengers arriving on and off airport; and at the airport. • Encouraging Sydney Airport staff to use alternative forms of transport and arrive out of peak times. DELIVERING CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE Providing a superior airport experience for our airline management (CRM) technology to manage interactions and passenger customers remains a key focus for and ensure each customer’s requirements are managed Sydney Airport. by the team member with the most relevant expertise. The CRM application also helped us to better manage Airport user satisfaction and track trends in interactions with business partners Our goal is to ensure passengers have a seamless and such as airlines, government agencies and tenants. enjoyable journey through Sydney Airport. We recognise We conducted more than 14,400 passenger surveys this requires collaboration between all airport business through an external provider to seek feedback partners and stakeholders. Our Customer Charter on the quality and range of services that we provide outlines our commitment to this, and is available at the airport. Our survey asked passengers to rate on our website. their experience using a five-point scale, where one Our customers can provide feedback in a number is very poor and five is very good. In addition to this of ways, listed on the ‘Contact Us’ page of our website. self-commissioned survey, we also participated in the These options include our centralised phone number Airport Council International’s Airport Service Quality ‘133 SYD (793)’, email, letter and an online contact Benchmarking Program, allowing us to assess our form. We streamlined our customer service approach performance against other similar airports worldwide. during the year, using the latest customer relationship Our volunteer Airport Ambassadors offer a warm welcome to visitors. 30 1 Sustainability at DELIVERING CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE Sydney Airport Overall Passenger satisfaction 1 Through our partnership with BizTweet, we have launched 2014 2015 2016 2017 real-time flight updates via Facebook Messenger and Twitter to passengers. The application provides flight Terminal and gate information, plus departure and arrival times 2 T1 International 3.85 3.83 3.89 4.01 for domestic and international flights. We also launched Responsible T2/T3 Domestic 3.85 3.85 3.91 3.95 indoor Baidu Maps at our T1 International terminal and Google Maps across all three terminals. Sydney Airport business 1 Passenger ratings provided as part of monthly passenger satisfaction surveys. These ratings are based on one question is the first organisation outside greater China to introduce in the survey: “Thinking about your whole experience at Sydney Baidu Maps, a mobile mapping application which includes Airport today and taking into account all aspects of your time here, how would you rate your experience at Sydney Airport indoor view perspectives. Both Baidu and Google maps today?”. 2014 and 2015 data represents T2 only. 2016 and 2017 feature gates and check-in counters, amenities and represent a domestic aggregate of T2 and T3 ratings due to the acquisition of T3 in late 2015. retail outlets across multiple levels and make it easier for passengers to navigate the terminal. 3 These initiatives were supported by our broader PASSENGER SATISFACTION DRIVERS Planning technology strategy, which has delivered upgraded The feedback from our surveys told us the key free Wi-Fi, self-service check-in, automated bag drops, for the future drivers for overall passenger satisfaction were: SmartGates, real-time queue measurement displays and multilingual wayfinding e-directories. ` Terminal ambience; ` Airport cleanliness; In 2018, we’ll begin the first phase of our biometrics ` Gate comfort; roll out – the ultimate objective of which is to allow ` Bathroom presentation; and passengers to navigate through departure and arrival ` Wayfinding. processes using facial recognition, without the need 4 to present their passport at each processing point. Our Customer Experience Committee (CEC) is chaired Airline partner satisfaction Supporting communities by Sydney Airport’s General Manager Corporate While day-to-day interactions respond to most Affairs and meets on a monthly basis to review operational needs of our airline business partners, passenger feedback. The Committee ensures passenger they also complement a more formal consultation satisfaction drivers are being used to inform our framework. This framework helps prioritise our business decisions, particularly when identifying new infrastructure projects and other business initiatives areas for investment. This year, we delivered a number of capital improvements including gate lounge and and ensures our airline partners remain informed and engaged from project inception through to delivery. 5 bathroom upgrades, a new kids’ zone as well as Other an expanded and enhanced multi-faith prayer room. Central to our framework is the measuring of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which form part information Our customer management system and complaint of our International Aeronautical Services Agreement. handling framework is certified to the International The KPIs reflect our airline customers’ business needs Customer Service Standard 2015-20, which is designed and track performance across a range of areas relating to assist organisations in the development, measurement to enhancing the passenger experience, improving and improvement of an effective customer service operational outcomes and streamlining facilitation. management system. As part of the certification, our systems are externally audited on an annual basis The KPI framework provides an objective and reliable to ensure we continue to comply with the standard. data source to guide our investment in infrastructure, resource allocation and other solutions to improve Enhancing the digital customer journey safety, efficiency and passenger experience across We recognise technology and innovation present the key areas of baggage, check-in, security and many opportunities for airports to improve border facilitation, and bussing. operational efficiency and enhance the passenger To measure the satisfaction of our airlines, we conducted experience and we strive to be a leading airport in ongoing airline surveys as well as regular ‘pulse check’ innovation. To harness these opportunities we focused meetings throughout the year. on collaborating with stakeholders to provide a seamless journey from the ‘home to the gate’ during the year. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 31 Planning for the future ENHANCING SERVICE DELIVERY AND IMPROVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY We work collaboratively with our airline partners We have also been improving reliability by upgrading to improve service delivery and enhance the customer the system with new motors that are 30% more energy experience. Whilst airline On Time Performance (OTP) efficient. Having commenced this process in 2015, we at Sydney Airport is influenced by many factors, are about 50% through our motor replacement program. we understand that it is a key business driver for our partners and proactively identify opportunities for Airport Collaborative Decision Making improvement. Ensuring passengers, bags and aircraft We have commenced implementation of Airport are all facilitated as efficiently as possible is a key Collaborative Decision Making (A-CDM) to enable enabler of OTP. our airport operators, airlines, ground handlers and air navigation service providers to share information Baggage handling system and better use of our resources as demand continues improvement program to increase. Our Baggage Master Plan outlines a holistic strategy For example, we are working with airlines and ground to increase capacity and build resilience in our Baggage handlers to create shared situational awareness Handling System. Our approach has focused on the to inform our decision-making processes as we manage use of technology and performance data to drive the allocation of aircraft bays. This initiative uses continuous improvement. an online platform to enhance sharing of performance One of our key focus areas in 2017 was reducing the data between stakeholders to target a flight arrival number of bag jams which can cause delays. We have or departure within +/5 minutes of the scheduled time. tuned our control systems to ensure bags stay adequately Ultimately this helps us more efficiently move aircraft spaced, particularly where conveyors merge together. into place for their arrivals and departures and supports Mechanical changes were also made to conveyors and our goal of improving on time performance for our chutes where it was found that the bags were jamming airline customers. While the key objective of introducing due to “catch points”. This led to a secondary benefit for A-CDM is to reduce delays, it also offers secondary handlers, by reducing the need for manual intervention benefits such as reduced operational costs and carbon and the associated risk of manual handling injuries. emissions, and improved air quality. 32 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport MEETING FUTURE CAPACITY Aircraft movements and passenger numbers have grown steadily over the past two decades. In 2017, international passengers grew by 7.2% while domestic passengers grew by 1.6%. This was driven primarily by new routes and services by existing airlines, upgauging aircraft, and the commencement of services by new carriers. We have delivered a number of improvement projects to meet future growth during the year. Refer to our 2017 Annual Report 2 Responsible for further information. We plan for our longer-term future growth through our Master Plan, a five yearly process that targets the delivery business of a better passenger experience as well as improved safety, capacity and efficiency. Our current Master Plan covering the period to 2033 can be found on Sydney Airport’s website. We have commenced preparation of a new Master Plan, due to be finalised in early 2019. In addition to our master planning process, we continued to identify and investigate opportunities to meet future capacity requirements. We are currently considering the feasibility of various options for expanding capacity across both our Domestic and International precincts. 3 Planning Passenger movements 2017 Domestic International Total for the future Passengers Arriving 13,693,868 8,019,149 21,713,017 Departing 13,658,357 7,931,309 21,589,666 Total 27,352,225 15,950,458 43,302,683 Arriving Departing Total Total % 4 Supporting Region Asia-Pacific 5,679,621 5,607,790 11,287,411 70.8 Americas 1,246,328 1,242,823 2,489,151 15.6 communities Europe 227,193 228,186 455,379 2.9 Middle East 785,537 776,058 1,561,595 9.8 Africa 80,470 76,452 156,922 0.9 5 Total 8,019,149 7,931,309 15,950,458 100.0 Aircraft movements Other information 2014 2015 2016 2017 Domestic 173,160 178,999 179,436 180,788 Regional 58,240 58,823 60,813 59,423 International 65,316 64,303 70,409 73,641 General Aviation 23,176 25,149 27,231 26,096 Freight 7,298 7,727 8,548 8,572 Aircraft Movements Total 327,190 335,001 346,437 348,520 Cargo (tonnes) 411,084 443,390 477,243 414,124 1 1 Data sourced from Bureau of Infrastructure, Transport and Regional Economics. As data was not available at time of reporting November and December 2017 monthly tonnage figures are estimates only. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 33 Supporting communities Working with our communities to protect the environment and create shared value. “Our success goes hand-in-hand with the success of our community. We strive to ensure the people of Sydney and NSW are proud of their airport, and continue to benefit from our sustainable growth.” Sally Fielke, General Manager Corporate Affairs $4.9m invested in communities FACE-TO-FACE YOUNG INDIGENOUS CARBON INTENSITY CO 2 COMMUNITY PEOPLE SUPPORTED PER PASSENGER ENGAGEMENT 42 27.2% in education 200 approx. and training hours opportunities reduction since 2010 INCREASE IN NEXT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SOLAR GENERATION AIRCRAFT FOCUS AREAS INSTALLATION 550kW SINCE 2013 FOCUS AREAS (%) 2017 334% at T1 International Arts and culture Social welfare Health 51.77 10.21 10.16 Emergency relief 9 REDUCTION IN 25% Economic development 8.17 WATER USE 15% Education and young 6.39 people of international scheduled passenger flights were quieter, Environment 3.63 more fuel efficient next generation aircraft Other 0.67 per passenger since 2014 34 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future Sydney Airport have partnered 4 with Conservation Volunteers Supporting Australia on the Kamay Botany Bay Regeneration Project since 2014. communities COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 5 Fostering positive, strong, long lasting relationships Throughout the year we engaged with a wide range Other information with all those who might be affected by the decisions of community and stakeholder groups in a variety and activities related to the airport’s operation of ways. These are outlined in the stakeholder is a priority for us, and we acknowledge this is vital engagement section of this report. to our long-term success. The Commonwealth and NSW governments have a joint We implemented an ongoing community and framework to protect the prescribed airspace around stakeholder engagement program to ensure we: Sydney Airport, and ensure that the highest aviation • Keep the local community, their elected safety standards are maintained. We continue to work representatives and other stakeholders informed with community stakeholders and local governments about the operation, proposed development and to ensure proposed building and development future planning of the airport; activities comply with this framework. This included • Work cooperatively with Commonwealth and NSW ensuring obstacles such as trees were appropriately governments and agencies, local governments pruned or, where necessary removed. We continued and other organisations that have roles and to engage with local governments and the community responsibilities involving or affecting Sydney Airport; about any planned activities required to maintain the • Communicate and make available relevant and prescribed airspace. accurate information about Sydney Airport to the community and other stakeholders in a timely manner, in a form that is easy to understand and in a way that reaches all stakeholders; and • Listen to and genuinely consider feedback from the community and other stakeholders and, where possible, resolve issues of concern. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 35 Supporting communities NOISE AND AIR QUALITY For most of the world’s major airports, aircraft noise Noise from ground-based activities at Sydney Airport is a long-standing issue. We acknowledge that aircraft is managed separately to noise generated by aircraft noise disturbs local communities and are committed taxiing, landing, taking off or in flight. Ground-based to working with government and our airline partners noise is generated from a number of sources on the to manage and mitigate this impact, especially in those airport including: areas close to the airport and under flight paths. • Road traffic; Airservices Australia is the government agency • Construction and development activities; responsible for managing the airspace around Sydney • Operation of audible alarm and warning systems; Airport, including the design of flight paths and • Operation of plant and equipment; the management of noise generated from aircraft • Aircraft engine ground running; and approaching or departing the airport. • Operation of aircraft auxiliary power units (APUs). We prepare an Australian Noise Exposure Forecast (ANEF) and a range of other noise measures and We have a ground-based noise management strategy publish them in our Master Plan. The ANEF is used that sets out operational rules designed to maintain primarily by local councils when making planning and safety standards, comply with relevant noise standards development decisions in areas affected by noise around and practices, and minimise noise impacts. During the the airport. You can view our ANEF on our website. reporting period, a total of four ground-based noise complaints were received. Our environment team The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has investigated all ground-based noise complaints and set progressively stricter noise standards for civil aircraft to where appropriate implemented additional controls reduce the noise impact airports have on local communities. to reduce community impacts. New generation aircraft such as the Airbus380 and Boeing787 are much quieter than the aircraft they are We believe a key component of effective airport replacing, and we work with our airline partners to noise management is communication and community accommodate more of these aircraft at the airport by engagement. We actively participate in a number upgrading our airfield and terminals. Since 2013, we’ve had of community forums that focus on operations a 334% increase in the number of new generation aircraft at Sydney Airport and aviation more generally. These coming to the airport, and in 2017 25% of all international include the Sydney Airport Community Forum which aircraft movements were new generation aircraft. provides advice to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and aviation authorities on abatement of noise and other related environmental issues. The noise profile of new generation aircraft is significantly lower than legacy aircraft, with B747 being around twice as loud as Our Environmental Strategy includes a commitment B787 and A350. to undertake air quality monitoring within the airport 100 to ensure we provide relevant stakeholders with Noise level (EPNdb) ~50% 98 reduction in an up-to-date picture of local air quality and to assist perceived noise 96 in planning for future airport growth. As part of this, 94 ~99db we are installing an air quality monitoring station at the 92 ~94db airport. This station will be used to better inform future ~90.5db 90 management and mitigating actions. B747–400 A380 B787/A350 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY Our community investment strategy is underpinned by three pillars: LIVE LOCAL We are committed to being a good neighbour and playing a role in keeping our local communities connected, healthy, vibrant and thriving. LEADING AND LEARNING We support initiatives that provide opportunities for our leaders of tomorrow. We support those to be the best in their field, with a particular focus on supporting minority groups and reducing inequalities in our community. SYDNEY’S AIRPORT We are working to link the airport to broader Sydney by supporting tourism generating initiatives that benefit the city and local communities and by developing a sense of place at Sydney Airport that reflects our city 36 1 Sustainability at INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY Sydney Airport Community investment 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total community investment ($m) 1.48 2.59 3.29 4.951 2 Responsible business 1 In 2017, Sydney Airport contributed $2.163m including management costs to the community, as verified by LBG AU & NZ. In addition, Sydney Airport provided free advertising space to community partners to the value of $2.297m and facilitated additional contributions to the community from other sources such as customers and employees to the value of $487,607 which we refer to as ‘leverage’ within the LBG framework. 3 Planning for the future Supporting women in sport 4 Supporting In early 2017 we became a foundation partner of the AFL Women’s GWS GIANTS team in the league’s inaugural season. We were communities proud to stand alongside the women’s team as they forged new frontiers in their sport. As Foundation Partner we also supported GIANTS Care to help young people and families in Western Sydney access health and education services. 5 Maddy Collier, 22 played in the GWS Women’s team and was part of a GIANTS Care Stand Tall workshop hosted by Sydney Airport for Other year 11 Kingsgrove High School female students. The workshop focussed on career journeys and information pathways, experiences, insights, challenges and words of wisdom, including from former Sydney Airport Managing Director and CEO Kerrie Mather. Maddy Collier moved from Nowra to Sydney for a job, and for the football. She began playing football for the University of NSW and became a priority pick for the GWS GIANTS inaugural women’s team in 2016. She said it was one of the best moments of her life so far as it felt like a lot of hard work had come together. “Playing in the inaugural season has been an incredible experience that I wouldn’t trade for the world” Maddy said. “To be a part of something in its infant stage is quite special and I’m so excited about how much I have learned and will learn from this opportunity.” In 2018 Maddy’s goal is to be more confident within herself so that she can play to her full ability. “And off-field, I am aiming to get outside of my comfort zone so that I can grow more as a person. I am also planning to show more appreciation and produce less waste!” SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 37 Supporting communities INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SPORT Promoting Indigenous artwork at the Airport 11 local sporting clubs Sydney Airport commissioned a major public art project in a landmark Including: partnership with the Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA). The partnership 2 fitness camps will create opportunities for the public to engage with exhibitions and with 546 members programs at the MCA. Departing passengers will also soon enjoy a newly commissioned artwork, United Neytions by indigenous artist Archie Moore, due to be unveiled in the T1 Marketplace in 2018. EDUCATION The artwork engages with the relationship of Indigenous and non-Indigenous 25 Australia, bringing all groups together. Archie said, “It is said Australia is now a multicultural country, yet we have always been a multicultural country.” Moore’s art will reinforce Sydney Airport’s vision is to deliver a unique, environmental world-class airport experience that sets Sydney apart. sustainability programs in schools Sydney Airport has also supported the local arts community through a major grant from the Sydney Airport Lost Property Auction to 107 Projects, a new 1,730 creative community hub at Green Square. Our support will help house over 25 artists, creative practitioners, organisations and start-ups, enabling creative education and cultural participation for residents and visitors. students across NSW MUSIC 15,531 students access to Sydney Symphony Orchestra performances from 146 schools FUNDING CANCER RESEARCH 2 years SURF LIFE SAVING 6,350 young surf life savers trained in 15 Surf Life Saving Sydney Clubs INDIGENOUS TRAINING AND LEARNING 42 young people through the Clontarf Foundation, CareerTrackers and Inner West Council 38 1 Sustainability at INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting communities 5 Other information Surf Life Saving Sydney partnership We’ve supported Surf Life Saving Sydney (SLS) since 2001 to keep our communities and travellers safe when swimming at our local beaches. Our investment from the beginning of this 17 year partnership has included supporting the Nipper development program as well as Sydney Juniors for 15 beaches from North Bondi to Burning Palms in the Royal National Park. In 2017 we increased our investment to support the patrolling surf lifesavers, including hosting them at the airport to educate arriving passengers on swimming safely at Sydney’s beaches. Kane Hughes has been a surf lifesaver at North Cronulla beach since 1996 where he started as a nipper at the age of six. He gained his Surf Rescue Certificate at the age of 14 and qualified for his Bronze Medallion one year later at 15. The Bronze Medallion is the core element of Surf Lifesaving and encompasses CPR, defibrillation and radio training, along with practical skills such as swim and board rescues. Kane is also a Qualified Patrol Captain, Duty Officer, Inflatable Rescue Boat and Jet Ski Driver. He was one of the first lifesavers in NSW to gain the CASA licence to fly Surf Life Saving drones. For Kane, being a lifesaver means being able to enjoy the beach with friends and family. “In addition to being able to give back to the community and keep the public safe, I have had countless wonderful and unique experiences, including travelling around Australia to deliver training programs and winning an Australian Championships gold medal, to realising you have just saved the life of someone’s mother, child, or grandparent on Christmas day,” Kane said. “Being awarded the 2016 Australian Surf Life Saver of the Year was a huge honour and reflective of the opportunities presented to me by SLS, all of which would not be possible without the support of generous organisations such as Sydney Airport.” SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 39 Supporting communities MANAGING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT We recognise our need to make a contribution to addressing climate change and TOTAL SCOPE 3 restricting global temperature increases to less than 2°C as per the international EMISSIONS agreement on climate change developed at the Paris Conference of Parties in 2015 952,749 t CO e 2 (known as the Paris Agreement), and ratified by the Australian Government. We are committed to playing our role to reduce carbon emissions by participating in the Airport Carbon Accreditation program, a voluntary carbon management SCOPEscope 3 3 energyrun by the Airports Council International (ACI). The scheme has four levels scheme emissions EMISSIONS source that progress from mapping carbon emissions, reducing emissions and engaging with third parties through to carbon neutrality. This year we maintained our Level 3 Accreditation (Optimisation). The main requirements of Level 3 include: • Expansion of the scope of the airport’s carbon footprint to incorporate specific Scope 3 emission sources (including the landing take-off cycles and all aircraft ground running operations, surface access for passengers and staff);  Surface access • Submission of a verified carbon footprint including Scope 3 emission sources; – passengers and staff 40.70% • Evidence of activities to engage and assist stakeholders (such as airlines, ground  Aircraft 49.01% handlers, staff and passengers) to reduce the overall carbon footprint; and  GSE 1.62% • Continued implementation of initiatives to achieve an ongoing reduction in Scope 1  Electricity – third and 2 emissions. parties 7.65% We updated our carbon target in 2017 to achieve a 50% per passenger reduction  Waste and others 1.03% in carbon emissions by 2025 from 2010 levels. To date we have made good progress on our commitment, reducing our per passenger carbon intensity by 27.2% since 2010. We also reduced our absolute carbon emissions by 5.5% since 2010. This year we delivered the following carbon reduction initiatives: cope 3 energy USE 2017 ENERGY • Delivery of energy demand management opportunities such as lighting upgrades, issions source BY SOURCE rationalisation of air conditioning set points, a building energy optimisation program and upgrading our baggage system components such as motors and conveyor belts to more energy efficient alternatives; • Introduction of electric buses; and • Installation of our first solar installation on the top of the car park at the T1 International terminal. At peak generation, 30% of the power will serve the structure’s power demand, and 70% will be fed back into the grid for Sydney Airport’s use.  Non-stationary diesel 6.5% We are also preparing a business-wide energy strategy to ensure a systematic, best  Stationary practice approach to demand management, procurement and monitoring of energy use. natural gas 14.3%  Electricity 78.6% We use a significant amount of energy to operate our facilities, with almost 80% of our  Other 0.4% energy use arising from the purchase of electricity for heating, ventilation and cooling (HVAC) systems, lighting, baggage handling, lifts and elevators. Further information on how we are managing climate risk can be found in the Responsible Business section of this report. Carbon emissions 1 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Emissions (tCO2 e) Scope 1 2 5,024 5,349 5,746 5,826 Scope 2 3 85,425 82,999 79,898 82,062 Total Scope 1 & 2 90,448 88,348 85,644 87,888 Emissions intensity 4 (kg CO2e per passenger) 3.20 3.05 2.79 2.73 1 Carbon emissions calculated in accordance with the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2013. Excludes emissions from tenants and T3. 2 Scope 1 emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Excludes biogenic CO2 emissions. 3 Scope 2 emissions include CO2 emissions. 4 Emissions Intensity includes Scope 1 (CO2, CH4, and N2O) and Scope 2 (CO2) emissions. Passenger numbers exclude T3. 40 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT All major airports inevitably have an effect on the Our Airport Environmental Strategy 2013–2018 environment in which they operate, and we are outlines more than 100 ongoing actions and initiatives committed to working with others to ensure aviation plays its role in protecting the environment. to minimise our impact on the environment and support sustainable growth. Our strategy maps out a program 2 Responsible of works to address key environmental aspects including: Our cooperative and proactive approach to environmental management continued in 2017 as we worked with • Climate change and energy management; business regulatory agencies, airport stakeholders and our business • Water management; partners to reduce environmental impacts. • Air quality; As part of our Master Plan we prepare an Airport • Ground-based noise; Environment Strategy which provides the strategic • Ground transport; direction for the environmental performance and • Biodiversity and conservation; management of the airport over a five-year period. • Heritage; 3 The purpose of the strategy is to: • Waste and resource management; Planning • Promote the continual improvement of environmental • Soil and land management; and management and performance at the airport and build • Spills and hazardous materials. for the future on the achievements and goals of previous strategies; • Ensure that all operations at the airport are The Commonwealth Government approves our Strategy undertaken in accordance with relevant legislation and we prepare and submit an annual report that details and standards; and our progress against our commitments. • Establish a framework for assessing compliance As outlined in our strategy, we take a risk-based at the airport with relevant environmental legislation approach to environmental management and have 4 and standards. an environmental management system consistent Supporting with AS/NZS ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems (EMS) – Requirements with Guidance for communities Use. Our EMS provides the framework by which our daily environmental management can be planned, implemented and reviewed, enabling a cycle of continuous improvement. This year we undertook a review of our EMS against the updated ISO standard, and will be updating it in 2018 based on the outcomes. 5 Waste management Waste generated at the airport includes a broad range Other information of solid and liquid waste streams from aircraft servicing, food, scrap metals and litter from terminal builds and maintenance areas. Sydney Airport manages the majority of waste disposal from T1 International and the aprons, T2 Domestic and various other locations at the airport. Qantas is responsible for the management and disposal of waste from T3 Domestic and the Qantas Jet Base. We are preparing a waste management strategy to reduce waste to landfill and are investigating a range of initiatives as part of this process including: • Reclassifying certain waste as non-quarantine to allow for recycling of airside waste where possible; • Recycling of coffee grounds at our terminals; and • Improving use of existing recycling infrastructure at our terminals. New solar installation on top of the P6 car park at T1 International. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 41 Supporting communities ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Waste generation 1 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Waste to landfill (excl. quarantine waste) (tonnes) 2,552 2,369 2,611 2,851 Recycled waste (tonnes) 1,757 1,687 1,799 2,101 Quarantine waste (also goes to landfill) (tonnes) 1,195 1,268 1,330 1,486 Total waste (tonnes) 5,504 5,324 5,740 6,438 Percentage of total waste recycled 2 (%) 40.77 41.59 40.79 42.43 Total waste per passenger (kg) 0.194 0.184 0.187 0.20 1 Includes all waste generated at the airport, with the exception of waste generated on aircraft, T3, Qantas premium lounge and car parks. It also excludes construction waste. Recycled waste assumes a post collection recovery rate of 25% from the general waste stream from July 2015 to March 2016 and 30% from April to June 2016. 2 Excludes quarantined waste. Water management The airport’s recycled water treatment plant recycles sewerage from sources within the International precinct for reuse in toilet flushing and cooling towers. In late 2016, we upgraded our treatment plant by installing a second bioreactor and increasing the capacity of water that can be treated at the plant from half a megalitre a day to up to one megalitre a day. We are currently investigating the feasibility of mining sewage from the main to further increase our use of recycled water at the airport and reduce our reliance on potable water. We continued to deliver improvement initiatives during the year such as replacing bathroom equipment with more water efficient alternatives and we’ve recently upgraded our water monitoring control system to provide greater visibility of how and where we are using water across the airport. As a result of our efforts we have reduced water use per passenger by about 15% since 2014. Protecting biodiversity The Botany Wetlands consist of 11 interconnected ponds that stretch over 4km from Gardeners Road in Mascot to the northern shore of Botany Bay. The wetlands are listed as significant on the Directory of Important Wetlands in Australia. We manage the downstream sections of the Botany Wetlands including Mill Pond (southern section), Engine Pond East and Engine Pond West and Mill Stream, with these known collectively as the Sydney Airport Wetlands. Under the Airports Act 1996 these wetlands are designated as an environmentally significant area. As part of our Wetlands Enhancement Program, we’ve completed the following activities during the year: • Terrestrial and aquatic weeding; • Feral animal management; • Water quality monitoring; and • Revegetation, maintenance and monitoring of enhancement works undertaken in previous years, including maintenance of revegetation plantings. Undertaking water quality monitoring at the Botany Wetlands. 42 1 Sustainability at Performance Sydney Airport data 2 Responsible business 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 HEALTH & SAFETY Lost Time Incidents 1 5 3 3 3 5 3 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2 Planning Employees 6.5 5.5 2.4 3.3 5.0 Service providers 3 7.2 6.8 4.7 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate for the future (TRIFR) 4 Employees 19.4 16.4 9.6 17.6 15.0 Service providers 19.8 19.9 19.4 Passenger Incident Rate 5 1.95 0.96 1.12 0.97 4 Supporting Aviation safety hours 2,623 2,519 6,994 8,780 8,256 Annual wildlife strikes 6 1.5 1.7 1.5 1.8 1.9 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 communities Absenteeism rate (%) 2.4 2.0 2.4 2.8 1 The number of work-related injuries that result in at least one full day or shift being lost after the day in which the injury or illness occurred. 2 Lost time injuries per one million hours worked, incurred by employees and services providers. 5 3 Service providers (including cleaning, security, curb side management, waste management, parking and trolleys and bussing) engaged by Sydney Airport. Reporting frameworks were put into place in 2015, and hence data is not available for previous years. 4 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) represents the number of medical treatment injuries (MTIs) and lost time injuries (LTIs) per million hours worked. Other An MTI is a work-related injury or illness that requires treatment by a medical practitioner and does not result in lost time but can result in restriction of work duties, incurred by employees and contractors. 5 Passenger incident rate is the number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers. Medical conditions and in-flight medicals are excluded information from this rate. 6 Wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements. CUSTOMER Passenger satisfaction 7 International 3.88 3.85 3.83 3.89 4.01 Domestic 3.75 3.85 3.85 3.91 3.95 Ambience International 4.04 4.01 3.91 3.99 4.17 Domestic 3.88 3.99 3.98 4.06 4.11 Cleanliness International 4.11 4.07 4.07 4.13 4.24 Domestic 3.93 4.05 4.04 4.11 4.14 Wayfinding International 4.04 4.01 3.91 3.99 4.17 Domestic 3.83 3.91 3.98 4.02 4.09 7 Passenger ratings provided as part of monthly passenger satisfaction surveys. These ratings are based on the following questions in the survey: “Thinking about your whole experience at Sydney Airport today and taking into account all aspects of your time here, how would you rate your experience at Sydney Airport today?” “How would you rate the following aspects of the terminal today? i) Overall terminal presentation and ambience; ii) Cleanliness of the airport terminal; and iii) Ease of finding your way through the airport”. 2014 and 2015 data represents T2 only. 2016 and 2017 represent a domestic aggregate of T2 and T3 ratings due to the acquisition of T3 in late 2015. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 43 Performance data 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 PEOPLE Employee headcount 338 348 379 418 441 Permanent Full-time 316 324 348 373 387 Part-time 14 14 11 18 26 Fixed term Full-time 4 8 19 26 24 Part-time 2 2 1 1 4 Casual 2 0 0 0 0 Age 18–34 74 68 83 96 103 35–52 201 211 224 246 261 53–69 63 69 72 76 77 Female representation (%) 8 Senior Executive 44.0 44.4 40.0 33.3 27.3 Senior Manager 25.0 20.0 35.5 41.4 48.3 Other Manager 35.5 36.5 Middle Manager 43.3 41.4 37.9 n/a n/a Manager 18.9 16.7 27.6 n/a n/a Technical 5.0 5.1 6.4 8.0 8.1 Professional 40.4 40.4 40.5 42.0 43.2 Administration 90.3 88.6 90.6 94.3 92.3 Specialist 25 20 25 n/a n/a Overall 30.9 30.8 33.8 36.4 37.9 Total women in management (%) 26.7 32.8 36.8 38.9 Gender pay equity ratio 95.4 93.6 96.9 94.5 92.2 New hires (total) 39 55 86 87 80 Internal recruitment (%) 42.0 39.0 34.4 New hires by gender (%) Female 51.3 30.9 48.8 47.1 50.0 Male 48.7 69.1 51.2 52.9 50.0 New hires by age 18–34 20 24 44 38 39 35–52 16 27 41 46 40 53–69 3 4 1 3 1 Turnover (%) Voluntary 5.0 8.4 11.7 7.7 11.6 Non-voluntary 2.4 4.6 3.2 4.2 1.9 Training Average hours of training per employee 9.3 11.9 10.0 Parental leave Employees who took parental leave during the year 5 7 10 10 13 Employees returning to work after parental leave during the year 3 2 5 3 3 Parental leave return to work rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Number of employees taking secondary carer's leave 9 3 10 16 11 8 In 2016 we reassigned categories to align more closely with WGEA reporting. The ‘Middle Manager’ and ‘Manager’ categories have been combined to create an ‘Other Manager’ category. The ‘Specialist’ category has been removed with results divided across a number of other categories. 44 1 Sustainability at 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sydney Airport COMMUNITY Volunteer hours 252 163 % of employees participating in payroll giving 0.86 1.85 3.83 3.17 2 Community investment ($m) 9 1.484 2.597 3.292 4.948 9 Calculated and verified in accordance with the LBG AU & NZ framework. For further information breakdown of spend refer to the Supporting Communities Responsible section of the report. business ENVIRONMENT Carbon emissions 10 90,716 90,448 88,348 85,644 87,888 Scope 1 11 5,364 5,024 5,349 5,746 5,826 Scope 2 12 85,350 85,425 82,999 79,898 82,062 Emissions intensity (kg CO2 per passenger) 13 3.20 3.20 3.10 2.79 2.73 Total carbon emissions offset through Greenfleet program (tonnes CO2 e) 430 430 430 295 296 3 Planning Energy (GJ) 14 Electricity 349,159 353,481 347,439 342,421 351,696 for the future Stationary natural gas 60,961 52,775 64,804 63,422 64,298 Non-stationary diesel 25,866 28,398 24,593 27,316 29,472 Other 6,180 4,745 4,429 7,944 1,817 Total energy 442,166 439,399 441,265 441,103 447,283 Waste 15 Waste to landfill (tonnes excluding quarantine) 2,474 2,552 2,369 2,611 2,851 4 Supporting Recycled waste (tonnes) 1,592 1,757 1,687 1,799 2,101 Quarantine waste (tonnes, also to landfill) 1,592 1,195 1,100 1,330 1,486 communities Total waste (tonnes) 5,166 5,504 5,324 5,740 6,438 Percentage of total waste recycled (excluding quarantine waste) 39.15 40.77 41.59 40.79 42.43 Total waste per passenger (kg) 0.183 0.194 0.184 0.187 0.200 Water 16 Potable water consumption (KL) 562,792 671,031 507,211 600,845 5 Ground water (KL) 3,822 2,513 2,757 3,964 Water recycled (KL) 222,330 206,627 209,617 151,272 17 Other information Total water use (KL) 788,944 880,171 719,585 756,081 Percentage of total water recycled (%) 28.2 23.5 29.2 20.00 Water use per passenger (L) 27.87 30.39 23.46 23.52 Noise Ground running noise complaints 3 13 11 5 4 Breaches of the Aircraft Engine Operating Procedures 0 0 0 1 0 Environmental spills Large spills (greater than 100m2) 10 5 3 4 1 10 Carbon emissions calculated in accordance with the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2013. Excludes emissions from tenants and T3. 11 Scope 1 emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Excludes biogenic CO2 emissions. 12 Scope 2 emissions include CO2 emissions. 13 Emissions Intensity includes Scope 1 (CO2, CH4, and N2O) and Scope 2 (CO2) emissions. Passenger numbers exclude T3. 14 Energy usage and sources calculated in accordance with the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2013. Excludes energy usage by tenants an T3. 15 Includes all waste generated at the airport, with the exception of waste generated on aircrafts, T3, Qantas premium lounge and car parks. It also excludes construction waste. Recycled waste assumes a recovery rate of 25% from the general waste stream. 16 Water usage excludes T3. 17 Water recycled dropped in FY17 due to recycling water plant being closed for a number of months due to upgrade works, as well as climatic conditions. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 45 2018 commitment summary RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS NEW COMMITMENT: ` CONTINUING FROM 2017: ` Develop an enhanced safety management ` Continue development and roll out of aviation program for contractors working at safety e-learning modules for airside workers Sydney Airport ` Deliver a safety leadership training for ` Deliver an integrated safety platform to improve people management the monitoring and measurement of our ` Implement an airside driving management system safety performance ` Enhance security systems including upgrading ` Identify and develop minimum requirements for CCTV and access control our critical safety risks ` Customer service training for frontline teams ` Deliver an e-learning module on active armed ` Leverage our online learning system offender awareness ` Deliver a supplier engagement strategy ` Deliver an enhanced airside security awareness as part of our Sustainable Supply Chain program in line with new Australian government Management Program requirements ` Introduce annual employee declaration of compliance with Code of Conduct ` Develop and deliver of an employee based sustainability awareness program ` Undertake a scenario analysis to assess climate-related risks as per the Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures guidelines ` Develop and deliver of a human rights program to ensure delivery of commitments made in the Airport’s Human Rights Policy ` Conduct a full-scale emergency field exercise focusing on an aviation security related incident ` Develop a Diversity and Inclusion action plan ` Cascade engagement survey results and implement initiatives for target areas (flexibility, systems and processes simplification and continued focus on collaboration) ` Continue leadership and management development program ` Ongoing skills development to equip people for their roles 46 1 Sustainability at PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE Sydney Airport NEW COMMITMENT: ` Improve end-of-trip active transport facilities CONTINUING FROM 2017: ` Creation of an additional exit lane and 2 Responsible ` Install electronic variable messaging systems replacement of Cooks River Avenue traffic on road gantries in both precincts to provide signals with a free-flowing upgrade drivers with relevant information to guide them Continued upgrade of the baggage handling systems business ` efficiently to, from and through the airport including installation of more energy efficient motors ` Widen the entry from Marsh Street to two ` Increased automation of passenger facilitation inbound lanes to the T1 precinct in the check-in halls and at the borders ` Provide a flyover exit from Airport Drive ` Completion and publication of terminal to Arrivals Court to remove traffic weave design guidelines at approach to Departures ramp ` Continue to encourage sustainability principles ` Continue to work closely with Roads and Maritime Services as they complete the widening ` to be embedded into retail fit-outs Continue to encourage healthy eating and 3 of Joyce Drive and progress the other Airport Planning lifestyle choices in our terminals East and North works. ` Deliver a ground power and pre-conditioned ` Rollout biometrics capability at T1 International air improvement program for the future ` Deliver a Target Off Block Time (TOBT) trial ` Deliver a gate lounge redevelopment program as part the delivery of an Airport Collaborative at T1 International Decision Making framework ` Deliver an Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (ADS-B) system to improve efficiency of the airfield ` Develop and deliver an improvement plan targeting a Green Star performance rating 4 to improve operational efficiency of assets Supporting ` Develop a program to measure indoor environmental air quality within the terminals communities ` Deliver a business-wide energy management strategy SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES 5 Other information NEW COMMITMENT: CONTINUING FROM 2017: ` Delivery of an air quality monitoring program ` Continue to support airlines and deliver ` Development of a Reconciliation Action Plan necessary infrastructure as they increase aircraft size and upgrade their fleet ` Investigate feasibility of sewage mining to increase capacity for the airport’s water ` Continue to implement energy and carbon treatment plant reduction projects to reduce Sydney Airport’s carbon footprint ` Explore opportunities to increase the profile and promote the Australian arts and cultural industry ` Finalise the waste and resource recovery through our partnerships with art galleries, assessment and commence implementation museums and cultural festivals of feasible initiatives ` Target partnership opportunities with local ` Review and update Sydney Airport’s community universities and TAFE providers to support and stakeholder engagement strategy to ensure the development, education and employment consistency with the IAP2 framework opportunities for young people ` Upgrade the Environmental Management System ` Strengthen the profile of women’s sport to to align with the latest ISO14001 standards and support the empowerment of women and girls launch the new system business-wide ` Refresh Sydney’s Airport’s existing community engagement and consultation strategy to ensure consistency with contemporary IAP2 standards and practices ` Enhance measures to engage surrounding communities as part of our planning and design process, in particular on matters that may directly affect them ` Enhance and continue to work with local communities to deliver programs that deliver positive outcomes for the local environment SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 47 GRI index GRI RELEVANT SECTION/ REFERENCE DESCRIPTION COMMENTARY G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision Introduction from the Chairman and CEO maker in the organisation G4-3 Name of organisation Sydney Airport Limited G4-4 Report primary brands, products Annual Report, About Sydney Airport and services G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Sustainability Report, Corporate directory G4-6 Number and name of countries Sydney Airport operates from Kingsford of operation Smith Airport, Sydney, NSW, Australia. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Sustainability Report, Corporate directory G4-8 Markets served Annual Report, About Sydney Airport G4-9 Scale of organisation, including: Sustainability Report, Responsible business Total number of employees; – Looking after our people and 2017 Full Year Financial Report Net sales; Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity; and Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 Employee numbers, gender breakdown, Sustainability Report, Responsible business employment type, workforce by region, – Looking after our people and Performance variation in employment Data. All employees are based in Sydney. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered As at December 2017 we had 44.2% by collective bargaining agreements of our workforce covered by an enterprise agreement. G4-12 Description of the organisation’s Sydney Airport’s major suppliers supply chain include those that support the airport’s developments or deliver services to and maintenance of airport facilities. In 2017, Sydney Airport’s top supplier categories by spend were: 1. Construction services 2. Security services and equipment 3. Facilities assets maintenance services 4. Civil & asphalt works 5. Utilities – electricity/water/gas G4-13 Significant changes during the None reporting period 48 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport GRI RELEVANT SECTION/ REFERENCE DESCRIPTION COMMENTARY G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the The precautionary principle is reflected precautionary approach or principle in Sydney Airport’s approach to is addressed by the organisation risk management. Refer to the 2017 Corporate Governance Statement for 2 Responsible further information business G4-15 Externally developed economic, Sydney Airport uses the Global Reporting environmental and social charters, Initiative G4 Guidelines to develop this principles or other initiatives to which sustainability report. We participate the organisation subscribes or which it in a number of sustainability initiatives endorses including Inter Airport Environment Forum, the Airport Carbon Accreditation Program and the London Benchmarking Group. We benchmark our activities using international indices to improve our 3 performance including the Dow Jones Planning Sustainability Index, MSCI and FTSE4Good. for the future G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as Current Memberships across the company: industry associations) and national or Airport Councils International international advocacy organisations ANZ Airports ICT Forum Asia Pacific Travel Retail Association Asialink Business Australasian Investor Relations Association (AIRA) 4 Supporting Australia Arab Chamber of Commerce Australia Indonesia Association communities Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce Australian Airports Association Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) Australia China Business Council Australian Logistics Council Australia Tourism Export Council (ATEC) 5 Botany Bay Business Enterprise Centre Other Business Council of Australia Business Events Sydney CAPA – Centre for Aviation information CEDA – Centre for the Economic Development of Australia Chief Executive Women Committee for Sydney Diversity Council of Australia (DCA) Green Building Council of Australia Infrastructure Partnerships Australia NSW Business Chamber (Sydney First) Outdoor Media Association Parking Australia Property Council of Australia (NSW Company membership) Sydney Roundtable strategic partnership Tourism and Transport Forum Australia (TTF) Western Sydney Leadership Dialogue G4-17 All entities included in the organisation’s Sustainability Report, About this report consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents including indication which of these are not covered by the report SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 49 GRI index GRI RELEVANT SECTION/ REFERENCE DESCRIPTION COMMENTARY G4-18 Process for defining the report content Sustainability Report, Focusing on the and the Aspect Boundaries issues that matter G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process Sustainability Report, Focusing on the for defining report content issues that matter G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation Sustainability Report, Focusing on the for each material Aspect issues that matter G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation Sustainability Report, Focusing on the for each material Aspect issues that matter G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Not applicable provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous Not applicable – no significant change reporting periods in the Scope and from previous reporting period. Aspect Boundaries G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged Sustainability Report, Stakeholder by the organisation engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Sustainability Report, Focusing on the stakeholder groups within whom to engage issues that matter G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Sustainability Report, Stakeholder including frequency of engagement engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been Sustainability Report, Stakeholder raised through stakeholder engagement, engagement and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Sustainability Report, About this report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report The most recent previous report was the 2016 Sustainability Report. G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Sustainability Report, About this report report or its contents G4-32 In accordance option chosen for the report Sustainability Report, About this report G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to Sustainability Report, About this report seeking external assurance for the report G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, Sustainability Report, Sustainability including committees of the highest governance governance body and any committees 2017 Corporate Governance Statement responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms Sydney Airport website, About us of behaviour such as codes of conduct and code of ethics 50 1 Sustainability at GRI RELEVANT SECTION/ Sydney Airport REFERENCE DESCRIPTION COMMENTARY G4-DMA Report why an Aspect is material. Outline An overview of the process to determine management approach to reducing our material issues is outlined in the impact. Outline mechanism for evaluating ‘Focusing on the issues that matter’ section effectiveness of management approach of the Sustainability Report. Our materiality assessment involves the identification 2 Responsible and prioritisation of issues and is based on the methodology set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. business This requires consideration of the level of stakeholder concern and the current or potential impact. Our overall approach to managing our material issues is outlined in the Sustainability governance section of the Sustainability Report. The Safety, Security and Sustainability Committee together with the Sustainability Committee, Safety Committee and Diversity Council, 3 Planning are responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach including the review of performance for the future on an ongoing basis. Wherever possible our approach is to reduce any negative impacts associated with our operations and seek opportunities to enhance positive impacts. Our management approach to addressing specific material issues together with our performance can be found in the following sections: Responsible business 4 Supporting Planning for the future Supporting communities communities G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and ($m) distributed. Economic value retained Economic value generated – Revenue 1,483.3 Economic value distributed 5 – Operating expenditure (222.3) – Employee benefit expenses (57.5) Other information – Payments to providers (1,206.0) of capital – Payments to governments (8.4) – Community investments (5.0) Economic value distributed (1,499.2) Economic value retained (15.9) G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks Sustainability Report, Climate change and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Sustainability Report, Performance data organisation G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Sustainability Report, Performance data G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Sustainability Report, Performance data recycled and reused G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Environmental Strategy 2013 – 2018 pp. 14, in, or protected areas and areas of high 67-70 biodiversity value outside protected areas SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 51 GRI index GRI RELEVANT SECTION/ REFERENCE DESCRIPTION COMMENTARY G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts Environmental Strategy 2013 – 2018 pp. 14, of activities, products and services 67-70 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Sustainability Report, Performance data G4 -EN16 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 2) Sustainability Report, Performance data G4-EN18 GHG intensity Sustainability Report, Performance data G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability Report, Performance data G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Sustainability Report, Performance data disposal method G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no significant fines or number of non-monetary sanctions for non-monetary sanctions during the non-compliance with laws and regulations reporting period. GA-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Sustainability Report, Performance data hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Sustainability Report, Performance data parental leave, by gender GA-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented The WHS Staff Committee has been in formal joint management-worker health established to represent workers and and safety committees that help monitor is a key avenue of consultation in the and advise on occupational health and workplace. The WHS Staff committee safety programs reports through to the Safety Steering Committee, which is chaired by the CEO. The WHS Staff Committee has representatives from each department who meet on a regular basis to discuss safety issues, lost time injury rates and any incidents that have occurred. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Sustainability Report, Performance data occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities by region and gender G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year Sustainability Report, Performance data per employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Sustainability Report, Looking after lifelong learning that support the continued our people employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Sydney Airport requires all of its employees regular performance and careers to participate in its performance program, development review, by gender and which involves setting performance by employee category objectives and formally evaluating performance twice during the year. Our employees are also encouraged to have career discussions with their managers. In 2017, 100% of eligible employees participated in a formal performance assessment which requires performance outcomes to be documented in our performance system. 52 1 Sustainability at GRI RELEVANT SECTION/ Sydney Airport REFERENCE DESCRIPTION COMMENTARY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Sustainability Report, Looking after our breakdown of employees by employee people, Performance data category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 2 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Sustainability Report, Performance data Responsible of women to men by employee category, business by significant locations of operation G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Sustainability Report, Supporting local community engagement, impact communities Sydney Airport operates assessments and development programs a single airport and therefore this equates to 100%. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual Sustainability Report, Supporting 3 Planning and potential negative impacts communities on local communities for the future G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Sustainability Report, Responsible business assessed for risks related to corruption and – ethics and integrity the significant risks identified G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Sustainability Report, Planning for the future satisfaction – delivering customer service excellence 4 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Sydney Airport did not receive any Supporting non-compliance with laws and regulations fines or non-monetary sanctions concerning the provision and use for non-compliance during the communities of products and services reporting period. G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Sydney Airport did not receive any legal anti-competitive, anti-trust, and actions for anti-competitive, anti-trust monopoly practices and their outcomes or monopoly practices during the reporting period. A01 Total number of passengers annually, Sustainability Report, Planning for the future 5 broken down by passengers on Other international and domestic flights and broken down by origin and destination information and transfer passengers including transit passengers A02 Total annual number of aircraft movements Sustainability Report, Planning for the future by day and by night, broken down by commercial passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation and state aviation flights A03 Total amount of cargo tonnage Sustainability Report, Planning for the future A07 Number and percentage change of people Sustainability Report, Supporting our residing in areas affected by noise communities – Noise and air quality Also refer to Airservices Australia’s website for monthly noise statistics report A09 Total annual number of wildlife strikes Sustainability Report, Performance data per 10,000 aircraft movements SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 53 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited CONCLUSION Based on the procedures performed, and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material misstatements in the Selected Data Claims, which have been prepared by Sydney Airport Limited in accordance with the criteria as defined and described by management in the Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2017. INFORMATION SUBJECT TO ASSURANCE The Selected Sustainability Information, as presented in Sydney Airport Limited’s (“SYD”) Sustainability Report 2017 and available on SYD’s website, comprised the following: Selected Sustainability Information Value assured Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions for the 87,888 period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (CO2e) 1 Passenger satisfaction score 2017 – International 4.01 Passenger satisfaction score 2017 – Domestic T2/T3 (in aggregate) 3.95 Passenger satisfaction score 2016 – Domestic T2/T3 (in aggregate) 3.91 Female representation overall (%) 37.9 Waste to landfill (tonnes) 1 2,851 Recycled waste (tonnes) 1 2,101 Quarantine waste (tonnes) 1 1,486 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for SYD employees 5.0 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) for SYD employees 15.0 1 Excludes T3, refer to footnotes in Performance Data section CRITERIA USED AS THE BASIS OF REPORTING The criteria used in relation to the Sustainability Report content are SYD’s policies, procedures and methodologies as disclosed in the 2017 Sustainability Report. BASIS FOR CONCLUSION We conducted our work in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 (Standard). In accordance with the Standard we have: • used our professional judgement to plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance that we are not aware of any material misstatements in the Selected Sustainability Information, whether due to fraud or error; • considered relevant internal controls when designing our assurance procedures, however we do not express a conclusion on their effectiveness; and • ensured that the engagement team possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and professional competencies. SUMMARY OF PROCEDURES PERFORMED Our limited assurance conclusion is based on the evidence obtained from performing the following procedures: • enquiries with relevant SYD personnel, and review of selected documentation; • enquiries with relevant SYD personnel to understand the internal controls, governance structure and reporting process of the Selected Sustainability Information; • reviews of corporate documents concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across the business; • interviews with relevant staff at corporate level and service organisations engaged by Sydney Airport responsible for providing the information in the Sustainability Report; • analytical procedures over the Selected Sustainability Information; • agreement of a sample of Selected Sustainability Information to source documentation; • evaluating the appropriateness of the criteria with respect to the Selected Sustainability Information; and • reviewed the Sustainability Report in its entirety to ensure it is consistent with our overall knowledge of assurance engagement. 54 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport HOW THE STANDARD DEFINES LIMITED ASSURANCE AND MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance 2 engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance Responsible engagement been performed. business Misstatements, including omissions, are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence relevant decisions of the intended users taken on the basis of the Sustainability Report or the Selected Sustainability Information. USE OF THIS ASSURANCE REPORT This report has been prepared for the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited for the purpose of providing an assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Report and the Selected Sustainability Information and may not be suitable for 3 Planning another purpose. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report, to any person other than the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited, or for any other purpose than that for which it was prepared. Directors’ responsibility Our responsibility for the future The Directors are responsible for: Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement in relation to the Sustainability Report • determining that the criteria is appropriate and Selected Sustainability Information for the period to meet their needs; • preparing and presenting the Sustainability 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, and to issue an assurance report that includes our conclusion. 4 Report and the Selected Sustainability Supporting Information in accordance with the criteria; and Our independence and quality control • establishing internal controls that enable communities We have complied with our independence and other the preparation and presentation of the relevant ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics Sustainability Report and the Selected for Professional Accountants issued by the Australian Sustainability Information that is free Professional and Ethical Standards Board, and complied from material misstatement, whether due with the applicable requirements of Australian Standard to fraud or error; and maintaining integrity on Quality Control 1 to maintain a comprehensive system of the website. of quality control. 5 Other information D. N. Ridehalgh Partner KPMG Sydney 20 February 2018 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2017 Sustainability Report 55 WWW. SYDN EYAI RP O RT.CO M.AU
