July 31, 2018 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMITTAL Re: Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Communication on Progress (COP) From: January – December 2017 To Our Stakeholders: When Microchip Technology Incorporated (“Microchip”) joined the United Nations Global Compact (“UN Global Compact”), it was because we wanted to promote responsible business conduct, uphold labor and human rights, and continue to operate in an ethical and environmentally responsible way. In this document, our latest Communication on Progress (“COP”), we are proud to share selected examples of how Microchip has integrated these shared values in our operations, supply chain, and through our work with local communities. Since our last COP, I am happy to convey that we have integrated our acquisition of Atmel Corporation into our operations and product portfolio. Relevant aspects of this acquisition are documented and publicly available in Microchip’s most recent Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, which is available on our website at http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/2016%20Sustainability%20Report.pdf, and in our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change Survey, which for calendar year 2016 is publicly available at www.cdp.net and for calendar year 2017 will be published by the CDP in Fall 2018. Microchip’s CDP Climate Change Surveys are available in the CDP’s S&P 500 group of reporting companies. While we have always placed great emphasis on complying with applicable laws, we are also proud of the voluntary environmental and social initiatives that we undertake. We are committed to being a company in which our stakeholders can be proud, and pleased to be counted among other like-minded signatories to the UN Global Compact. Steve Sanghi Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Microchip Technology Incorporated Microchip Technology Incorporated 2355 West Chandler Blvd. Chandler, AZ 85224-6199 Main Office 480-792-7200 Fax 480-899-9210 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Microchip and its worldwide subsidiaries support human rights and social responsibility. As a semiconductor company with a global presence, we are careful to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we operate. In addition, we participate in voluntary programs like the UN Global Compact that encourage additional diligence on human rights issues. We have strong human resource policies that protect and uphold human rights, including equal treatment and freedom from discrimination, freedom of religion and expression, and others enumerated in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Microchip supports regulatory and industry-driven efforts to ensure our global staff and suppliers are treated ethically. Microchip’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code”) requires compliance with laws and ethical behavior by its employees, agents, contractors and consultants. The Code includes reporting procedures and accountability provisions that may include immediate termination of employment or business relationships at Microchip’s discretion. Microchip also shares the global concern regarding the human tragedies occurring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the desire to establish transparent supply chains free of illicit mineral trade and slavery and human trafficking. In furtherance of these aspirations, Microchip has developed publicly-facing webpages that outline our efforts and commitments. Microchip’s Code of Conduct, Conflict Minerals Program, and Slavery and Human Trafficking Statements are all accessible from Microchip’s Corporate Responsibility homepage: http://www.microchip.com/aboutus/corporate-responsibility/corporate. 2 Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Microchip is a United States-headquartered company with global operations. These operations include primary manufacturing located in the United States, assembly and test operations in the Philippines and Thailand, and engineering design centers and sales offices located around the world. Microchip complies with all legal requirements related to labor, including prohibitions on forced or compulsory labor, child labor, and discrimination. Additionally, with very few exceptions for internship-type programs in the United States, which are allowed by law, Microchip requires all employees to be 18 years of age or older. While none of Microchip’s employees are unionized, we do acknowledge the right to collective bargaining where allowed by law. We have strong employee programs to support workers and their families, including robust benefits plans and career development opportunities. Implementation The Microchip Learning Center perpetuates Microchip’s strategic and competitive culture in alignment with Microchip’s Guiding Values (http://www.microchip.com/about-us/careers/microchip-culture). In order to support our internal customers’ continuous improvement, we design, deliver, and coordinate programs using a variety of systems, methods, and tools to meet performance development needs. We believe continuous education and training are critical to maintaining Microchip’s competitive edge. Microchip invests in our employees’ future by ensuring access to our training is available in native languages and during times that accommodate our global presence and workforce. Moreover, Microchip offers our employees the opportunity to pursue relevant higher education. Microchip emphasizes our Guiding Values and ethics in our training programs, human resources policies, and our facilities operations. Learning and development at Microchip are joint efforts between employees, managers and the Global Organizational Learning and Development department. In addition to the 40 full-time and 21 part-time training professionals around the world, in 2016, 876 managers and employees were involved in delivering practical leadership and technical training to their peers. Microchip’s courses cover a range of training topics: orientation to the company, team skills, communication skills, leadership skills, technical knowledge of Microchip products applications, sales process training, computer skills, and operational manufacturing skills. We are proud to have been recognized many times for our successes and accomplishments related to our employee training programs. 3 Measurement of outcomes In addition to our nationally-recognized internal training and employee development programs, Microchip strongly supports Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) and FIRST Robotics community outreach programs in our communities. Microchip’s Gresham, OR, Fab 4 furthered its commitment to workforce training by continuing its partnership with Mt. Hood Community College to help students learn about the semiconductor industry through tours and internship opportunities. Microchip Technology (Thailand) (“MTHAI”) has received the “Thailand National Safety Award” annually from 2010 to 2017. The award is presented by the Ministry of Labor to outstanding companies in Occupational Health and Safety, Management system. Every company must pass the “Best Practice” regulation from the Thailand Labor Department. The regulation supports a safe and happy workplace for every employee in Thailand. Receiving this award means that we are the best among the best in terms of safety, health, and environment. Together, everyone at MTHAI made a major contribution to our success. In 2017 MTHAI again received the “3Rs Award” (Reduce, Reuse, & Recycle) from the Kingdom of Thailand’s Department of Industrial Works. Both of our Thailand facilities have robust recycling and reuse programs for many traditional materials, scrap electronics, and precious metals. Microchip received numerous awards throughout 2017 that recognize the dedication Microchip has to its employees, a few examples include: • Received the “American Hero” designation for 2017 through American Values Investments; • Training magazine’s Training Top 125 Award (organizations with the most successful learning and development programs in the world) – we ranked #107 in 2017; • #177 Forbes 2017 “America’s Best Employers”; • #9 Top Workplace in the Bay Area (California) by The Bay Area News Group; • #5 The Best Companies to Work for in NY – awarded by Best Companies Group, 2017; • Top Workplace – awarded by The Austin American Statesmen, 2017; • Arizona’s Most Admired Companies award – Microchip was selected as a winner by AZ Big Media; and • Phoenix Business Journal’s Best Places to WorkExtra Large Category (Microchip ranked fourth on the Extra Large Category list) https://www.bizjournals.com/phoenix/subscriberonly/2017/12/08/top-of-the-phoenix-lists-best-places-to-4.html 4 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our commitment to environmental responsibility begins with compliance with laws and regulations in each of the areas where we operate, regardless of global location. We have a dedicated Environmental, Health, and Safety team that ensure we meet all local, state, national, and international requirements. We have an environmental policy in place at all manufacturing facilities, and we have an environmental management system in place at our Gresham Fab 4. Both of Microchip’s Thailand facilities operate under a certified ISO14001 Environmental Management System. Microchip’s Corporate Environment, Health, and Safety Policy include the following components: • Microchip is committed to compliance with all relevant environmental laws and regulations; • Microchip actively manages its business in an environmentally responsible manner, consistent with its Mission and Guiding Values and the principles set forth in this policy; and • Microchip is committed to prevention of pollution through such strategies as minimizing utility usage, minimizing raw material usage and encouraging recycling. At Microchip, we specialize in high-efficiency semiconductor microcontrollers, analog, wireless, and human interface products. Microchip offers many different products that help our customers’ design and manufacture environmentally-preferable products. For example, our products are used in “Smart Home” energy monitoring, LED lighting applications, and low-power home appliances (which allow appliances to cycle into sleep modes to save energy). We see the continued development of high-efficiency products to be central to our R&D efforts, providing customers with environmentally-preferable options while making us a supplier of choice. In addition to our focus on environmentally-preferable products, we also seek out ways to directly minimize the environmental footprint of our operations. For example, one popular program is Microchip’s Trip Reduction program for Chandler, Tempe, and Gresham facilities, which give employees incentives to carpool, take a bus, bike, or walk to work. We also ask our employees to recycle waste products in the workplace, like white ledger paper and office paper, cardboard, aluminum cans, and plastic. Implementation As our company grows and we add production capability and new facilities, our carbon footprint has grown. Nevertheless, we are committed to managing our emissions through cost-effective emissions-control technologies. Our focus on energy efficiency in our facilities is paying off, and we have a variety of successful programs across our global facilities. 5 We also track and report our carbon footprint each year, including participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Climate Change Survey. In addition to our mandated carbon reporting for our two U.S. semiconductor manufacturing sites, we also voluntarily report emissions from all our manufacturing, design, and logistics facilities worldwide through the Carbon Disclosure Project. This commitment to measuring and reporting our carbon footprint is helping us to be more consistent in identifying emissions-reductions opportunities and to be more transparent in communicating our environmental performance with stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes Microchip’s energy use has increased as we have grown through several large business acquisitions that have increased the number of our facilities and employee headcount significantly and consequently has increased our environmental footprint. We recognize the increased responsibility that comes with the privilege of growth. Accordingly, during 2016 we implemented sixteen new projects world-wide that have helped reduce our energy use by over 1.99 million KWH/year. The estimated annual CO2e (Greenhouse Gas) savings in metric tonnes CO2e/year for these projects equate to a net reduction of an estimated 1,097 metric tonnes of Scope 2 emissions. Moreover, Microchip continues to strive for building energy efficiency and the resulting energy and cost savings. As such, we actively migrate the production of products to our most efficient manufacturing centers whenever possible. With respect to building energy efficiency, Microchip’s Philippines, test facility, optimized chiller performance, updated cooling tower controls, and installed LED fixtures providing an energy savings of 442 MWh/yr. Microchip’s Gresham, OR, Fab 4, upgraded its reverse osmosis membrane technology and partnered with the Energy Trust of Oregon to replace outdoor fixtures with LED lighting providing an energy savings of 62,000 KWH/yr. Industrial water conservation is important to the communities in which our facilities are located. Both of our Thailand assembly & test facilities expanded their industrial water recycling capacity and controls which reduced the amount of fresh water consumed in cooling towers at MTHAI and increased the amount of collected and reused manufacturing process wastewater at MMT, which is now a second facility of Microchip Technology (Thailand). In 2016 Microchip's MMT assembly and test facility reduced effluent water waste by diverting more than 7.9 million gallons of wastewater to the landscaping, with an additional 7.6 million gallons of water waste reduction projected per year in future years. Additionally, Microchip’s Gresham, OR, facility modified the water polymer injection process to decrease overall water use by 1.5 million gallons in 2016 and has a projected reduction in water use of 2.4 million gallons per year moving forward. Additionally, by optimizing the water system through removal of an unneeded meter, water use was reduced by an added 50,000 gallons in 2016 and has a projected reduction in water use of 150,000 gallons per year moving forward. 6 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Compliance with international laws is a key aspect of conducting the business of Microchip in an ethical manner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines and defines Microchip’s requirement that our staff, suppliers, and customers comply with international laws that prohibit bribery and similar acts to gain additional business or other favorable treatment. These laws include but are not limited to: The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and the People’s Republic of China’s Criminal Law. Global anticorruption laws make it a crime for companies to bribe or provide anything of value to government officials and other individuals in order to obtain new business, maintain existing business, or receive other benefits. It is unacceptable for any Microchip executive, director, or employee to act in any manner that is contrary to these laws. Further, we consider our suppliers, representatives, and distributors as critical to achieving our mission. Therefore, we expect our partners to similarly abide by our ethical guiding values, including compliance with global anti-corruption laws. We encourage our partners to not only comply with these laws, but to participate in the enforcement of our policies by reporting suspected violations of these laws by any person to Microchip pursuant to HR-675 Reporting Legal Non-Compliance. We take our obligation to follow all relevant laws and regulations seriously and provide a breakdown of all our work and efforts in our corporate social responsibility report, available at http://www.microchip.com/about-us/corporate-responsibility/corporate Measurement of outcomes Our commitment to conducting our business operations with integrity and in an ethical manner is an integral component of our Guiding Values, and we want to make sure that we have results to prove it. We are proud to report that there have been no allegations or substantiated findings of corruption or bribery for the current reporting period. Additional, detailed information regarding Microchip’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities may be found in our most-current (CY2016) Sustainability Report, which we are submitting to the United Nations Global Compact concurrently with this Communication on Progress. Microchip’s Sustainability Reports for early years are published on our website and may be downloaded without cost: http://www.microchip.com/aboutus/corporate-responsibility/sustainability 7
