2017 SUSTAINABILITY AND INTEGRATED REPORT 3 17 CONTENTS P. P. 1. IPACKCHEM 4. OUR VALUE CREATION 1.1 Presenting IPACKCHEM ........................................................... 3 Value Creation Model and KPIs.............................................. 17 1.2 IPACKCHEM growth & responsibility path .... 4 4.1 Environmental capital .............................................................. 19 4.1.1. Production resource efficiency .............................................. 19 1.3 Executive statement .................................................................. 5 4.1.2. Climate change and air quality ............................................ 20 1.4 Customers served ......................................................................... 6 4.2 Industrial and intellectual capital ............................ 21 1.5 Context and outlook .................................................................. 7 4.2.1. Sustainable innovation .................................................................... 21 1.6 IPACKCHEM ambition................................................................ 8 4.2.2. Product lifecycle management .......................................... 22 4.3 Human capital .................................................................................. 23 4.3.1. Health and Safety at the workplace .............................. 23 P. 9 4.3.2. Human capital management & engagement ........ 24 4.4 Social and relational capital .......................................... 25 4.4.1 Product safety for the consumers .................................... 25 4.4.2. Contribution to local development ............................... 26 2. GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS 4.5 Financial capital ............................................................................. 27 2.1 Corporate governance ............................................................ 9 4.5.1. Finance and investments ............................................................. 27 2.2 Compliance, ethics and integrity ............................. 10 28 2.3 Risk governance ............................................................................. 12 P. P. 13 5. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 5.1 Reporting protocol ...................................................................... 28 3. STAKEHOLDERS AND ISSUES 5.2 GRI index and linkage table with UNGC/SDG 29 3.1 Stakeholders mapping and expectations ..... 13 5.3 Glossary ...................................................................................................... 31 3.2 Materiality ............................................................................................... 15 3.3 Sustainability strategic roadmap ............................. 16 CONTACTS............................................................................. 32 2 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-02 102-07 1. IPACKCHEM 1.1. Presenting IPACKCHEM UNITED KINGDOM RUSSIA “ WE OFFER INNOVATIVE AND SECURE PACKAGING SOLUTIONS FOR SPECIALITY CHEMICALS ” FRANCE Adhesives, automotive products, agrochemicals, cleaning materials, construction chemicals, flavours, food additives, fragrances, lubricants, printing chemicals… HUNGARY BRAZIL SOUTH AFRICA 6 COUNTRIES OF OPERATIONS The IPACKCHEM Group designs and manufactures high performance 6 PRODUCTION SITES rigid plastic bottles and containers using innovative barrier technologies that allow packaging, storage, transportation and marketing of a broad range of products. 68 M€ OF SALES The Group plans to maintain its external growth through the 344 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES deployment of its activity in emerging countries while continuing to support its international customers in the six countries it operates (France, United Kingdom, Hungary, Brazil, South Africa and Russia). 15,862 TONNES The IPACKCHEM Group aims to grow its core business while maintaining its high-quality management, with its customer centric approach. OF PRODUCT SOLD IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 3 GRI 102-10 1.2. IPACKCHEM’s growth and responsibility path • Acquired by Boxmore International • Renamed BOXMORE Plastics Acquired by CEREA Partenaire 1987 1991 2000 2014 2017 2021 Became CHEASAPEAKE Acquired by Sagard Private Speciality Chemical Packaging Equity Partners following the acquisition of Boxmore Completion of Established under the name our 3-year vision of AIROPAK objectives • ISO 9001 (France) • ISO 9001 ISO 9001 BRC Certification • ISO 9001 (Brazil, South Africa) (UK) (Hungary) (UK) • ISO 14001 (France) • Handbook of policies • ISO 26000 diagnosis 1987 1994 2002 2006 2008 2010 2012 2013 2016 2017 2021 • 1st Materiality Assessment • 1st Sustainability & ISO 9002 Deployment of the Environment ISO 14001 Integrated Report (France) Business Ethics Management (Hungary) • Joined UN Global Programme initiative Compact • Embraced Responsible Care® Initiative 4 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-14 1.3. Executive Statement better transparency and relevance in all our actions towards our Corporate responsibility, coupled stakeholders. As such we therefore publish, for the first year, the report of our Corporate Responsibility approach. with external growth in emerging countries to support our The 2017 Sustainability and integrated Report invites you to follow international customers, is now a the road to our transformation. Special attention has been paid in prerequisite for operating in every setting-up a common Social Responsibility policy for all the countries line of our business. involved on the basis of best practice sharing. For our reporting, we apply both the IIRC framework and the GRI standards, the most used and reputed reporting guidelines. Jean-Philippe MORVAN IPACKCHEM Group CEO What makes you proud of IPACKCHEM ? I am particularly proud of our teams, truly dynamic and participating players, working towards the achievement of our long-term goals: Corporate responsibility is now integrated into IPACKCHEM’s they fully understand the expectations of our clients and protect the day-to-day activities. Corporate responsibility work is based on economic interests of our partners. Our 344 employees invest their IPACKCHEM’s values, vision and mission. Corporate responsibility is energy next to the Management Committee to give their utmost and guided by our strategy, general corporate responsibility principles, answer the progressive challenges at stake day after day. I need to the Code of Conduct guidelines and our purchasing and operating emphasise how confident I am in the management of our company, principles. a favourable environment we must continue to develop. I am also very proud of our clients and business partners who trust us and What are the most relevant issues for your company ? with whom we can have open debates and make transparent and Our Sustainability programme contains short-term and long-term collaborative decisions. goals. It has been based on key themes: Good corporate governance and ethics, Dialogue with our key stakeholders, Environmental management, Sustainable innovation and sourcing, Human capital development, Customer product stewardship and our contribution to Society. Our commitments benefit our clients, end users, partners, shareholders and future generations. What’s new for IPACKCHEM ? In 2016 IPACKCHEM carried out a Materiality survey in order to IPACKCHEM Management Committee: (from left to right : Jean-Philippe Morvan, Julien Cauberghs, redesign its strategic road map and promised to fully involve its Antoine Viguie and Dr. Simon Rollins) teams and partners in that project. We commit ourselves to provide IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 5 GRI 102-06 1.4. Customers served Agrochemicals Flavours & Fragrances, Petrol & Lubricants and General Chemicals 35% 65% 6 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 1.5. Context and outlook Polyethylene Polyvinyl (PE) Polypropylene (PP) chloride Polystyrene Polyethylene (PVC) (PS) Expanded Terephtalate Plastics are not one single material. The plastics’ family is polystyrene (PET) ABS (PS-E) composed of a great variety of materials designed to meet Thermoplastics SAN Polycarbonat e Polymethyl (PC) metacrylat e the very different needs of thousands of end products. As Polyamides (PMMA) (PA) Fluoro polymers PEEK products evolve, so do plastic materials and as such many of them are still to come. POM PBT Polyanyl sulfone Thermoplastic elastomers (PSU) (TPE) Etc. PLASTICS SHAPE The plastics industry Epoxy Vinyl ester Silicone THE FUTURE Plastics are a wide family of resource efficient materials derived Thermosets Polyurethane (PUR) Polyester resins from organic products such as cellulose, coal, natural gas, salt and, of course, crude oil. New products are now bio-sourced and bio Umea Phenol formaldeh ydes Melamine resin Acrylic based plastics. Because of the unique properties of plastic materials, Phenolic formaldeh ydes resins resins they are used in a wide range of applications, such as packaging, building and construction, automotive and aeronautics, electrical and electronic equipment, agriculture, leisure and sports equipment 69.2% was recovered through recycling and energy recovery or medical and health products, to help us to live and build a more processes while 30.8% still went to landfill. sustainable world. The production and processing of plastics is also closely linked to Global production of plastics has not stopped growing since the the price of oil. 1950s. Today, demand for plastics in Europe has increased, it was Moreover, the plastics industry is an important source of employment equal to 322 million tonnes in 2015, and this growth is expected to and contribution to the local economy. Over 1.5 million jobs are continue for the next few years. In 2016, the plastics industry retains provided by the European plastics industry from close to 60,000 its dominant position as a leading sector. Its turnover grows at a companies operating, most of them SME’s. faster average rate than other sectors of the manufacturing industry. In 2017, plastics production is expected to stay on this positive trend. The packaging industry Impacts on Environment and Society Estimated to be US$ 998 billion by 2020, the global packaging market offers rigid and soft materials. Rigid plastics packaging The plastics sector has direct and indirect impacts on its should continue to grow until 2020, reaching US$ 222.5 billion in the environment, the economy and the society. Considering its world market, particularly on markets in Africa, the Middle East and environmental impacts, the main resources are mainly nonAsia, which will position themselves as the strongest consumers of renewable materials and the challenge remains to encourage rigid plastic packaging. responsible sourcing, recycling and to reduce pollution impacts. In Europe, in 2014, 25.8 million tonnes of post-consumer plastics More info: http://www.plasticseurope.org/ waste ended up in the official waste streams. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 7 GRI 103-01 1.6. IPACKCHEM’s ambition and sustainability strategy In the context that places the plastics industry as a growing and IPACKCHEM’s Sustainability ambition has been redefined and will be constantly evolving sector, IPACKCHEM is converting business reinforced through corporate governance and ethics and an open opportunities into operations through more product efficiency and and constructive dialogue with its key stakeholders. integration of new technological innovations (weight reduction, biosourcing and recycling of raw materials, etc.). IPACKCHEM will focus on five themes to respond to its stakeholders’ main expectations. In addition, IPACKCHEM will continue to expand its operations in new geographical areas where customer demand of high-performance plastic packaging is increasing. In the future, IPACKCHEM will strengthen its sales and competitiveness Our sustainability wheel and reduce its impacts through deployment of innovative solutions, sharing of good operational practices and customer collaborative approach. Our 2021 strategic vision Our contribution Environmental The IPACKCHEM Group’s three-year strategy is divided into goals : to Society management Deploying our technological and innovative solutions worldwide 1 Good corporate governance and ethics Pursuing our investment policy to improve our manufacturing excellence 22 Customer Product Sustainable innovation and Stewardship Dialogue with our sourcing Key Stakeholders Strengthening our international client portfolio 3 Fostering growth in emerging markets 4 Human capital development Ensuring business continuity at industrial sites 5 8 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-18 2. GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS In 2016, a broad-based initiative was launched to implement a proper 2.1 Corporate governance sustainability approach at the IPACKCHEM Group. As such a future action plan will be implemented and a CSR report published. The supervisory committee also agreed that the Group will join the UN Strategy Global Compact initiative. In 2017, IPACKCHEM’s CEO sent a letter to endorse the 10 UNGC principles and committed to communicate on IPACKCHEM commits to have responsible corporate progress. management. Management Committee The Management Committee is composed of Jean-Philippe Morvan, Deployment CEO, and three senior management members, to provide leadership to the organisation: Corporate governance is at the heart of a company and is the • Ensuring the effective management of the organisation cornerstone of its responsibility as a company. Framed by law for • Monitoring its activities and reporting on the different activities of the organisation better transparency, IPACKCHEM management, through business • Setting the strategic direction to guide and direct the activities of the organisation. principles and management systems, maintains the interests of main The Management Committee is in charge of the development, stakeholders such as its business partners and its employees. The coordination and reporting of responsibility work. To implement a governance system of the IPACKCHEM Group ensures a balance sustainability culture, a number of objectives have been set: and a distribution of powers in order to guarantee efficiency and • Develop the principles that guide IPACKCHEM’s corporate responsibility overall performance. Corporate governance rules are defined to • Steer and coordinate practical measures for deployment ensure the effectiveness of board members. A formal follow-up of • Set the objectives for corporate responsibility work and monitor and support their achievement the attendance of the participants is in place and the minutes of the IPACKCHEM GROUP meetings of governance bodies of the company are recorded. CEO JP Morvan Supervisory Committee Quality & CFO Supply Chain & Plants 87% of the IPACKCHEM Group is held by private equity shareholders Technology Director General Secretary Industrial Director General Manager (Sagard Partners mainly) and 13% of shares are held by the executive Dr. Simon Rollins Antoine Viguie Julien Cauberghs FR/UK/HU/BR/ZA/RU management. The IPACKCHEM Supervisory Committee now includes Industrial six members and 17% of members are independent. Development Director Olivier Deffrennes Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal Independent Supervisory Country management 25% 25% 17% 33% Committee members The Management Committee has defined authorisation limits for The committee meeting agenda is proposed in advance to the country managers to engage in any financial or business agreement members and covers matters such as: strategic projects, investments (purchasing, sales, recruitment, bank loans…). All items above the and approval of forecasted budgets. Board minutes are systematically limits require the group authorisation or require notification to the circulated and approved by the members. group. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 9 GRI 102-12 102-13 102-16 2.2. Compliance, ethics and integrity • Treat its customers, communities, suppliers, advisors, competitors and employees with fairness and integrity Strategy • Identify, report, investigate and resolve any suspected noncompliance, without threat of retaliation against the person IPACKCHEM commits to conduct its business reporting in good faith. accordingly to applicable laws, sector regulations and In 2015, IPACKCHEM adopted a Business Ethics Programme to companies policies. ensure that IPACKCHEM companies and their employees comply with IPACKCHEM’s policies and all applicable legal requirements and company policies. Knowledge of and compliance with competition laws is of primary importance. Deployment The Business Ethics Programme is built on two principles: IPACKCHEM has built a reputation as a company with a high sense of integrity and of fair play, by pursuing its tradition of being a 1. Each employee, working or acting on behalf of IPACKCHEM, must responsible and ethical company. In all the countries where we act ethically and legally. operate, IPACKCHEM’s employees carry out regulatory watch in 2. Each employee must report any suspected non-compliance order to comply with all applicable laws, national and international incident, and may do so without fear of retaliation for making a codes and conventions, industry codes of practice and local trade report in good faith. laws and treaties. Since 2016, a handbook gathering policies and codes has been IPACKCHEM’s commitments to international declarations and distributed to employees. conventions are included in the principles that the company endorses. The most important are: In 2017, the Business Ethics Programme was revised to enlarge the scope of our ethical behaviour principles to all our value chain. The • The UN Universal Declaration Principles on Business and Human Business Ethics Programme is a common reference document for all Rights our managers and employees around the world as well as for all our • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights different stakeholders: customers, suppliers and contractors, host • The International Labour Organisation (ILO) Tripartite Declaration countries, local communities, business partners and shareholders. of Principles on the Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work Our business partners are expected to apply standards that are • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises equivalent to ours, in particular towards their employees. • The UN Global Compact initiative which principles were endorsed The revised Business Ethics Programme contains a broad range of by IPACKCHEM’s CEO in 2017 information and guidance about standards of corporate activity • The UN Sustainable Development Goals. and responsibility. It does not address every situation or set forth every policy, nor is a substitute for each employee’s responsibility to IPACKCHEM acting through its employees and directors will: exercise good judgment and seek guidance when necessary. • Conduct its business in a responsible, ethical and lawful manner The spirit of the business ethics programme should be respected 10 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report and observed generally. All employees must accept its principles, GRI 102-16 102-41 408-01 409-01 415-01 by signing, the Business Ethics Programme and confirm that they have understood their own personal responsibility to comply with Available in the UK and progressively extended to all world units, the contents of the Policy. the staff pack encompasses the different policies and procedures IPACKCHEM Business Ethics Programme covers the four subject applicable to IPACKCHEM. matters divided into 38 topics: COMPLIANCE AND GOVERNANCE 21. Proprietary information of third parties The Data Protection Act 1998 gives employees the right 1. Compliance with law and conventions 22. Promote fair and ethical business practices of protecting their personal information and, if necessary, 2. Anti-trust and competition law along the value chain 3. Bribery and corrupt business practices to require corrections. The Act rests on eights main principles 4. Money laundering HUMAN RIGHTS, Labour AND SOCIAL relating to the access to and retaining of personal data. 5. Gifts, meals and entertainment STANDARDS 6. Conflict of interest 23. Human rights respect Whistleblowing 7. Abuse of dominant market position 24. Anti-slavery and human trafficking 8. Political contributions and lobbying 25. Child labour In 2016, IPACKCHEM implemented a whistle-blowing reporting 26. Freedom of association and collective process where any individual (employee or partner) may in confidence, BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ETHICS bargaining 9. Contractual obligations 27. Labour conventions raise concerns about any impropriety, corrupt, fraudulent or illegal 10. Information management 28. Safe and healthy workplace practices; any unsafe work practice or any other conduct which may 11. Financial reporting 29. Alcohol and drug use cause financial or non-financial losses to IPACKCHEM or damage 12. Disclosure of company information 30. Equal opportunity / non-discrimination 13. Confidential business information 31. Harassment to IPACKCHEM’ reputation. To raise any concern, a whistleblowing 14. Social media and compromising the 32. Privacy & personal information hotline is available by email at compliancecontact@ipackchem.com. company image 15. Insider trading ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY An employee with a question about the Business Ethics Programme, 16. Information technology 33. Environmental protection a policy or a specific compliance issue needs to seek and receive an 17. Intellectual property 34. Biological diversity 18. Misappropriation or misuse of company 35. Climate change answer. In the first instance employees should direct these questions property 36. Animal welfare to their Country Managing Director. If an employee feels it is more 19. Use of IT systems and equipment 37. Product safety, quality and stewardship appropriate, the employee may contact the Group compliance 20. Privacy and personal data protection 38. Dialogue and contribution to communities hotline. Any message sent to the Group will be received by two More information persons: the Group Senior Manager in charge of investigating and Good practice reporting any ethical incident and the CEO of the IPACKCHEM Group who will systematically be informed of any alert. Group Conflict of Interest: Employees should report any potentially conflicting activities and must restrict or discontinue Performance such activities as requested by management. IPACKCHEM requests Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal annual disclosure of conflicts of interest from certain employees Employees having signed the (such as officers, certain senior managers and purchasing and 81% 49% 43% 100% Business Ethics Programme sales personnel) but every IPACKCHEM employee has an ongoing Conflict of interest 0 0 0 0 obligation to disclose a potential conflict of interest when it arises. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 0 0 0 0 The QHSE and HR Managers are responsible for identifying regulations requirements and ensuring compliance. Information on Political contributions 0 0 0 0 legal requirements are available for any employee on the Note: the decrease of employees having signed the Business Ethics Programme is due to the IPACKCHEM’s intranet platform. integration of new plants in the consolidation perimeter (Brazil and South Africa). IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 11 GRI 102-11 205-01 205-02 412-01 2.3. Risk governance Strategy Risk mapping Financial • Ownership variation and lack of capital IPACKCHEM ensures business continuity thanks to • Fluctuation of exchange rates & Inflation • Credit risk the existence of a crisis management system and the application of preventive measures. Legal • Product stewardship • Labour litigation • Regulatory changes • Business contract violation Deployment Market • Image and reputation • Corruption and Bribes IPACKCHEM pays attention to the long term, taking care to reduce risks which could impact the future to the advantage of a short-term Operational • Sourcing • Lack of emergency preparedness result. IPACKCHEM uses a structured functioning of the governance • Business interruption due to low maintenance bodies where the processes are reviewed with quarterly visits. • Accidents at sites (fires and explosions) • Malicious acts According to the Human Rights Index 2016 published by Transparency Environmental • Pollution and environmental damages International, IPACKCHEM operates in some countries where the risk • Accidents at sites (fires and explosions) of corruption can be significant, especially in Brazil, South Africa • Extreme climatic events and Russia. No case of corruption has been identified to date within Social • Lack of appropriate resources the company. • Health and Safety accidents • Corruption and Human rights violation The Group has preventive measures of business continuity conjugated to a global vision of the distribution of the client portfolio and willingness to control the risk of dependence on sectors and clients IPACKCHEM has set two new goals : (duplication of suppliers and service providers, insurance against customer risks). By 2021 Fluorination technology used by IPACKCHEM can create a risk of business ​​continuity at the supply chain level. All the sites using fluorine Operations assessed for risks related to non100 % are equipped with large retention tanks to face any fire. Emergency ethical practices procedures are reviewed in presence of the local firefighters. Employees having passed the Business Ethics IPACKCHEM provides to its employees an Emergency Situations 100 % e-learning with a score >75% manual describing the warning system, the risk assessment system, the list of emergency control tools and the organisation of relief. 12 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-09 102-40 102-42 3. STAKEHOLDERS AND ISSUES 3.1. Stakeholders’ mapping and expectations The dialogue with stakeholders is the key for the sustainable Good practices development of IPACKCHEM. The quality of the service proposed by First stakeholder identification was carried out in 2015 IPACKCHEM to its clients depends on employees, on the engagement through ISO 9001 certification to define expectations and of suppliers and partners with whom it cooperates, and also on the channels of dialogue. Customer satisfaction surveys are therefore products offered to clients. regularly proposed to evaluate IPACKCHEM’s products and services. The 2017 survey highlighted the excellence of customer Business Partners Market regulators service (speed of processing, communication, and reliability), the logistic service (respect of the deadlines) and the quality of the Clients Governments products. An internal evaluation of suppliers is provided each year Suppliers and sub-contractors Competitors to assess the level of IPACKCHEM satisfaction about products and Investors Industrial associations services proposed. By 2018, 100% of new suppliers will be evaluated on CSR criteria. Competitors Certification bodies Customer and supplier engagement are key to IPACKCHEM’ business as part of commitment to customer service. There are no ‘open ended’ conversations. All interactions are Internal Stakeholders Social Influencers focused on achieving specific outcomes. Management teams Local authorities The customer satisfaction survey and other Employees Local communities dialogues have promoted a good and strong End-users supplier and shareholder relationships supported by transparent Shareholders Associations and NGO’s reports provided regularly to shareholders. Medias Supply Chain : IPACKCHEM is committed to develop an extensive IPACKCHEM goal is to have trustworthy relationships with the raw materials supply network to serve its customers. In Europe, different partners that IPACKCHEM work with within its activities. through S&OP fully integrated in the management process, the IPACKCHEM goals: Management Committee will continually achieve alignment to • Recognising the needs and concerns of key stakeholder groups ; achieve better performance through a better anticipation of needs • Understanding and responding to customer requirements ; and results. IPACKCHEM has launched an evaluation process of • Working in partnership with customers to deliver sustainability the supplier commitment regarding safety and sustainability. outcomes ; • Engaging with suppliers to improve processes, and/or to meet customer requirements. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 13 DIALOGUE CHANNELS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-43 102-44 STAKEHOLDERS EXPECTATIONS DIALOGUE • Limit industrial risk Shareholders • Improve the reputation of the company in terms of quality • Comply with environmental regulation • Periodic meetings Shareholders / CEO and CFO IPACK• Promote a short-term return on investment CHEM Group Quarterly reviews CEO / CFO IPACKCHEM • Ensure a calm social climate Group and Management IPACKCHEM SAS • Anticipate and manage crisis • Prevent and manage risks • Propose development partnerships • Frequent meetings Customers • Respect product standards and regulations • Assessment of customer satisfaction • Develop product safety • New Product Development Partnership • Respect delivery times • Investigations and Technical Support for Claims • Offer products at competitive prices • Periodic quality assessments of IPACKCHEM by its cus• Value the environmental image tomers • Integrate more CSR in sourcing • Quality and environment audits by customers • Promote a favourable working environment Employees • Value the work carried out • Training and awareness of product quality • Offer more training • Information on quality and environmental performance • Minimize nuisances (noise, emissions) • Awareness of the environment and the EMS • Give attractive compensation conditions • CHSCT and social dialogue in the company by the EC • Leverage sustainability culture • Propose a clear scope of works • Contacts and Trade Suppliers and subcontractors • Value partnerships for innovation • Provide Technical Support • Foster fair financial conditions • Periodic evaluation of the suppliers working on its premises • Inform about the solvency of the company by IPACKCHEM • Formalize requirements for production conditions • Safety-Environment Welcome Booklet and issuing work permits • Promote transparency Authorities • Provide measurement results and indicators • Meetings or dialogue on the examination of mutual • Pay social security contributions, taxes and other taxes applications • Respect labour legislation • Develop local employment • Promote transparency Neighbours and local • Provide measurement results and indicators • Response to relevant requests communities • Pay social security contributions, taxes and other taxes • Implementation of noise measurements • Respect labour legislation • Develop local employment • Comply with requirements, transparency, access to inforCertification bodies mation • Trade Exchanges • Provide results and performance indicators • Assessment of customer satisfaction by certifying bodies • Promote and participate in CSR initiatives • Exchanges through audits • Have the capacity to influence and train in the field of CSR 14 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-47 3.2. Materiality IPACKCHEM MATERIALITY MATRIX In 2016, IPACKCHEM carried out an ISO 26000 diagnosis to assess the maturity of its Corporate Responsibility approach. IPACKCHEM pursued the stake identification with a materiality assessment based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards. IPACKCHEM launched a survey to prioritise the relevant issues for its activities from the most critical stakeholders. An international benchmark on sustainability frameworks (such as GRI) as well as on main industrial players in the field, helped to identify the most material issues among the sector. A consultation of main stakeholders has been launched to prioritise the most material stakes on governance, economic performance as well as environmental, social and civic corporate responsibility. This work helped to define the most strategic issues for the company. 20 priority issues have been defined as the most material for the development of IPACKCHEM activities and to respond to it’s stakeholders’ expectations. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 15 GRI 102-46 103-01 3.3. Integrated strategic roadmap VALUE FOR... SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL CAPITAL Finance and Investments SOCIAL AND VALUE FOR... VALUE FOR... ENVIRONMENTAL RELATIONAL NEIGHBOURS 1 2 CAPITAL CUSTOMERS CAPITAL AND THE PLANET Our contribution Environmental Production resource Product safety for the efficiency consumers to Society management Climate change and Good corporate air quality governance and 14 ethics 3 4 Dialogue with our 13 Key Stakeholders 5 SOCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL AND RELATIONAL Sustainable INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Customer Product innovation and CAPITAL Stewardship 15 16 17 sourcing VALUE FOR... Sustainable Contribution to LOCAL 12 innovation VALUE FOR... local development 6 7 Product COMMUNITIES CUSTOMERS lifecycle management AND Human capital SUPPLIERS & development SUBCONTRACTORS 11 10 9 8 HUMAN Health and Safety at the CAPITAL Workplace Human capital management & engagement VALUE FOR... EMPLOYEES 16 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 103-02 4. OUR VALUE CREATION Value creation model It highlights the importance of its workforce, of natural resources and of its capacity to innovate. As an international group, IPACKCHEM IPACKCHEM’s value creation model shows the resources the Group cannot only create value for its business and the Group gives relies on to produce and create value for its stakeholders. contribution to its local communities and society at large. RESOURCES GROWTH MODEL RESULTS IMPACTS Enterprise Capital Activities Capital transformed by the growth Positive impacts for Society model through our commitments Environmental (natural capital) Environmental Attract and mobilise resources Resource efficiency 15,862 tonnes of containers sold Biological diversity (Finance, people, materials) Energy and water management Industrial and intellectual Industrial and intellectual (Organisational knowledge and Design and develop intangible assets) Ethics and compliance innovative and reliable Sustainable innovation 6 production sites products Responsible sourcing Innovative solutions Product lifecycle management Human (human resources) Human Manage and control the 344 permanent employees based in 6 supply chain and the product Health and Safety countries Human capital development lifecycle Diversity Economic growth Good health and wellbeing Industry, innovation and infrastructure Social and relational Social and relational (relationships and networks) Responsible consumption and production Market an innovative and Product Stewardship 95% of sales with regional deliveries high-value service offering Contribution to Society Biodiversity Financial (financial capacity) Financial 68 M€ of sales Engage responsibly Financial stability Investments towards stakeholders Cash flow Profitability for investors IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 17 GRI 103-03 Key Performance Indicators Countries of operation Factories Water withdrawn = 0.26 (m3 / tonnes of containers sold) Hazardous waste ratio (ppm) = 643 (tonnes collected / tonnes of containers sold) 11 Electrical consumption efficiency = 1,841 8 (KWh / produced tonnes) 6 6 5 5 3 3 HDPE resource efficiency = 97 % 2015 2016 2017 2021 Absenteeism rate = 3 % Employees having signed the Business Ethics Programme Customers satisfied (OTIF) = 91 % Sales with local deliveries = 94 % 100% 81% 49% 43% 2015 2016 2017 2021 ISO 14001 certified plants ISO 9001 certified plants Permanent workforce Men Women Temporary workforce 13% 16% 11 12% 87% 84% 5 5 5 88% 3 2 2 1 Permanent Management workforce 2015 2016 2017 2021 18 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 301-01 303-01 306-02 4.1. Environmental Capital 4.1.1. Production resource efficiency IPACKCHEM conducts regular environmental reviews of its manufacturing and industrial locations impacts. Strategy Eco-efficient Processes IPACKCHEM implements an effective management of resources to IPACKCHEM commits to reduce its manufacturing monitor the consumption of raw materials and energy needed in the impacts on the environment by improving its resource production process. The Group works to increase process efficiency efficiency. through reprocessing of plastic offcuts and research into reducing product weight while retaining performance and sustainable product design in collaboration with suppliers. Moulded products top and Deployment tails are reground and go back into the input material process. Industrial activities could generate of air, water and soil pollution. Good practice IPACKCHEM is not a large user of natural resources but is mainly a IPACKCHEM will propose 100% ecological packaging by user of HDPE, a product of oil refining. 2018. The company was the first company in the sector to Environmental review of impacts at manufacturing and use hard packaging produced with a renewable raw material industrial locations sourced in Brazil. Today the “Family Green” bio-based products are composed of at least 81% polyethylene derived from sugarcane During the design, construction, operation and decommissioning of to replace petroleum used in its composition. its operations, IPACKCHEM considers ambient conditions, applies pollution prevention and control technologies and practices that are best suited to avoid or reduce impacts on human health and Performance environment while remaining technically and financially costIndicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal effective. In 2011, IPACKCHEM embarked on an ambitious companySold production from bio-sourced NA NA 0.5% 10 % wide initiative, designed to reduce the environmental impact of its raw materials operations, while sustainably improving the group’s competitiveness: Water withdrawn (m3 / tonnes of 0.28 0.29 0.26 0.25 containers sold) • Reducing the weight of containers without compromising quality The weight of a 20 litre container has decreased by 48% from 2 Collected hazardous waste in ppm (tonnes collected / tonnes of 840 742 643 600 kilograms to 1.05 kilogram in 20 years. containers sold) • Encouraging production with sustainable material. IPACKCHEM reduces the use of dangerous and toxic products. All IPACKCHEM sites and employees are expected to operate in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. IPACKCHEM is engaged in third-party certification programmes. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 19 GRI 302-01 302-04 302-05 4.1. Environmental Capital Air quality 4.1.2. Climate change and air quality As a fluorination specialist, IPACKCHEM sets up plans to monitor final discharges as well as the concentration in the vegetation Strategy around the plant and in the ambient air. Measurements are carried out by independent certified bodies. Not content with the respect of authorised emissions, IPACKCHEM has defined an objective to be 10 IPACKCHEM commits to combat climate change by times below the regulatory levels. reducing energy consumption. Carbon footprint of transportation IPACKCHEM largest CO2 Tonnes emissions are linked to the Deployment distribution of products by transport. With strategically-situated Information and training will be needed to ensure the sound production facilities, being industry-focused, its containers are management and the use of newly developed chemicals, or existing manufactured locally aiming not to exceed shipping distance over chemicals used in new locations or applications. Targeted research 1000 km. IPACKCHEM has set a goal not only to reduce requirements and application of a precautionary approach are essential to protect for broad geographical coverage within its 2021 strategic vision. A human health and ecosystem integrity from harm as the Group first carbon assessment will be made in France and this initiative will strives to protect the future. be duplicated in other countries. Demand for water and other natural resources will grow along with explosive population growth in the next decades. This Resilience to climate events will pressure society to reduce water and electricity usage and IPACKCHEM will have to adapt to growing environmental pressures. repurpose materials such as packaging. It will be necessary to do An update of the Emergency Situations manual was undertaken to climate assessments to anticipate climate-related risks as changing integrate potential environmental emergency cases. An Emergency government policies, product-preference shifts, and raw materials Plan is aimed to help anticipate actions in case of any extreme event price volatility. IPACKCHEM implements active measures to reduce (earthquake, storm, flood). Organisational units and employees are energy consumption. To measure its progress, data is continuously obliged to carry out their activities as described in the Plan and collected. to take account of these requirements in the future. The lightning In our plants, the lighting system of the production area is a low protection installation is regularly inspected to check the state of consumer of energy. When outside temperatures are low enough, preservation. IPACKCHEM uses a cost-free cooling system. So, energy is saved Performance during this process as it avoids using industrial chillers. Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal Good practice Electrical Consumption efficiency 1,848 1,855 1,841 1,800 (KWh / Tonnes produced) Waste compressor heat is recovered and used to heat the offices and the plant without any other traditional heating system such as boilers. This initiative will be implemented in other appropriate countries such as Russia. 20 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 417-01 4.2. Industrial and intellectual capital IPACKCHEM manufactures containers of all shapes and sizes 4.2.1. Sustainable innovation using polymers such as high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET). Containers respond to specific Strategy requirements and range from 100 ml to 30-litre capacity, with the stability and resilience to guarantee essential structural integrity. IPACKCHEM has an in-depth knowledge of technologies: IPACKCHEM commits to apply new technological 1. IN MOULD-FLUORINATION solutions to foster sustainable innovation. This advanced barrier technology has revolutionised the production of plastic containers, making it possible to utilise plastics in applications previously only served by metal and glass. Deployment It is now used to economically produce millions of blow-moulded IPACKCHEM continuously develops project studies to design, containers for use in the packaging industry. manufacture, market, transport, store and finally deliver high 2. COEXTRUSION performing products to its speciality chemicals partners. Its products benefit from a well-deserved reputation for excellence Extrusion of 4 or 6 layers combining HDPE with Polyamide or of quality and design. Its manufacturing image is founded on both EVOH creating various barrier functions. the quality of the products IPACKCHEM supplies and on the high 3. TWO STAGE POLYETHYLENE TEREPHTALATE (PET) level of customer support embodied in its operational ethos. Smart IPACKCHEM has adopted the two-stage PET technology to inject innovative approaches are based on exceeding clients’ needs and preforms and blow bottles from 100 ml to 2 litres. PET bottles are meeting or anticipating regulatory requirements. lightweight yet incredibly resilient, offering a cost-effective, high performance packaging solution. Innovation approach IPACKCHEM offers to its customers reduced weight packaging that Performance meets all regulatory constraints. Innovative projects in partnership with customers are in progress to reduce the amount of plastic used. Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal Experimental tests are performed internally, directly in the factories. Containers sold (tonnes) 12,140 13,743 15,862 45,000 Improved barrier properties reduce permeation and weight loss & evaporation of solvent. IPACKSHIELD® In 2015 IPACKCHEM developed IPACKSHIELD®, a unique technology Double barrier based on the combination of in-mould fluorination to a 6-layer coextrusion process offering a double solvent barrier combined with an oxygen barrier. Bio-sourced polymers with a full lifecycle assessment allow the reduction in dependency on fossil-based raw materials. Secure and reliable packaging To develop safer packaging, IPACKCHEM proposes innovative technologies. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 21 GRI 301-02 4.2. Industrial and intellectual capital 4.2.2. Product lifecycle management Strategy of the container wall structure. The company also seeks maximum material recoverability through IPACKCHEM commits to optimise product lifecycle its manufacturing practices and systems. The waste material is either management by promoting the reuse of certain re-used or sent to a subcontractor who regrinds it for its reuse. materials. Transit packaging materials, such as pallets, trays and shrink wrap, should also have a minimum material content and maximum reuse or recyclability. Deployment Plastics is a key resource for circular economy and recycling is the Performance preferred option for plastics waste. However, when recycling is not Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal the most sustainable option, energy recovery is the alternative. Both options complement each other and exploit the full potential of HDPE resource efficiency 99% 98% 97% 98% plastics waste. IPACKCHEM promotes in-mould fluorination technology since it reduces manufacturing impacts on the environment. With a monomaterial structure, only chemically modified on its inner surface, this process allows full recycling as unmixed packaging material. not waste PLASTICS but resource Waste management From its manufacturing stage, to end of life, where containers must be empty to be considered as packaging waste, IPACKCHEM’s clear goal is to reduce waste going to landfill. Working with its customers, IPACKCHEM strives to reduce the weight of containers through innovative extrusion functionalities, as well as studying reinforcement 22 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 403-02 4.3. Human capital 4.3.1. Health and Safety at the workplace Newer electrical machines are gradually being installed in IPACKCHEM not only reducing power consumption, but improving Strategy working conditions with noise reduction. Since 2014, a welcome brochure Safety & Environment is circulated to all external service providers to introduce behavioural guidance IPACKCHEM commits to protect the health and at the factory and inform on safety instructions. wellbeing of its employees and of the populations living in the surroundings. Good practice An asbestos technical file was updated during the summer Deployment of 2017 to carry out a new identification of materials containing asbestos. Occupational health of workers In all its plants, IPACKCHEM undertakes to provide the highest level Hygiene Code of Practice of safe working conditions for its employees, as well as external Some of the items IPACKCHEM manufactures are supplied service providers. as direct food contact packaging. The Group therefore All risks are identified, prioritised and minimised in each category operates under the requirements of the BRC Packaging through either monitoring processes, good practices, exceptional Standard which requires high standards of personal hygiene and facility and equipment maintenance, as well as an annual risk cleanliness. All employees and visitors entering the production and prevention programme. storage areas must therefore comply with the site’s Hygiene Code of 80% of our the training sessions held are linked to the subject matter Practice which will be issued annually. As part of the Hygiene’s COP, of Health and Safety in the workplace. some restrictions apply to all staff working in production and storage areas (hairnets are to be worn, no perfume or aftershave…) Hygiene and Security Committees meet several times a year. A comprehensive welcome booklet detailing health and safety aspects at work is distributed to all employees. Performance Irrespective of sites, IPACKCHEM wishes to offer good working Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal conditions to its employees by making efforts to reduce noise. Employees at risk with valid Dedicated and regulated zone for the manipulation of chemical hazardous products training 80% 84% 84% 100% products are defined in each plant so as to minimize exposure of the Lost hours due to safety Quality staff, all receiving training on the hazardous nature of these accidents (hours per 1.7 1.5 0.9 0.6 products. permanent employee) Those chemicals are used to simulate the customer products that Plants with health and safety will be filled in IPACKCHEM containers, to ensure optimum product 67% 80% 100% 100% managers or committees barrier quality. IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 23 GRI 102-08 401-01 404-01 404-02 405-01 4.3. Human capital Equal employment opportunities / non-discrimination 4.3.2. Human capital management and engagement IPACKCHEM is committed to and supports the principle of equal opportunities at work, as outlined in the IPACKCHEM Business Strategy Ethics Programme. IPACKCHEM preserves a healthy and positive atmosphere at work. IPACKCHEM fights against discrimination linked to age, gender sexual orientation, transgender, religion, disability, IPACKCHEM commits to develop employee skills and colour or ethnic background. increase their engagement. Good practices Since 2007, IPACKCHEM has engaged with the Investors Deployment in People assessment programme. The company IPACKCHEM makes its employees more engaged through a commitment starts with an induction programme for all new participative management. Employee satisfaction surveys are employees and after follows with a comprehensive Training Plan, carried out every three years in its factories. IPACKCHEM is happy which focuses on the company training needs for the development and proud of the long service of a great number of its employees. of its operational projects. Feedback take place regularly and the employees value the appraisal process as an opportunity to spend Developing employability time with line managers to discuss on their performance during IPACKCHEM enhances the skills of its employees through the last period. The Company INVESTORS IN PEOPLE Standard development programmes as well as continuous on the job training. was re-assessed in 2016. Professional assessment and performance interviews are carried out regularly. The non-discrimination & anti-harassment policy was revised in 2017. This policy prohibits disrespectful and Work life balance unprofessional conduct that constitutes unlawful harassment, Employees can expect to receive a good level of flexibility to enable discrimination and retaliation by supervisors, managers and cothem to manage their family life. workers, as well as by third-parties such as vendors or customers. Compensation Wage are annually reviewed according to internal promotion/ Performance relocation to a change of position or to completion of an agreed Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal training programme. Employee incentive programs are used Permanent employees 189 318 344 900 to encourage performance. IPACKCHEM guarantees an equal remuneration package between men and women at the recruitment Temporary workforce 21 47 47 80 stage. Turnover (permanent) 15% 11% 12% 8% Absenteeism (permanent) 3.6% 4.7% 3.7% 2.5% Internal communication In its countries of operation, IPACKCHEM communicates information Training hours per employee (permanent) 11 12 18 24 about its business openly with all employees on a regular basis Women in management positions 20% 16% 16% 20% including team briefing and presentations. Human Capital ROI (Tonnes sold/ 64 43 46 50 Employees) 24 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 301-03 306-04 416-01 417-01 4.4. Social and relational capital 4.4.1. Product safety • Tactile danger warning and visistrip (vertical transparent line to visualise product level) options are available. Strategy Good practices In 2015, IPACKCHEM was audited regarding “the control IPACKCHEM commits to ensure a high level of security of manufacturing of packaging for the transportation of for its products and scrupulously fulfil all regulatory dangerous goods” delivered by the Ministry of Transport. requirements for the transport of dangerous goods. IPACKCHEM France has obtained an AFNOR management system certification (ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001: 2015) for the design, manufacture and sale of plastic bottles and containers that may Deployment include a solvent barrier. IPACKCHEM is regularly and successfully assessed on product All its facilities are accredited ISO 9001 and all employees work to quality processes based on ISO 9001 on behalf of its clients common quality standards and systems. external certification bodies with a consistent score of A. IPACKCHEM provides professional advice and recommendations on packing and storing hazardous chemicals, as well as meeting UN Factory certifications Regulations for the carriage of dangerous goods. ISO 9001 ISO 14001 The UN certification is available for its products and in the UK, Quality management system Environmental management system IPACKCHEM is in full compliance with BRC and EU food packaging 2002 2016 France 1994 (ISO 9002) FDX 30-205 (2014) requirements. 2002 UK By 2018 IPACKCHEM provides information to customers on the safety of 2012 BRC certification products and raw materials, including evidence to support claims Brazil 2016 By 2018 (where requested). All complaints are analysed with immediate Hungary 2008 2013 South Africa 2016 By 2018 confirmation and feedback to customers in a written report. Russia By 2018 By 2020 IPACKCHEM listens to its customer preferences and IPACKCHEM proposes appropriate options: Performance • Closures are available in a full range of sizes and options and Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal include standard, tamper-evident and child resistant. As well as a variety of liner styles including breather, standard or induction ISO 14001 Certified sites 1 2 2 5 heat-seal. ISO 9001 Certified sites 3 5 5 11 • Barcoding: bottles and containers can incorporate specific Customer satisfaction (On97% 90% 91% 95% barcodes to aid product identification if required Time In-Full deliveries) • Decoration : IPACKCHEM offers a full range of paper-based Recall of products (tonnes) 0 0 0 0 Note: the decrease of customer satisfaction is due to the integration of new plants in the products including self-adhesive labels, leaflet-labels, sleeves, consolidation parameter. product information booklet and silk screen printing ; IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 25 GRI 201-01 204-01 413-01 4.4. Social and relational capital 4.4.2. Contribution to local development In each of its operations, IPACKCHEM favours local partners for the purchase of production materials (pallets, cardboard, maintenance Strategy products…) At IPACKCHEM, we are proud of the broader economic contribution IPACKCHEM commits to play a key responsible role we make to society, part of which takes the form of taxes paid to where it operates. government. In 2017, overall, this represents 3% of our sales. Good practices Deployment IPACKCHEM is in favour of a responsible choice of purchase. One of its action levers is its policy on less able Given the nature of its products, people, asking assistance with an ESAT (a Public Disabled People IPACKCHEM encourages Workshop). IPACKCHEM sub-contracts some of its administrative LOCAL PRODUCTION FOR LOCAL NEEDS and packing tasks to them. The company makes a financial donation to various charity IPACKCHEM contributes to local development by its activities in organisations. Finally, IPACKCHEM also supports the local the countries where the company is established through a direct community distributing plastic containers to store water during contribution to the economic development (local recruitment, drought conditions. local sourcing and financial assistance). All these actions make IPACKCHEM a true economic stakeholder. IPACKCHEM supports employees’ individual fundraising efforts. Performance Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal Sales with regional deliveries 95% 95% 94% 95% Financial donations to charity 0 12,000 1,000 40,000 (€) 26 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-07 4.5. Financial capital 4.5.1. Finance and Investments In 2016, 65% of the Group sales were realised with customers from Beyond sustained investment to develop its global footprint, the Agrochemicals sector. Other markets are Flavours & Fragrances, IPACKCHEM continuously re-invests to modernise its production Petrol & Lubricants and General Chemicals. assets, and reduce energy consumption. IPACKCHEM overall investment represents circa 8% of its turnover. IPACKCHEM Group Permanent employees Sales 900 Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2021 Goal Sales (in M€) 50 60 68 200 Investments (M€) 2.2 8.4 4.3 15 344 Operating working capital 318 200 7.9 9.8 11.5 32.5 (M€) Ratio of tonnes of containers 189 243 229 233 225 68 sold / Sales (tonnes / M€) 60 50 Tonnes of container sold Ratio of containers sold / Sales 2015 2016 2017 2021 243 45,000 Human Capital ROI (Sales in €k / Permanent Employees) 233 229 265 225 222 15,862 13,743 12,140 189 198 2015 2016 2017 2021 2015 2016 2017 2021 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 27 GRI 102-50 102-52 102-53 102-56 5. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 5.1. Reporting protocol IPACKCHEM releases the reporting of the results of its CSR approach for the first year in 2017. IPACKCHEM has taken account of the ISO 26000 standard as a This report describes the progress and results of responsibility work source document providing guidelines for corporate responsibility. in 2016-2017. It includes some information from July 2016 to June The report is available in English, and it is published online and has 2017. The report for 2016 was published in September 2017. been printed in a limited number of units. The report for 2017 will be published in the fall of 2018. In order to ensure the clarity of its approach, IPACKCHEM presents GRI assurance the annual values ​​of historical progress over the past 3 years. Further information on the topics covered in the report can MATERIALITY-Reporting, GRI DATA PARTNER for France and be obtained from Dr. Simon ROLLINS, IPACKCHEM Group accredited as GRI expert, made a check of the present report Quality & Technology Director by email at : according to both GRI New Standards reporting principles and its simon.rollins@ipackchem.com GRI, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and ISO 26000 cross index. IPACKCHEM reports on its corporate responsibility actions in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles for reporting on sustainable development. The “2017 Integrated and Sustainability Report” is a GRI integrated report prepared in Responsible Care ® accordance with the GRI 2017 standards: Core option. In December 2017, IPACKCHEM embraced the 6 goals of the chemical The “2016 Integrated and Sustainability Report” has been also based industry’s voluntary RESPONSIBLE CARE® initiative. on the IIRC “INTEGRATED REPORTING (IR) framework”. Launched by UIC, Responsible Care is the The “2017 Integrated and Sustainability Report” covers the key global chemical industry’s unifying commitment areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility. to the safe management of chemicals Topic-specific Standards are reported with respect to the material throughout their life cycle, while promoting topics for IPACKCHEM. For each reported standard, the GRI content their role in improving quality of life and index refers to the corresponding section. contributing to sustainable development. 28 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report GRI 102-54 102-55 5.2. GRI index and linkage table with UNGC/SDG The “2016 Sustainability Report” is a GRI integrated report prepared in accordance with the GRI 2016 standards: Core option. Disclosure Standards Title Chapter UNGC SDG 102-01 General disclosures Name of the organisation 32 102-02 General disclosures Activities, brands, products and services 3 102-03 General disclosures Location of headquarters 32 102-04 General disclosures Location of operations 32 102-05 General disclosures Ownership and legal-form 32 102-06 General disclosures Markets served 6 102-07 General disclosures Scale of the organisation 3 27 102-08 General disclosures Information on employees and other workers 24 Principle 6 102-09 General disclosures Supply chain 13 102-10 General disclosures Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 4 102-11 General disclosures Precautionary Principle or approach 12 102-12 General disclosures External initiatives 10 102-13 General disclosures Membership of associations 10 102-14 General disclosures Statement from senior decision-maker 5 102-16 General disclosures Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 10 11 Principle 10 102-18 General disclosures Governance structure 9 102-40 General disclosures List of stakeholder groups 13 102-41 General disclosures Collective bargaining agreements 11 Principle 3 102-42 General disclosures Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 102-43 General disclosures Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 102-44 General disclosures Key topics and concerns raised 14 102-45 General disclosures Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 32 102-46 General disclosures Defining report content and topic Boundaries 16 102-47 General disclosures List of material topics 15 102-48 General disclosures Restatements of information NA 102-49 General disclosures Changes in reporting NA 102-50 General disclosures Reporting period 28 102-51 General disclosures Date of most recent report NA 102-52 General disclosures Reporting cycle 28 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 29 Disclosure Standards Title Chapter UNGC SDG 102-53 General disclosures Contact point for questions regarding the report 28 102-54 General disclosures Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 29 102-55 General disclosures GRI content index 29 102-56 General disclosures External assurance 28 103-01 Management approach Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8 16 SDG12 SDG13 103-02 Management approach The management approach and its components 17 Principle 1 SDG8 SDG13 103-03 Management approach Evaluation of the management approach 18 SDG13 201-01 Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed 26 SDG8 SDG9 204-01 Procurement practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers 26 SDG12 205-01 Anti-corruption Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 12 Principle 10 205-02 Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 12 Principle 10 301-01 Materials Materials used by weight or volume 19 Principles 7 & 8 SDG8 SDG12 301-02 Materials Recycled input materials used 22 Principle 8 SDG 12 301-03 Materials Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 25 Principle 8 SDG12 302-01 Energy Energy consumption within the organisation 20 Principles 7 and 8 SDG12 SDG13 302-04 Energy Reduction of energy consumption 20 Principles 8 and 9 SDG12 SDG13 303-01 Water Water withdrawal by source 19 Principles 7 & 8 305-05 Emissions Reduction of GHG emissions 20 Principles 8 and 9 SDG13 306-02 Effluents and waste Waste by type and disposal method 19 Principle 8 SDG12 SDG13 306-04 Effluents and waste Transport of hazardous waste 25 Principle 8 SDG12 SDG13 401-01 Employment New employee hires and employee turnover 24 Principle 6 SDG8 403-02 Occupational health and safety Injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities 23 SDG3 SDG8 404-01 Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee 24 Principle 6 SDG8 404-02 Training and education Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 24 SDG8 405-01 Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and employees 24 Principle 6 SDG8 408-01 Child labour Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 11 Principle 4 SDG8 409-01 Forced or compulsory labour Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour 11 Principle 5 SDG8 412-01 Human rights assessment Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 12 Principle 2 413-01 Local communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 26 Principle 1 415-01 Public policy Political contributions 11 Principle 10 416-01 Customer health and safety Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 25 417-01 Marketing and labelling Requirements for product and service information and labelling 21 25 SDG12 30 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 5.3. Glossary Bio-based plastics Materials made from biological and renewable IIRC International Integrated Reporting Council resources such as grain, corn, potatoes, sugar beet, LDPE Low-Density PolyEthylene sugar cane or vegetable oils PA PolyAmide Biodegradable plastics Materials that are degraded by microorganisms into water, carbon dioxide (or methane) PE PolyEthylene BRC Certification Industry-wide benchmark for Quality and Food PET PolyEthylene Terephthalate Safety in the UK PFTE Polytetrafluoroethylene, equivalent to TeflonTM Co-extrusion Process of combining the extrusion of multiple layers of often different materials through the same PPM Parts-per-million, 10−6 die into a single extrusion. During the extrusion Preform Injection moulded article where the neck finish is blow moulding process, a barrier resin (Nylon or in its final form and the body section can be later EVOH) is combined with HDPE through the use of transformed into the final container tie layer(s). Resin HDPE and PET, raw material purchased EVOH Ethyl Vinyl Alcohol S&OP Sales and Operations planning Fluorination Introduction of carefully controlled levels of fluorine during HDPE extrusion blowing process to create a SDGs Sustainable Development Goals PTFE like fluorinated barrier layer. UN (O) United Nations (Organisation) GRI Global Reporting Initiative UNGC United Nations Global Compact HDPE High-Density PolyEthylene ENVIRONMENTAL NOTE Appropriate UN Approval Corporate responsibility is at the core of practices in terms of communication. for dangerous goods IPACKCHEM globally commits to : Improve its environmental performance transportation Reduce its carbon footprint Make responsible use of natural resources Eliminate all negative impacts of its activities on threatened forests In line with the engagement, this document is published on certified paper PEFC/FSC. IPACKCHEM encourages electronic circulation of its 2017 Sustainability & IntePhoto credits : IPACKCHEM grated Report Content creation & Wording : MATERIALITY-Reporting This report was printed on paper made from 100% post-consumer recycled fibre. Layout & printing : MATERIALITY-Reporting October 2017 IPACKCHEM 2017 Sustainability and Integrated Report 31 GRI 102-01 102-03 102-04 102-05 102-45 Contacts IPACKCHEM GROUP SAS (head office) 73, Boulevard Haussmann 75008 Paris – FRANCE tel : +33 (0)1 53 30 77 10 www.ipackchem.com OUR PLANTS IPACKCHEM SAS IPACKCHEM LTD IPACKCHEM KFT IPACKCHEM OOO QUADRO IPACKCHEM DO Saint-Etienne Crewe Peremarton Kirovo Chepetsk PLASTICS LTD BRASIL LTDA FRANCE UNITED KINGDOM HUNGARY RUSSIA Randburg Paulinia-SP SOUTH AFRICA BRAZIL IPACKCHEM GROUP SAS Registered capital of 7,849,129 euros 799 279 625 R.C.S Paris Further information on the topics covered in the report can be obtained from Dr. Simon ROLLINS, IPACKCHEM Group Quality & Technology Director by email at : simon.rollins@ipackchem.com
