KMD CSR REPORT 2017 This report constitutes KMD Holding ApS’s statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility pursuant to section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act and on gender distribution in the supreme management body pursuant to section 99b. The report also constitutes KMD’s Communication on Progress in relation to implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. © kmd 3 Contents Foreword: The digital transformation is changing the world p. 4 Strategy: KMD on the move p. 6 Perspective: We are creating cohesion p. 8 Solutions for society: We are making a difference p. 10 Engagement: We are sharing our experience p. 16 Theme: Cyber and information security p. 18 Theme: Data protection and privacy p. 20 Theme: Employees and managers p. 22 Engagement: We are developing future competencies p. 26 Theme: Business ethics p. 28 Perspective: We are shaping the change p. 32 Theme: Climate and environment p. 34 csr report 2017 foreword 4 The digital transformation is changing the world S ociety, public institutions and private companies face constant demands for change. The boundaries for how resources are used are constantly moving. We challenge ourselves, and we are challenged by others. We have to deliver higher quality, work more efficiently and reduce costs. We must all reach out to where the opportunities and potential are greatest. New and more technology is not the solution to everything, but it is part of the solution. This makes KMD’s competencies and solutions within data, digitization, digital infrastructure and technology more relevant than ever. I am proud that KMD currently delivers highly complex services and solutions for both the public and private sectors. © kmd the digital transformation We support legislation and regulated areas with digital shortcuts. We have built up, administer and maintain large transaction values and volumes in order to deliver a critical and complex infrastructure. KMD handles payments of almost DKK 400 billion a year, which is equivalent to around 20% of Denmark’s GDP. In total, we ensure that more than 1.3 million citizens receive their benefits each month. More than 100,000 daily users of our health and social care solution handle relationships with citizens via 1 million citizen records. We support solutions that give more than 1 million consumers access to banking and financial services, and we handle more than 60% of the premium receipts in the Danish life insurance and market segment. 5 This is a huge responsibility. Since 2012, we have invested DKK 2.7 billion in new technology in order to ensure that authorities and companies are able to benefit from the potential of the digital transformation. KMD’s new investments and development are directed for the most part at using data and technology in new ways. In this respect, we have made good progress with establishing closer, open collaborations with customers and other partners to create value in a rapidly changing world. At the same time, we are focused on ensuring that the new technological possibilities also provide a basis for increased awareness of information security and privacy so that citizens and customers can continue to have digital trust and confidence in KMD. Just as they must also trust that KMD has a high level of integrity and business ethics in our culture and conduct. In this report, we also describe how KMD is living up to its pledge to comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact. My goal is that KMD should bring about simplification, change and progress through digitization and technology where it matters most. I am convinced that our approach to the digital transformation is enhancing the responsible development of our welfare state and businesses’ competitiveness. If you have any thoughts on this, please do not hesitate to contact me. Eva Berneke ceo, kmd csr report 2017 strategy KMD on the move At KMD, we are aware that our work impacts on society. 6 B etter services for citizens. New products for The unrelenting digital transformation customers. Rationalization of work processes. New digital and technological possibilities have come Stronger collaboration. Handling of new legislaonto our radar, and they are changing our approach tion. Better management and control tools. New types to digitizing processes and using data. KMD is workof competition. These are just some of the challenges ing with cloud, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and opportunities faced by public organizations and priaugmented reality and robotics to translate them into vate companies today. a Danish and Scandinavian context. More IT is not the answer to everything. But digital transThe technological possibilities are also bringing new formation can help with meeting new requirements and dilemmas and perspectives for society. In the coming addressing new challenges, so it is high on the agenda years, this will require a close dialogue and collaboration in a changing society. with customers, decision-makers and citizens if we are to maintain strong public digital trust and inclusion. KMD on more markets It is not just the world that is changing. So too is KMD. Our footprint We are a very different company today than we were just KMD’s main impact on society comes from our solutions a few years ago. Our monopoly on supplying IT to Danish for public authorities and institutions, organizations and local governments is history. This is good for KMD and private companies. This is what the outside world and our customers. Competition promotes development KMD are focused on – our development, operation and and change. maintenance of digital solutions, data handling and data protection. The solutions for society are described in Our strategy “KMD on more markets” means that we are “We are making a difference” on pages 10-15. collaborating with local governments, regions, government bodies and institutions. Added to this is our growKMD’s social engagement also comprises mentorships, ing market comprising a large number of medium-sized partnerships and donations in conjunction with relevant and large private companies in the Nordic countries. social players. Selected partnerships and initiatives are A market that we are continuously expanding through discussed in “We are sharing our experience” on pages acquisitions, including Banqsoft (2015), Edlund (2016) 16-17 and “We are developing future competencies” and, most recently, In2media group, which became on pages 26-27. Charlie Tango in 2017. KMD is moving beyond Denmark’s borders, primarily into Norway, Sweden and Finland, within both the public and private sectors. © kmd kmd on the move KMD has five major CSR themes that require special “ The digital transformation is changing everyday life for all attention. The reporting on the themes comprises relevant selected policies, actions and results from 2017. of us individually and society The themes are: as a whole. So we’re engaging in close dialogue to test out the new technologies together with customers and users. This gives a reality check on whether we’re on the right, responsible track.” 7 Betina Hagerup, executive vice president, strategy, technology & communication, kmd 1 2 3 Cyber and information security Data protection and privacy Employees and managers Handling and storage of customers’ data The use and sharing of data can give good KMD’s employees and managers, together entail a risk of hacking of central registers value for our public and private customers. with our technological partners, are as well as personal and company data. Our At the same time, we are fully aware of the platform for our ongoing success cyber and information security is therefore citizens’ rights to privacy, which we must and growth. The digital transformation of paramount importance for withstanding protect. Read more about this on pages is changing the nature of competency attacks and preventing security breaches. 20-21. requirements. KMD is therefore focused on This is described on pages 18-19. being a workplace that can attract, retain and develop the right competencies, as discussed on pages 22-25. 4 5 Business ethics Environment and climate KMD has a fundamental goal to contribute KMD’s persistent work with climate and positively to society, including operating environment has meant that we are able to responsibly and on fair and equitable reduce our energy and resource consumpterms. We therefore have clear policies, tion relative to our economic growth. frameworks and processes to ensure that Areas which make particular demands of we address the risks that we are faced our resources are powering offices and with. Pages 28-31 describe the initiatives operating centers, waste and transport, as we have launched, especially in relation to examined on pages 34-35. anti-corruption, competition law, tax and responsible supplier management. csr report 2017 perspective We are creating 8 cohesion K MD is continuously working to create cohesion for citizens across administrations, to optimize the efforts of local governments and regions, example, there are particular challenges, I can bring them up in the nursing discussions with the citizen. There are a lot of different needs, and it can be hard and to improve public services. Better cohesion is a coordinating it all. It’s important that we don’t say difrecurring theme in KMD’s solutions within areas such ferent things,” says Anne Marie Dalsgaard Sloth, a comas social, health, employment, and children and young munity nurse in slagelse municipality. people. The first teams of COPD patients have already comOne specific example comes from Slagelse, where KMD pleted the program. has helped create transparency and cohesion in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) rehabilitation. The project will be evaluated at the end of 2018, when scientific articles on the results of the project will be Better cohesion in citizen programs published. In Slagelse, the local government is working with the hospital in a cross-sector project to explore how to offer New challenge project citizens with COPD new options for rehabilitation. As KMD is developing cohesion solutions in close collabpart of the project, participants and employees from oration with the local governments. For example, Rudthe local government and the hospital communicate ersdal Municipality and KMD have jointly analyzed the via KMD’s online meeting tool. cohesion challenges in Rudersdal’s eldercare and are now ready to develop a digital solution that will ensure The tool is used for online training, individual discuscontinuous communication and general overview sions, education and café meetings for participants. across its administrations and, not least, between RudNurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and ersdal, citizens and relatives. other project employees also hold cross-disciplinary meetings via the platform. “It’s not necessary to meet up physically. We just log in, run through the patients and discuss how things are going to ensure that we’re pulling in the same direction. Often we also use each other for professional sparring in terms of how the rehabilitation is going and if, for © kmd we are creating cohesion 9 “ At KMD, we’re investing in developing digital welfare solutions that create better citizen programs and a platform for increased collaboration across local government administrations, between local governments and across sectors. There’s no doubt that cohesion in citizen programs is one of the major themes in the local governments and regions right now – and going forward.” Mette Louise Kaagaard, executive vice president, local government, kmd csr report 2017 solutions for society We are making a difference “ We’re working to ensure that the many complex laws reach the individual citizen. Correct payment at the correct time is our core service. KMD provides the IT to support almost DKK 400 billion in annual payments. This is a huge task that KMD has undertaken for 10 more than 40 years.” Ole Jensen, executive vice president, case & benefits, kmd D enmark is changing. The digital transformation being starting born day care has changed the public and private sectors in recent decades. Tasks and activities that just 10 years ago took days, maybe even weeks, to complete, can now be handled in next to no time. We often forget that in our changing world. Denmark is one of the world leaders in embracing digP-DATA KMD Institution/ ital opportunities. And KMD has been the focal point KMD Debitor for many of the developments, especially in the public sector. We are proud of that. getting married KMD is there from cradle to grave Citizens benefit from KMD’s solutions probably without realizing it. Our solutions are there through all phases of life, from birth to school, work, retirement and death – see illustration. When things run smoothly in the digital world, no one P-Data notices. In fact, under the transition agreement with KOMBIT (related to ensuring supply security in connection with exposure to competition of the previous buying monopoly systems), our solutions have an uptime a home of close to 100%, even though the agreement only requires 98% minimum. When you are working with billions of transactions and cases with complex work processes and regulation, errors occur. And that is also true for us; during 2017, KMD Easy Energy BBR-register KMD ESR © kmd we are making a difference it happened several times. When it does happen, we rectify errors quickly so that the individual customer and citizen are not excessively inconvenienced. In this regard, KMD is also engaging in dialogue with public decision-makers on the creation of a more digitization-ready legislation. A legislation that is more digitization-ready will be better able to optimize administration, improve citizen services and strengthen the rule of law. In 2016-2017, KMD was also involved with the government’s work on a new code for good customer–supplier collaboration. 11 starting getting the first starting further school credit card education KMD Stafetlog Banqsoft STADS KMD Elev DANS KMD Personale leasing starting looking voting in a car a job for a job elections Banqsoft KMD Sygedagpenge KMD Føniks KMD Valg KMD Opus KMD Aktiv KMD Perspektiv KMD Momentum getting retiring falling dying divorced from work ill P-Data KMD Pension KMD Nexus P-Data KMD UHB LIFELINK csr report 2017 solutions for society Our doors are open space for new solutions and innovation in local govSuccess for us is when things run smoothly for the ernments and regions. end user. We receive more than 10,000 visits from users annually at our locations, where we have the KMD supports the UN SDGs opportunity to instruct them and listen to how they At KMD, we work with solutions that support the see our solutions developing optimally. development of a number of the UN global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs comprise This open approach also now applies increasingly to 17 specific goals to which all the UN’s 193 Member the actual IT solutions. In previous years, KMD built States are committed. The SDGs entered into force solutions in silos to meet customers’ requirements. on 1 January 2016 and will set a course toward more But today it is a matter of creating connections and sustainable development up to 2030. digital platforms with open APIs (application programming interfaces). Here, other suppliers, such We are proud to help promote positive development. 12 as entrepreneurs, can integrate their solutions. This We do this by having practical solutions relating to is happening in the social and health area, among five prioritized goals and their respective targets. And others, where we integrate with more than 20 difwe often do it by building collaborations with public ferent other solutions via open APIs. This is providing partners – but also in dialogue with civil society. Goal: Ensure healthy lives and promote Goal: Ensure inclusive and quality educaGoal: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, well-being for all at all ages tion for all and promote lifelong learning sustainable and modern energy for all Target 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment Target 4.1 Target 7.1 of substance abuse, including narcotic drug By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys comBy 2030, ensure universal access to affordabuse and harmful use of alcohol. plete free, equitable and quality primary and able, reliable and modern energy services. secondary education leading to relevant Target 3.8 Target 7.3 and effective learning outcomes. Achieve universal health coverage, includBy 2030, double the global rate of improveing financial risk protection, access to qualment in energy efficiency. Target 4.6 ity essential health-care services and access By 2030, ensure that all youth and a subto safe, effective, quality and affordable stantial proportion of adults, both men and essential medicines and vaccines for all. women, achieve literacy and numeracy. © kmd we are making a difference Business model Through our digital solutions, we are helping to develop society within a large number of areas. We are thus playing an active role, in conjunction with public authorities, organizations, private companies and technology partners, in improving the day-to-day lives of citizens and users. Digitization is now universal, so this overview only presents our core activities and outputs, and does not cover our total contribution. See business model on pages 14-15 13 Goal: Promote inclusive and sustainable Goal: Promote peaceful and inclusive sociGoal: Revitalize the global partnership for economic growth, employment and decent eties. Provide access to justice for all and sustainable development and increase work for all build effective, accountable and inclusive resources for achieving the goals institutions at all levels Target 17.17 Target 8.2 Target 16.7 Encourage and promote effective public, Achieve higher levels of economic producEnsure responsive, inclusive, participatory public–private and civil society partnertivity through diversification, technologand representative decision-making at all ships, building on the experience and ical upgrading and innovation, including levels. resourcing strategies of partnerships. through a focus on high-value added and labor-intensive sectors. Target 16.9 By 2030, provide legal identity for all, Target 8.6 including birth registration. By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training. Target 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all. csr report 2017 Resources KMD’s core activities and solutions Technology Health and social Collaboration with • Helping professionals to help citizens with special needs – across sectors, administrations technological partners and institutions • Ensuring that citizen programs are coherent and creating overview of approved services and the supporting finances • Giving citizens access to their medical records • Supporting the legislation and national standards valid at any time, including the shared medication record and communication with GP and hospital systems Children, learning and education Human resources • Helping parents to register their children with day-care institutions and schools 3,000+ well-qualified • Ensuring easier administration and compliance with legal requirements, and providing technological employees, overview to managers in administrations, schools and day-care institutions domain and business • Enhancing pupils’ well-being and learning via a modern learning platform specialists, etc. • Coordinating the preventive effort across professional groups and administrations, and ensuring early intervention for disadvantaged children by local governments 14 Energy and utilities • Supporting the central processes in Danish energy and utility companies – from obtaining and handling meter data to collection and customer services • Helping energy consumers to optimize their resource usage and save both money and CO2 Development & innovation Across KMD: from KMD Venture to one of Benefits and payments Denmark’s biggest centers • Supporting sickness benefit refunds for employers and sickness benefit payments for for software development employees • Handling more than 30 different cash benefit rates in order to be able to pay out housing benefit and cash benefit • Handling the solution that pays out social pension to Denmark’s retired persons • Supporting more than 80 different public payment types • Operating NemKonto (the Danish bank account system for making official payments to citizens and companies) • Supporting payment of salary to public and private employees Stakeholders Involvement of end users Jobs and development and decision-makers at • Helping unemployed citizens into work by supporting job center employees’ work with operational and strategic plans, targets and progress surveys and improving communication with companies level • Helping unemployment insurance funds to get unemployed people into work, ensuring payment of unemployment benefit and helping trade unions to serve, advise and develop their members Life insurance and pensions • Supporting the drafting of life insurance and pension policies and agreements, and ensuring portfolio management, reporting, notifications and analysis • Handling premium payments Financial capital Huge investment in own Banking and finance software & acquisitions • Helping financial customers with insight and data, and strengthening the level of automation and self-service in customers’ solutions • Ensuring that financial companies are at the forefront in relation to customers’ requirements and expectations, and new legislation and compliance Elections and administration • Ensuring voting cards for voters in local government, regional, parliamentary and EP elections • Ensuring correct recording of voter attendance at polling stations, and handling digital reporting of vote counts • Ensuring documentation and archiving of general case-handling processes in public administrations © kmd Outputs Health and social • More than 100,000 daily users in local governments and regions use our solutions involving approx. 1 million citizens’ records • Used by more than 50 different professional groups – from social workers to PPR psychologists, educators, nurses, social and health assistants, dementia consultants, occupational therapists, warehouse employees and abuse consultants to economists and many others • KMD handles inter-local-government billing in the social area, involving more than DKK 8 billion a year Children, learning and education • More than 130,000 children registered annually for day-care services • 850 schools – and thus 300,000+ pupils, approx. 60,000 teachers and educators, and 370,000+ parents – use our learning platform • 503 schools use our digital pupil administration system • KMD helps young people to obtain qualified guidance on educational options. Approx. half of Denmark’s young people receive guidance on choice of youth education programs via brobygning.net 15 Energy and utilities • We handle data from more than 2 million meters across Denmark and ensure collection of DKK 20 billion annually for our customers • We help our customers with energy savings in the order of 15-25% by showing consumption in a transparent way and through collaboration with energy advisers Benefits and payments • We support payment of i.a. DKK 1.2 billion in housing benefit • More than 1.3 million citizens in Denmark and abroad receive social pension payments every month. Annually, we pay out more than DKK 150 billion in social pension payments • Overall, we handle approx. 43 million transactions a year involving payment of almost DKK 400 billion • We pay salary to approx. 1.1 million employees in the public and private sectors Jobs and development • We support 40+ local government job centers with their employment effort • We support almost 550,000 Danes in their membership of unions/unemployment insurance funds Life insurance and pensions • We support 12 out of 18 life insurance and pension companies in Denmark, and thus handle more than 60% of Danish premium receipts within life insurance and pensions Banking and finance • We support a financial customer with an end-to-end fully automated platform for more than 1 million end users Elections and administration • For the local government and regional elections 2017, KMD printed 4.3 million voting cards for Danes entitled to vote • 1,100 polling stations use our voting lists, and we handle postal votes comprising approx. 10% of the votes • KMD Valg supports reporting of results on national television on voting night • We support digital and mobile work processes in public authorities with the most common electronic case and document management solution csr report 2017 engagement 16 We are sharing our experience © kmd we are sharing our experience M anagers and employees at KMD are engaged in sharing their knowledge and experience with people outside the labor market, who find it difficult finding regular work. KMD engages in active mentorships, in which we bring our competencies into play. The road back for veterans Since 2016, KMD has been engaged in work between war veterans and the business community. The road from military to civilian life is by no means always easy for veterans who have been working for Denmark in the world’s war zones. A large number of resourceful veter“ ans have built up unique skills that have been proven under at times extreme conditions, but they often lack 17 guidance in converting these skills into a business context. “Velkommen Hjem” is an organization co-founded You can do an awful lot when by KMD that aims to create better conditions for vetyou’ve been in the armed forces, erans, partly by making its competencies available through active mentorship. but getting the civilian world to understand your skills can be In 2017, KMD implemented eight mentorships, five of really challenging. Mette [KMD’s which have concluded and resulted in a job. mentor] has helped me to trans“The challenges that the large group of resourceful vetlate my skills.” erans face when they want to switch to a civilian career have been overlooked in the past. As a company, we can Nicky Thyboe, help to address this social responsibility through menveteran, scrum master, kmd torships in which we contribute our core competencies, including our knowledge of what skills the business world needs,” says Søren Amund Henriksen, executive vice president, central government, kmd, and member of the board of Welcome Home. Help for others Since 2016, KMD has been working with the Danish Red Cross on refugee mentorships with the aim of integrating refugees more quickly into the Danish labor market. In 2017, KMD had 10 refugees in mentoring programs in Ballerup, eight of whom subsequently got into work, education or a meaningful internship. In addition to our social engagement in Denmark, KMD provides donations and mentorship to local children’s homes in India and Poland, where we have our global resource centers. In Poland, we also work with the organization Warsaw Family, with our employees voluntarily providing homework assistance to children with ADHD. csr report 2017 theme Cyber and 18 information security The digital transformation cannot today succeed without authorities, companies and citizens addressing the issue of cyber and information security. Access to and protection of information have always been a challenge. However, rapidly increasing digitization has significantly changed the need for security, and that need continues. © kmd cyber and information security H acker attacks are being professionalized, with What we have done criminals using more sophisticated methods by the day. And the threat is not just coming Conducted an exercise in business continuity from outside; increasingly, it is also coming through management (BCM) with the participation of KMD’s employees acting unguardedly and in violation of secutop management rity policies. The perpetual balance between user-friendliness and Begun implementing additional tools to improve security is thus becoming ever more crucial. Internally, security, including BCM tools and tools for conwe need to protect ourselves to the relevant extent, but ducting security awareness campaigns not to such an extent that we lose user-friendliness and, as a result, run the risk that users of digital solutions will Taken the initiative in the Danish ICT Industry Assocome up with their own ways to bypass security. ciation to introduce an industry code for countering hackers KMD handles a large amount of confidential and per19 sonal data for citizens, companies and authorities. Our Taken part in the Strategic Collaboration Forum for customers trust us to handle this data in a correct and Cyber Security organized by the Centre for Cyber safe manner. We therefore have strict internal security Security; this work will continue in 2018 requirements. Drawn up a training program for customers in No one can ever guarantee information security 100%. information security management in relation And that includes KMD. But our goal is to protect all the to control and governance based on a business data that we process, and for which we are responsible, perspective against cyberattacks and hacking. We recognize and take very seriously that it is our responsibility to help Improved the response time in our Security Anaprotect the data of companies, authorities and citizens lytics Center and set out further requirements for in the very best way. security initiatives that reduce the risk of being affected by hacker attacks. The result is that KMD We all depend on digital solutions round the clock. We has not been affected by the latest major internatherefore work with customers to create a balance tional ransomware attacks between threats, risks, user-friendliness and economy. The ISO 27001 standard on information security is a guideline for our work. Since 2014, KMD has been certified in accordance with the standard, and it is the focal point for our risk-based work with information security. “ Our license to operate rests on our responsibility for other people’s data. It’s therefore vital to have top-quality cyber and information security. KMD has invested in security, including our unique Security Analytics Center.” Jan Olaf Olsen, head of department, group security, kmd csr report 2017 theme 20 Data protection and privacy As a data processor for public authorities and private companies, KMD has a huge responsibility. We see data protection and privacy as part of our basic human rights. It is our goal to safeguard citizens’ rights in our work with digital solutions. © kmd data protection and privacy P rivacy has been on the agenda for many years, drawing up guidance on implementing the legislation both in Denmark and internationally. That is why and setting out guidelines, implementing role-based today we have national legislation on data proaccess control and rights management, and logging all tection. In Denmark, we have traditionally seen a high actions in the systems. level of trust in public authorities, so the gathering of data has not previously been a cause for concern or a major consideration for registered parties. What we have done Hacking waves involving financial and identity theft, together with increased commercial use and selling Continued with the Data Protection Officer of data, have intensified the focus on privacy. The EU function General Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force in May 2018, is a result of this. It builds on Begun implementing data protection through national data protection legislation, but imposes stricter design and standard settings 21 sanctions for breaches. Introduced the principle in relevant solutions How is KMD fulfilling its data protection of “from records access to case access” so that responsibility? citizens can more easily see their data in the public KMD is already working hard to protect citizens’ privacy. administration At the same time, we are working for increased use of data to create better cohesion, enhanced user experiMapped 150 areas/systems in respect of data proences and an improved decision-making platform for tection and subsequently drawn up an action plan the benefit of citizens and users. Provided training and instruction on the new We are making every effort to handle this occasional requirements for managers and employees who ambivalence as well as possible, and both aspects will are part of the implementation team that will be continue to be consistent with the EU General Data directly affected by the EU General Data Protection Protection Regulation. In future, authorities and comRegulation panies will face stricter requirements in terms of formulating the purpose for collecting and processing data, Conducted a webinar for more than 700 employfor example. The better the purpose specifications, the ees at KMD better the use of data. Developed a mandatory e-learning course on In recent years, KMD has worked to adapt its business processing personal data at KMD with the aim that processes and IT systems so as to comply with the new all employees should complete the course at the EU Regulation, and we protect the large amounts of perstart of 2018 sonal data that we process for our customers. This work will continue in 2018. Updated KMD’s agreement templates with new data processor conditions We have worked with new solutions in a number of citizen-centered areas, such as employment, health and Updated and signed a new data processor agreesocial, and institutions, with a view to increasing transment with our existing customers and suppliers; parency. We provide registered persons with access to this work will continue in 2018 their own case data, meaning that they can more easily gain access to the status of their case without needing to go through an access to public records process. In 2017, we worked with customers who are data controllers on how they should ensure compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation. This included csr report 2017 theme Employees and managers 22 For KMD, the rapid advance of new technologies, the emergence of new business areas and the ongoing responsibility for large parts of Denmark’s critical digital infrastructure make the development of employees and managers particularly important. I n recent years, technological developments our goal to ensure the right competencies for the tasks, have been taking place extremely rapidly, and today and tomorrow. customers expect innovative solutions deploying the latest technology. This creates a need for KMD An attractive workplace to develop the competencies of its employees and KMD is a diverse workplace, so it is important for us that managers. At the same time, the company operates all employees – regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, reliand develops a large part of Denmark’s critical digital gion and sexual orientation – are treated equally and infrastructure, which is based on older technologies. have the same conditions to do their job. This means a double need for competencies. We are keen that employees and managers should feel Multitrack career paths well and thrive at work. By providing a healthy workWe are addressing this challenge in part through our ing environment and implementing a range of healthtransparent career model for upskilling and retaining promoting initiatives, we are continually working to capable employees to undertake the various developreduce sickness absence and prevent stress-related ment tasks. illness. In 2017, KMD’s average sickness absence was 3.1%, an improvement on the 2016 figure of 3.3%. Our career model has six main IT tracks: architecture, consulting, delivery management, development, project For many years, KMD has been reorganizing the commanagement and testing. This helps create a mutual pany and its employees for the future. This has naturally understanding and relationship between manager and presented some challenges, which is reflected in the employee. This means clear career paths, so the indilevel of employee satisfaction. vidual can see what is needed in order to advance. This creates overview across the organization. The excelIn this light, employee satisfaction among KMD’s top lent opportunities for employees to develop their skills management has been identified as one of five comand interests mean that we fill one in five positions with pany-critical “must wins.” We have come a long way internal candidates. along the right path, including in respect of increased inclusion and strengthened dialogue, but we need to At the same time, we are actively working to onboard do even better. In 2017, we succeeded in improving the the smartest, best-qualified new graduates from Danish employee satisfaction score in our quarterly surveys and international universities. In so doing, it is always by an average of 2.7 index points compared with 2016. © kmd employees and managers What we have done In order to secure the right competencies “ KMD has a strong focus on attractRun the KMD Microsoft Academy – a special training and recruitment program for new graduates with a particular focus on Microsoft’s .NET ing and developing the most highly Run KMD Graduate – a two-year program in which skilled employees so that we can new graduates develop their talent through assignalways offer our customers the best ments, instruction, mentor meetings and a new technological solutions.” graduate network Peter Albrechtsen, interim vice president, Facilitated professional communities – networkhuman resources, kmd ing, inspiration and professional sparring across 23 the organization within selected technologies and domains What we have done In order to create an attractive workplace KMD has unique wide use of technology given that we Used continuous measuring of employee satisfacdevelop our own products and run major implementation and well-being through quarterly satisfaction tion projects within a large number of areas. We are still surveys and a comprehensive biennial well-being therefore an attractive employer that can offer a perfect survey to inform the dialogue between employees “playground” for employees and managers with a pasand managers sion for digitization and technology who want to make a difference for society. Implemented our Leadership Development Program at all levels Collaborated with the Danish Red Cross and Welcome Home on mentoring schemes Designed a campaign to encourage more fathers to take parental leave Turned the spotlight on health and well-being, including through a number of well-functioning social and sports clubs, and on participation in big events such as the “Engage” charity concert for veterans, KMD IRONMAN and KMD 4:18:4 Maintained KMD’s health scheme in which employees can benefit from free health treatments at work, for example Trained “stress spotters,” who are able to make an early intervention against stress Launched an online health test and, in collaboration with Danish pension fund Sampension, the Health Percentage online guide csr report 2017 theme Competencies 33 % 26 % 27 % Proportion of new recruits straight out of university or with little professional experience 45 Number of new recruits in the Graduate Program 27 19 24 2016 2017 2018 “ KMD is an attractive workplace, and our scope means there’s room internally to switch to other working areas or relocate to other parts of the country. We’re seeing today that the market has matured, the competition has got tougher, and conditions are changing. I think our immediate managers are doing a great job of creating a good workplace. They listen well and do a lot to promote good teamwork.” Bent Grøn, it service coordinator, operations, 30 years at kmd © kmd employees and managers Women at KMD Female role models can be beacons for KMD to attract KMD has set a goal for the share of female managers to even more women to the company both as employees be proportional to the number of female employees. In and managers. The proportion of women at KMD is cur2017, women made up 24% of all managers, so we can rently 34%. By comparison, women make up 24% of the do better. In support of our goal, more than 50 women industry as a whole. took part in KMD’s Leadership Development Program in 2017, making up 33% of all participants. Compared with the business community in general and the IT industry in particular, women are strongly repCurrently there are no women elected by the general resented at KMD’s top management level. In the top meeting on KMD’s Board of Directors. Our new goal is two management layers, there are 36% women, which to have two women on the Board of Directors, corremeans KMD is on the right track in terms of demonsponding to 33%, within the next four years, i.e. by 1 strating equal opportunities internally and providing February 2022. inspiration externally. 25 “ The graduate program grabbed my interest from the start. You become part of a network of young new graduates with the same starting point as yourself, and you get the specific training you need to be successful as a consultant. I also think it’s very exciting to be part of a company that’s in the middle of a cultural and business development process. I find KMD to be a secure workplace where people are really helpful and there’s a flat structure.” Line Ølund Friis, sap graduate 2017 csr report 2017 engagement “ We believe that gamification and computer-based skills tests also have great potential, and we really want to be a part of the developments at KMD.” Jan Gaardbo Jensen, vice president, children and education, kmd 26 We are developing future competencies © kmd we are developing future competencies T he steadily growing demand for IT employees CSR Initiative of the Year in Poland at the CEE Shared and increased focus on future IT competencies Services Awards. represent a challenge that KMD is keen to help address. “We prioritize collaboration with educational institutions so that through work placement programs and projects Coding in schools we can help train new talents and increase interest in IT In collaboration with a number of member companies development. At the same time, the activities are helpand local governments, the Danish ICT Industry Associing to engage our employees, while the work is raising ation created Coding Class to get coding on the timeawareness of KMD here in Poland.” table in Danish municipal primary and lower-secondary Jens Brinksten, ceo, kmd poland school. Coding Class comprises a one-year training program in coding for grade 6 pupils that ends with a Skills boost for users visit to a company. KMD is a partner in Coding Class and As Denmark’s largest welfare IT provider, we are not regularly hosts classes on company visits. only fulfilling our responsibility to digitize welfare and 27 ensure that future IT developers have the right skills. We The main aim of Coding Class is to get children interare also helping to ensure that the citizens who come ested in IT and technology, and give them a better across our solutions on a daily basis are able to cope in understanding of the world around them now and in an ever more digitized world. the future. In collaboration with DaneAge, we have therefore devel“It makes you confident about the future and proud of oped the e-learning courses “Get to know your PC” and the children when they present their final results.” “Get to know your tablet” to improve digital skills in the Carl-Erik Vesterager, elderly. The tools are used by voluntary tutors and othvice president, energy and utilities, kmd ers, and more than 154,000 course participants have used one of the tools since 2012. Research project on 21st century skills Pupils in municipal primary and lower-secondary school will be developing computer games. It will increase their motivation and strengthen the skills that will be crucial in the social life of the future. This is the goal of a research project led by researchers from universities, teaching institutions and private companies, including KMD. The project will explore how the use of analog and digital gaming tools such as Minecraft, Scratch and board games can improve pupils’ abilities to collaborate, communicate, think critically and solve problems. These skills are also known as 21st century skills, because they are of major importance for pupils’ potential to play an active part in future society. University students improve development skills In Poland, KMD runs a Junior Academy where, in the past two years, around 50 students from seven universities have been working on charity digital projects. Among other things, the Junior Academy has developed an app that helps elderly people to remember their medicine. In 2017, the Junior Academy was nominated for Top csr report 2017 theme 28 Business ethics KMD’s business ethics are part of our corporate social responsibility. Every single manager and employee has a vital role to play if we are to maintain a corporate culture where ethical conduct is a matter of course. © kmd business ethics O ur solutions are used because they win on What we have done price and quality in the market, not because of conduct that has given us unfair access to Trained all new employees in corporate complisupply them. So we are highly conscious of our culture, ance via e-learning policies and conduct. KMD’s work with business ethics is embedded in our top management, which is involved Trained relevant employees in acquired in prioritizing the risk-mitigating measures that are carsubsidiaries ried out. Implemented anti-corruption programs in KMD’s For KMD, information security, anticorruption and comsubsidiaries petition law are especially important and businesscritical themes that are addressed with a view to reducEvaluated KMD’s risks in relation to corruption ing risks. Information security is discussed in more continously detail on pages 18-19. 29 Run an internal “Say it!” campaign to promote the Competition law whistleblower program It is vital for KMD that our employees are familiar with the principles of competition law so that we avoid legal Carried out regular checks to ensure compliance infringements. After all, effective use of resources with internal policies and legislation through free competition is beneficial for companies, the welfare society and citizens. Trained more than 250 employees in competition law via e-learning Anti-corruption For a number of years Denmark has been ranked as the Run a campaign to maintain awareness of our rules least corrupt country in the world by Transparency Interon gifts national. At KMD, we do not want this to be a pretext for doing nothing. So we have a zero-tolerance policy in relation to corruption and bribery, including facilitation Corporate compliance programs include policies payments. We have a policy on gifts and entertaining within these areas: that sets out the conditions under which representa• Anticorruption tives of KMD may give or receive gifts, or pay for or allow • Competition law others to pay for meals and entertainment, when deal• Intellectual property (IP) rights ing with external parties. • Document management and storage • Information security Whistleblower program • Contractual risk management Transparency is one of the first steps on the road to put• Authorizations ting a stop to unethical conduct or careless actions.. It is therefore essential that people can report breaches to the Code of Conduct or policies easily and without worry. KMD’s whistleblower program is visible and easily accessible both for KMD and for the outside world. Employees, business partners, IT professionals and ordinary citizens have straightforward access via our website to report anonymously security risks and matters that are not in compliance with KMD’s Code of Conduct or policies within Corporate Compliance. Handling of whistleblower cases: 2016: 2 cases, 2017: 2 cases csr report 2017 theme “ Our business ethics principles are a foundation for KMD. No one should be in any doubt internally or externally about the integrity of our actions.” Mark Skriver Nielsen, senior vice president, group legal, security & corporate services, kmd 30 Supplier management What we have done Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the requirements that we expect to be met in our supplier chain. The code Ensured that the Supplier Code of Conduct is represents an important element of our procurement included in all procurement agreements signed by agreements. In order to achieve our objectives within Group Procurement human rights, security and anticorruption, for example, we need our suppliers to meet our requirements within: Updated our Supplier Code of Conduct • Human and labor rights • Health and safety Continuously screened our suppliers • Environmental protection • Business ethics Our suppliers are asked to register their company and submit information via an independent digital platform so that we can assess their policies and processes. We also carry out annual risk-based screening of our suppliers. This ensures that our suppliers meet our minimum requirements for corporate social responsibility. More than 85% of KMD’s purchases are from Danish companies, and we generally experience a high level of CSR compliance with our suppliers. If there are inconsistencies between our code and the supplier’s ability to comply, we first try to work with the supplier to resolve the issue. In principle, there may be cases where we then have to reject or cancel an agreement if we cannot accept a risk inherent in such an inconsistency. © kmd business ethics 31 Tax All Danish Group companies’ taxation is subject to DanKMD has drawn up a transfer pricing policy that accords ish tax and joint taxation rules, and it is KMD policy to with the arm’s length principle, as described in the OECD comply with these rules. KMD’s policy for Danish corpoTransfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, ration tax is thus independent of our ownership. and should ensure that the KMD Group’s internal trading complies with applicable rules. For the past five financial years, KMD has made total tax payments of DKK 387 million. Thus, KMD pays signifiGiven the above, profits or losses are thus not moved cantly more in corporation tax now than under the local across borders to minimize tax payments. KMD pays corgovernment ownership – up to three times as much. poration tax in the countries where we have companies. And that is with a lower corporation tax rate. More than 92% of the corporation tax paid in 2017 by the KMD Group can be attributed to Denmark. csr report 2017 perspective We are shaping 32 the change D igitization of companies and business models has opened up a range of new possibilities. What they all have in common is that you need the Citizens have a lot of options for customizing their pensions: How much will be paid in? When, how and how much will be paid out? Who will be covered? What about technological platform to exploit them. industrial injury, invalidity and sickness? These are just some of the key issues. All types of companies are therefore undergoing change, not least financial companies, which have parAt the same time, consumers naturally know how to get ticularly embraced the digital transformation – with all the most value for their money. This is good for individthe benefits, options and risks that it entails. ual and for competition in the market. Similarly, citizens have become much more used to The administration of Danes’ life insurance and pension availing themselves of digital possibilities. As a result, policies is no trivial matter. There is a wealth of systems companies and citizens can together intensify the digand processes both for observing applicable regulations ital journey for the benefit of all parties. and for providing the best service to citizens. “Stable delivery, disruption, cyber crime, better cusThe winds of change are also blowing through life tomer experiences, new products and services, and insurance and pensions. The regulations are constantly business optimization. Our customers are not short of changing, so our solutions have to comply with old and challenges. They are short of solutions and help with still applicable rules, handle new adjustments and be realizing their full business potential. KMD is with them able to incorporate future changes. the whole way.” Helle Huss, executive vice president, kmd business The needs of consumers are also changing toward a desire for far greater access to and insight into their Confidence for the future – insight for today pensions and portfolios. Insight now increases confiKMD is part of the Danish life insurance and pension dence and peace of mind for the future. system. In terms of the individual pension, this is in partnership with our subsidiary Edlund. We support more than half of Danes’ total premium expenditure on life insurance and pensions through our partnerships with the Danish pension and insurance companies. © kmd we are shaping the change 33 “ We’re seeing an increasing desire for greater transparency and increased self-service. Citizens want to have better insight into and understanding of their pensions – and at a time that best fits into their daily routines, which is usually outside the pension companies’ normal business hours.” Morten Bruun Steiner, ceo, edlund csr report 2017 theme “ Through efficient management and constant focus on energy efficiency, we can offer our customers an energy-efficient operating performance.” Alexander Zoffmann Jessen, head of department, facility management, kmd 34 Climate and environment KMD is striving to be a responsible climate and environment partner for our customers. We are therefore working systematically to reduce our climate and environmental impact, which primarily comes from our production and our employees’ behavior. © kmd climate and environment O CO2 emissions, tons ur biggest climate impact is linked to our IT operations. We are therefore working systematically to optimize our operations and develop our IT solutions in a climateand environment-friendly manner. At the same time, we know that KMD’s products can reduce traffic and paper 7,128.3 7,312.6 consumption, create overview of energy consumption and optimize operations for our customers. We therefore also see our products as one of our biggest assets in the work to give customers a greener footprint. 2,021 1,922 We routinely monitor our own consumption and environmental impact, including in respect of waste and waste sorting. If we identify opportunities for opti35 mization in areas that are assessed to be important, 2016 2017 2018 prioritized actions are agreed. These are exemplified in our environment and climate strategy, which is updated every two years. Energy consumption Transport We continuously monitor the environmental impact of our employees’ transport and seek to minimize it through use of Skype meetings, car-sharing, optimiza648 tons, of which 68.3% recycled 668 tons, of which 72.5% recycled tion of public transport to our locations and optimization of conditions for cycle commuters. 31,980,991 kWh 32,645,841 kWh What we have done Implemented the environmental management standard ISO 14001:2015 to cover all KMD A/S locations in Denmark Established biowaste sorting in canteens and introduced “follow me” printing, which reduces wasted prints – both schemes were introduced in 2015 Fitted sensors on waste containers to ensure they ELECTRICITY ELECTRICITY ELECTRICITY are only emptied once they are full WASTE WASTE WASTE Implemented the facility management system KMD Atrium in the operating center; combined with Energy Key, this ensures better monitoring of 2016 2017 2018 energy consumption and a better basis for environment-friendly decision-making Electricity consumption Waste produced and recycled csr report 2017 36 About KMD KMD is the largest Danish-based IT company. For more than 40 years, KMD has worked on the development, operation and maintenance of Denmark’s biggest IT systems. Today, KMD develops and delivers software and service solutions for local government, central government and the private sector in Denmark as well as selected segments in Scandinavia. The KMD Group has more than 1,500 Danish and international customers, including more than 800 Danish and foreign companies. The KMD Group has an annual revenue of around DKK 5 billion and around 3,500 employees. KMD is owned by Advent International and Sampension. Read more at www.kmd.dk. © kmd csr report 2017
