CommuniCation on ProgrEss 2017 renault-trucks.com Communication on progress 2017 Table of content Introduction Message from the President3 Renault Trucks4 PROgrESS Achivied in 2017 Principles regarding human rights 5 Principles regarding labour standards 7 Principles regarding the environment 15 Principles regarding corruption 21 1 Message from the PrEsident When it joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2004, Renault Trucks demonstrated its commitment to placing values that respect human rights and labour standards, protect the environment and help fight corruption at the core of its corporate responsibility and to promote them within its sphere of influence. Benefiting from a century of truck expertise in France, Renault Trucks provides the transport industry worldwide with tools it needs to perform tasks successfully and efficiently. We offer operators and users an extensive range of vehicles and services designed for a wide range of activities. As a manufacturer, we have considerable responsabilities towards our customers, partners, employees and fellow citizens. We are striving Bruno Blin for progress in sustainable mobility, by endeavouring to offer vehicles with ever-increased performance that are safer and more respectful President of Renault Trucks SAS of the environment. We ensure we design, produce, distribute and maintain them with utmost integrity, preserving the health of both our employees ans our living environment. I therefore re-confirm the commitment of Renault Trucks to comply with, implement and promote the 10 principles of the Global Compact in 2018. 2 Renault Trucks Renault Trucks performs its role as a manufacturer of industrial vehicles with integrity, in compliance with international regulations and according to the model of responsibility and sustainable development of the Volvo Group, of which it is a subsidiary. Based on the principles of the UN Global Compact, of which the Volvo Group has also been a signatory since 2001, this model also includes the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The contribution of Renault Trucks is consolidated at group level and forms parts of the Volvo Group Annual and Sustainability Report, as well as a supplementary report, the GRI G4, both available on www.volvogroup.com Renault Trucks sustainability is assessed by the independent rating agency Ecovadis. In 2018, the company was awarded a Gold rating for its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. Renault Trucks is now part of the top 5 percent of highest-rated companies. 3 PrIncipLes regarding human Rights 1. Supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Making sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4 PrInciples regarding human Rights Renault Trucks conducts its business in a responsible manner, in accordance with the principles set out in the Volvo Group's Code of Conduct. This mandatory policy is a reference that applies to all group directors and employees. The Code of Conduct, which was updated in 2017, the programme introduced to defend human rights sets out what is expected from all employees in in the supply chain, supplier performance in terms clear and practical terms. It covers the question of corporate responsibility is also evaluated. These of human rights and specifically deals with assessments are conducted by the centralised harassment, non-discrimination, health and safety structures of the Volvo Group and detailed in the in the workplace, freedom of assembly and union Volvo Group Annual and Sustainability Report. membership, working hours, forced labour and child labour. The Code of Conduct confirms the group's full support for the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. In addition, the Volvo Group is committed to implementation of the UN guiding principles on business and human rights. Renault Trucks directors and staff, together with all Volvo Group employees, are required to train in the Code of Conduct online by means of an intranet game called the Game of Conduct. Available in 14 languages, this game is completed by discussions on ethical dilemmas organised within the services and departments of the company. 75 % of the Renault Trucks SAS managerial staff underwent this Renault Trucks directors training in 2017. and staff, together Renault Trucks defends human rights both in with all Volvo Group its business and in the workplace by respecting employees, are required individuals and providing good working conditions. The company encourages diversity and does not to train in the Code of tolerate any form of discrimination with regard to Conduct online by means gender, race, religion, handicap, sexual orientation, of an intranet game called nationality, political opinions, union membership or social and ethnic origin. It offers its employees the Game of Conduct. a safe working environment, respecting freedom of assembly and collective negotiations. It does not tolerate either compulsory/forced labour or child labour. Respect for human rights is included in framework agreements signed with Renault Trucks suppliers. To avoid and minimise the risks of human rights violations, suppliers are evaluated according to their business sector and geographical origin. As part of 5 PrInciples regarding Labour standards 3. Upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Contributing to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Contributing to the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Contributing to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 PrInciples regarding Labour standards Renault Trucks scrupulously complies with labour law wherever it does business and acts in accordance with the Volvo Group Code of Conduct. • Non-discrimination Renault Trucks recruits and treats its employees without discrimination as regards gender, race, religion, age, handicap, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinions, union membership or social and ethnic origin. Diversity in the workplace is encouraged at all levels. • Labour law No form of forced labour, compulsory work or work by children is tolerated at Renault Trucks. The minimum age of hiring is the age of the end of compulsory schooling. Freedom of assembly, together with collective bargaining rights and the signing of agreements, is respected in all sites. • Working Environment All Renault Trucks employees are guaranteed an environment that meets all required health and safety conditions. Renault Trucks undertakes to actively promote health and safety, whether physical, psychological or social, in the workplace for its employees. 7 PrInciples regarding Labour standards Social dialogue Renault Trucks respects freedom of assembly and recognises collective bargaining rights. The company is committed to encouraging social dialogue at all levels and promotes relations of trust with its social partners, based on consultation and dialogue for the benefit of developing economic performance and the well-being of employees. In 2006, an agreement on social dialogue was During the year, 11 central works councils (CWC) drawn up and signed by all unions. This offers meetings were organised, together with 2 training social partners the resources to effectively perform commissions, 2 commissions on quality of life in the their role with respect to various organisations and workplace, 1 economic commission and 2 meetings negotiations, thereby developing quality dialogue with the board of management (including the between human resources teams, the management President) and a France group committee meeting. and social partners. In 2017, Renault Trucks and staff representation bodies negotiated 8 bargaining agreements, including on the Intergenerational Contract, the distribution of added value, a group retirement savings plan (PERCO), the right to disconnect, use of Renault Trucks and staff the time-saving account and a healthcare expense scheme. Twelve post-agreement commission representation bodies meetings were held. negotiated 8 bargaining agreements in 2017. 12 post-agreement commission meetings were held. 8 PrInciples regarding Labour standards Health and safety in the workplace Renault Trucks is continually endeavouring to ensure the health and safety of its employees. A Safety network, comprising 45 members perform annual assessments adapted to the specific correspondents, working conditions/safety features of the various sectors of the company. coordinators, specialists in ergonomics and doctors met regularly in 2017 to share good practice, draw Lastly, a health and safety manager was appointed up safety audits for each site, standardise behaviour to provide support for dealerships in the distribution and implement the current Health & Safety network throughout France. guidelines throughout the Volvo Group. In the field of psycho-social risks, Renault Trucks provided its organisations with three different assessment methodologies to enable them to A Safety network, comprising 45 members, met regularly in 2017 to share good practice, draw up safety audits for each site, standardise behaviour and implement the current Health & Safety guidelines throughout the Volvo Group. 9 PrInciples regarding Labour standards Combating discrimination and promoting equal opportunities Renault Trucks is committed principally through the negotiation of various agreements to implementing a Diversity and Inclusion policy based on 4 focal areas: equal treatment (equal opportunities based on competence, without distinction of gender, age, ethnicity or origin, religion, handicap, or sexual orientation) combating discrimination combating harassment a recruitment policy that promotes diversity • Employment and handicap Renault Trucks SAS and its social partners have The agreement, which is managed by the company's embraced the 9th Handi’Accord agreement for Human Resources Centre of Expertise and 2016-2018. This provides the framework for the coordinated by a network of correspondents, is company's undertakings as regards the recruitment, applied throughout the five Renault Trucks SAS sites integration, training, insertion, continued in France. employment and support of the handicapped. It also includes initiatives to promote specially adapted In 2017, Renault Trucks signed a Diversity and and protected work environments (such as the Handicap Charter with 5 partner temp agencies sheltered-employment organisation ESAT and and participated in ten special events involving the specially adapted companies) and measures to help employment of handicapped people. employees with handicapped spouses or children. In 2017, Renault Trucks signed a Diversity and Handicap Charter with 5 partner temp agencies and participated in ten special events involving the employment of handicapped people. 10 PrInciples regarding Labour standards • Gender equality A company agreement on gender equality, drawn up operators has increased, for example, representing in 2011, was renewed in 2015 for a further 3 years and 14 % of recruitment in engine assembly and 50 % in signed by 5 trade unions. This agreement included replacement part logistics. Renault Trucks is also undertakings on career promotions, the balance acting to promote careers for young women, especially between working lives and the exercise of family in technical areas. An example of this can be seen responsibilities and the development of inclusion in the high schools in and around Lyon, through the within staff teams. The agreement also encourages activity of the OPE (Objectifs pour l’emploi des cadres the expansion of internal networks, such as WIN en Région Rhône-Alpes) Association. (Women Inclusive Network), which was created to support the personal and professional development of women and promote diversity. In 2017, WIN had 407 members, 22 % of which were men. On a like-for-like basis, women represented 37% (42 % in 2016) of total recruitments in 2017 (including permanent contracts, temporary contracts, sandwich course employees, but excluding agency temps). The proportion of women in the workforce increased by 0.5% to 21.2 %. They represented 20 % of the management team, compared to 19 % in 2016. Seniors The proportion of (over the age of 50) accounted for around 25 % of the total workforce. A little over 4.5 % of recruitment women in the workforce involved those aged over 50. increased by 0.5 % to 21.2 % Specific gender equality action plans were carried out in 2017, particularly in the Manufacturing division. Renault Trucks is working alongside its temp agencies to ensure increased diversity of recruitment. The proportion of women hired as 11 PrInciples regarding Labour standards • Diversity and inclusion Renault Trucks, which has been a signatory to the tutoring) and employment of the over 55s (continued LGBT Charter (created by the Association L'autre employment, facilitating the latter years of careers, Cercle) since 2013, has undertaken to create an transfer of skills/knowledge and ergonomics). inclusive environment in France for employees Partnerships with schools have been strengthened concerned, as well as ensuring equal rights and and the support and follow-up provided for students treatment and supporting victims of discriminatory on sandwich courses has been increased. The comments or acts. This undertaking is fully in line company has continued its work on improving with the Volvo Group policy, which also supports a working conditions and reducing physical strain. worldwide internal LGBT network called V-Eagle. In 2017, young people represented 34.31 % of new All Renault Trucks sites actively took part in the 4th recruits on permanent contracts. The Engineering Diversity and Inclusion Week organised within the Graduate Programme, designed to target graduates, Volvo Group in October 2017. led to the recruitment of 6 engineers. Senior employees accounted for 6.55 % of all recruitments Renault Trucks signed a new 2017-2020 agreement and 24.9 % of the total workforce (permanent on the Intergenerational Contract introduced by contracts). French law in 2013. The agreement provides for new measures to promote the long-term insertion of young people aged under 30 (recruitment targets, induction and integration, mentoring and Renault Trucks is committed to ensuring equal rights and treatment and supporting victims of discriminatory comments or acts. 12 PrInciples regarding Labour standards • Diversity and inclusion In 2017, Renault Truck supported a range of in disadvantaged urban areas and ALPES, which initiatives in France to promote equal opportunities organises back-to-work projects for young people in partnership with a number of associations in in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. In addition, the the Lyon region. These included Article 1 to assist company has continued to develop relations with the students from underprivileged backgrounds, Social education sector to encourage closer ties between Builder to encourage women into digital careers, the schools and the company. Rhône Développement Initiative to support start-ups 13 PrInciples regarding The environment 7. Supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourageing the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 14 PrInciples regarding The environment Renault Trucks is continuously working to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment and contributing to the development of a sustainable system for transporting goods by road. Renault Trucks applies an environmental policy requirements with respect to local regulations, based on a management system that involves its covering the sorting and disposal of waste, distribution network, suppliers and partners. The consumption of energy and natural resources and company also plays a role in the group's longthe prevention of environmental risks. term environmental plan. The industrial facilities in France are organised to limit consumption of Renault Trucks also requires its suppliers and energy, water and raw materials, as well as reducing partners to be certified ISO 14001 or to have waste and ensuring continued improvement in implemented a programme of continuous progress. environmental performance. Vehicles are designed to maximise re-use of materials and all Renault In light of the challenges created by climate change, Trucks vehicles are assembled in ISO 14001 certified Renault Trucks develops and markets practical plants (first certification in 2001). solutions to effectively reduce CO2 emissions, including optimised diesel engines, all-electric Renault Trucks has introduced an operational vehicles, vehicles powered by natural gas, ecostandard throughout its distribution and repair driving training, fleet management tracking tools network of 1,440 service and sales outlets and embedded data worldwide. It sets minimum environmental All Renault Trucks vehicles are assembled in ISO 14001 certified plants since 2001. 15 PrInciples regarding The environment Protection of the environment on sites and in the distribution network Renault Trucks continued the rollout of its plan the use of its products and by 20 % for its logistics, all to reduce emissions and promote energy savings by 2020. At the end of 2017, energy savings already following its carbon footprint audit updated in 2015 totalled 102 GWh of the targeted 150 GWh. Between and the energy audits performed the same year. These 2012 and 2017, energy consumption per Renault initiatives will directly contribute to environmental Trucks manufactured vehicle fell 38 %. cooperation on reducing the carbon footprint . established in 2010 between the Volvo Group and the WWF. Under its WWF Climate Savers programme, the Volvo Group is committed to lowering its CO2 emissions by 8 % in production, by 40 million tons for Between 2012 and 2017, energy consumption per Renault Trucks manufactured vehicle fell 38 %. 16 PrInciples regarding The environment In 2017, plants, recycled and reprocessed 99.4 % Operations to provide information and raise of non-hazardous waste (95 % in 2012), as a result awareness of environmental issues are organised of ongoing actions to reduce the volume of waste, throughout the year for all company employees, as improved sorting and the sourcing of new recycling well as sector by sector, targeting specific activities channels. Sites are committed to a programme and departments. Renault Trucks organised a aimed at zero landfill waste and obtaining the Volvo series of events to mark the European Sustainable Group's own Landfill Free certification. Development Week from 29 May to 2 June 2017 and encouraged employees to participate in the WWF Production and logistics sites take the environment Earth Hour initiative on 25 March. into account in all their renovation or reorganisation programmes (changing processes or equipment, In 2017, Renault Trucks introduced environmental installing more efficient lighting, new boilers, clauses in contracts with its distributors and improving insulation, double glazing, etc.). In its organised the recovery of end-of-life utility vehicles plant in Bourg-en-Bresse (Ain-France), Renault in its network in France, in compliance with Trucks signed a partnership with an Intercommunal regulatory requirements. Association to help rehabilitate a watercourse running through its site. In 2017, plants, recycled and reprocessed 99.4 % of non-hazardous waste. 17 PrInciples regarding The environment Sustainable transport of goods In 2017, Renault Trucks continued market being tested in real operating conditions for the distribution of products and services that render delivery of fresh produce in city centres. road transport more efficient and help reduce its effects on the environment, notably via the Renault Trucks D Wide CNG with horizontal exhaust, designed for the distribution sector. In the field of electro-mobility, Renault Trucks has prepared its future range of zero-emission vehicles by supplying the French haulage company Delanchy with the prototype 13-ton fully-electric Renault Trucks D Wide. Equipped with a refrigeration unit that is fully powered by the vehicle's traction batteries, the truck is Renault Trucks has prepared its future range of zero-emission vehicles by supplying the French haulage company Delanchy with the prototype 13-ton fully-electric Renault Trucks D Wide. 18 PrInciples regarding The environment Renault Trucks has continued its research into improving the energy efficiency of trailer trucks Renault Trucks has explored the potential of by launching FALCON, an experimental project metal additive manufacturing as an engine to develop a complete heavy goods combination manufacturing process. Renault Trucks that reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions engineers demonstrated that this technology by 13 % compared to a standard coupling. could be used to reduce the number of parts of a Technological developments focus on the 5-cylinder engine by 25 % and reduce its weight optimised aerodynamics of the truck and trailer proportionally by 120 kg. Lighter engines use less combination, connected low rolling resistance fuel, thereby reducing CO2 emissions. tyres and predictive energy-saving driving aid and fuel management functions, together with Lastly in 2017, Renault Trucks organised the 4th an improved powertrain using a new-generation edition of its international Optifuel Challenge Rankine heat recovery system and optimised eco-driving competition, attracting 2,500 drivers lubricant formulations. from 30 countries. Renault Trucks provided its customers with over 3,000 hours of eco-driving Testing continued of the UrbanLab2 laboratory training. vehicle, conducted as part of the EDIT (Efficient Distribution Truck) project that aims to reduce distribution vehicle consumption by 13 %. Based on a Renault Trucks D Wide model, this vehicle is fitted with a low-voltage micro-hybrid system that recovers part of the braking energy to drive auxiliary equipment. It also connects to traffic lights, enabling it to anticipate changes in the lights to set a speed profile that minimises fuel consumption. Renault Trucks won the “Low Emissions Driveline Award” for this project, awarded by the LUTB Transport & Mobility Systems cluster and the PFA Automotive Industry and Mobilities, which brings together representatives from the road transport and automotive industries in France. 19 PrInciples regarding Corruption 10. Working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 20 PrInciples regarding Corruption Renault Trucks attaches significant importance to The Anti-corruption programme is based on its credibility worldwide and conducts its business identifying and reducing risks through appropriate ethically and in compliance with the laws and training and processes. These corruption risks are regulations that govern its activities. The fight established in accordance with sales distribution against corruption is an area in which compliance models, the type of client and the country involved. with laws is of primary importance. It is in the They are continuously evaluated to ensure the interest of Renault Trucks to combat corruption, programme remains relevant. Inspections are since such practices distort the normal forces regularly performed on commercial partners and of competition and prevent transactions from are a key element in reducing risks. In addition, the being agreed under normal terms of profitability. programme sets out specific procedures governing Corruption is harmful to the governance, reputation the signing of contracts. and ethics of Renault Trucks, as well as exposing the company and the individuals concerned to prosecution for serious wrongdoing. To protect its reputation, Renault Trucks belongs to the Volvo Group anti-corruption programme, which consists of a range of rules set out in a series of internal documents, including the Code of Conduct and the Anti-corruption Policy, as well as a wide range of tools for training, dialogue, advice, assistance and auditing. Its aim is to anticipate attempted corruption and prevent Renault Trucks and its partners from becoming involved. 21 PrInciples regarding Corruption Renault Trucks is prohibited from offering any Any suspected breaches of the Anti-corruption awards or benefits to its customers, prospective programme must be reported to the Volvo Group clients, governments, government agencies or the anti-corruption programme manager, who then representatives of these entities, which breach reports the acts to the authorities concerned, applicable laws or generally accepted commercial if appropriate. The manager is also available to practice. This prohibition specifically targets the answer any questions regarding implementation of use of third parties to make unjustified payments, the Anti-corruption programme. As stipulated in the directly or indirectly, to international public sector Code of Conduct, in the event of a conflict between employees, government officials or to related applicable local laws and the provisions of the Code, individuals and institutions. local law prevails. The Anti-corruption programme applies to all In 2017, the majority of sales contracts between Renault Trucks employees, together with its Renault Trucks and its distributors worldwide, commercial partners and agents, in all geographic whether renewed or newly established, were areas in which Renault Trucks has a presence. subjected to an anti-corruption audit and the Training in the content and requirements of the drafting of the contract included anti-corruption Anti-corruption programme is available. They can clauses. view Anti-corruption programme documents on the Renault Trucks intranet accessible on computers provided, including those located in specific offices and on production lines for employees that do not use computers in their daily work. Training for staff in the sales, financial and legal departments is The Anti-corruption priority and mandatory. programme applies to all Renault Trucks employees, together with its commercial partners. 22 renault-trucks.com Renault Trucks SAS with a capital of €50 000 000 954 506 077 RCS Lyon 23
