20 August 2018 ASX Market Announcements Office Australian Securities Exchange 20 Bridge Street Sydney NSW 2000 Sustainability Report Attached is a copy of the Woolworths Group Sustainability Report which was released today. For further information contact: Media: Woolworths Group Press Office: +61 2 8885 1033 Woolworths Group Limited ABN 88 000 014 675 Woolworths Group Limited ABN 88 000 014 675 Tomorrow. Together. 2 0 1 8 S US TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Contents 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Chief Executive Officer’s message2 Our Group Purpose3 Woolworths Group 2020 commitments4 Our journey6 Materiality8 Our business10 2 PEOPLE: ENCOURAGING DIVERSITY 12 3 PLANET: FOR A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT 24 4 PROSPERITY: FOUNDED ON TRUSTED RELATIONSHIPS 38 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 56 Sustainability metrics56 Workplace metrics58 Corporate governance65 Glossary66 United Nations Global Compact67 Global Reporting Initiative68 Assurance Report71 Store analysis75 Company directory 76 SCOPE OF REPORT: Unless otherwise stated, this report covers all our operations in Australia and New Zealand for the 2018 financial year – 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 (FY18). Only workforce data (excluding safety) is included for our global sourcing offices in China, Bangladesh and Thailand. This is an interactive PDF designed to enhance your experience. The best way to view this report is with Adobe Reader. Click on the links on the contents pages or use the home button in the footer to navigate the report. At Woolworths Group, we believe that becoming more sustainable is the only way forward. We are listening, and we know how important our approach to sustainability is to our customers, team and communities. But we cannot achieve the change that is needed alone. We understand the responsibilities we carry and are committed to working with all of our stakeholders to create better experiences together, that better people’s lives. Better for customers by providing safe, reliable and responsibly sourced products Better for teams by providing a workplace that celebrates the power of diversity in all its forms Better for communities by supporting each and every community we serve across the Group Better for suppliers by fostering long-term, trusted relationships Better for shareholders by delivering sustainable value creation in our business We are proud of our achievements but know there is much more to do, and we will. Together. 2 Chief Executive Officer’s message Throughout the year, our team has been working hard, making significant steps towards our 2020 commitments. Throughout the year, our team has women in senior roles in our business, been working hard and have made and we are very early in our journey on significant progress towards achieving, sustainable packaging. or even better exceeding, our 2020 We know from practical experience that sustainability commitments. ‘being green’ is not easy, and we cannot Our strategy, and approach to achieve what we need to achieve alone. Woolworths Group is sustainability, is increasingly at the We are committed to working together a signatory to the United core of who we are as a business – together as one Woolworths Group Nations Global Compact and a brand. We are committed to team, together with our customers and (UNGC). UNGC signatories being a purpose-led organisation and together with our other partners to increasingly we evaluate all of our better our customers’ lives. embrace a set of core values decisions through this lens – will this in the areas of human decision be better for our customers, Our success will be determined on our rights, labour standards, our teams or our communities? promises kept, not our promises made – and we’re committed to providing genuine, the environment and We are proud of the work we have transparent reporting on our progress. anti‑corruption. In this achieved this year, including achieving report, we share our Gold Tier Employer status in Australian I am pleased to share with you our 2018 Sustainability Report. performance against the Workplace Equality Index for LGBTI inclusion, removing single-use plastic UNGC core values. bags from all our Australian stores, and reviewing our responsible sourcing framework. Equally, we acknowledge that in other areas we must do better, Brad Banducci such as increasing the representation of CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 3 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Our Group Purpose SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 r experience Our Ways-of-Working te bette s to How we work Our Purpose ea ge Why we exist W ec r th e We r. 1 PERFORMANCE s w ay as ork e alwving on o e HIGHLIGHTS We d im ’re -en pr -to nd eam t 2 We put our customers 1st ep g PEOPLE ke e s ou t t hi n We ple, re ra I ca th s i m r sto ew w ith g e c p in g fo en or in ri g h re d te e c i a l s We e do m k a m ly f r e f ra m he ee s ot pl y a sd 3 ay lw Ia Our Values Who we are PLANET I li ste n a n d l e a r n Woolworths Group We put our customers at the heart approach to safeguarding the 4 of everything we do, and we are human rights of the workers PROSPERITY is a diverse group of embracing new ideas and new in our supply chain. businesses united by thinking to enable us to be agile, Because we listen and learn, our common purpose. adaptive and ready to meet the we have removed single-use evolving needs of our customers. plastic bags from our stores, We create better experiences together, Our Core Values define who we are and what we stand for and our as our customers have told us this matters to them 5 that better people’s lives. SUSTAINABILITY Ways-of-Working describe how Because we do the right we work and have been carefully thing, we are trialing new These important words METRICS put together to help us ensure technologies to further are the anchor for all of that we are building the right reduce the greenhouse culture and conditions for all of our our team members – we footprint of our operations. businesses to succeed. know that without a sense We also have a genuine Our sustainability work is about of purpose we cannot commitment to build trust making a positive contribution, achieve our full potential. and living our values: through our actions, rather than our words – this report Because we care deeply, we presents some of our are implementing an updated achievements from FY18. 4 Woolworths Group People 2020 encouraging diversity We value diversity across Woolworths Group. Our customers should see in our commitments people a reflection of themselves and their communities. In this strategy we embrace targets that support diversity and, hand in hand with this aim, tolerance and respect. Promoting gender equity Launched in February 2017, our 2020 Strategy brings new 1 At least 40 per cent of executive and senior manager positions to be held by women. focus, resources and energy 2 No salary wage gap between male and female to sustainability. employees of equivalent positions on a per-hour rate at all levels of the company. The targets assigned under our People, Planet and Embracing our diversity Prosperity pillars cover 3 100 per cent of those responsible for hiring new Woolworths Group’s engagement team members to have completed unconscious bias training. with customers, communities, supply chain and team members, 4 Continue the focus on encouraging cultural as well as our responsibility diversity, with a commitment that by 2020 the Woolworths Group team will truly reflect to minimise the environmental the communities we serve. impact of our operations. Supporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment 5 Proportion of Indigenous team members to equal Federal Government Employment Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our Store Operations team members will be Indigenous. 6 Proportion of Indigenous Graduates to equal Federal Government Employment Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our Graduates will be Indigenous. Creating a safe environment 7 We are committed to maintaining a workplace that safeguards the health and wellbeing of our team members, customers and visitors. Creating opportunities for all 8 Achieve Gold Tier employer status in Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. 5 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Planet Prosperity SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 for a healthy environment founded on trusted relationships We recognise Woolworths Group’s environmental We will focus on positive relationships with impact across our value chain and will work with our suppliers, give back to the communities suppliers, service providers and operations to innovate in which we operate, and rebuild trust for a healthy planet. We will support the move to a circular economy, source environmentally sustainable with our customers and investors. 1 commodities and respond to climate change. PERFORMANCE Moving to a circular economy Working with our business partners HIGHLIGHTS 9 Towards zero food waste going to landfill. 15 We will achieve a top quartile ranking in how we engage fairly and equitably 2 10 Improve the recyclability of our with our suppliers as measured by own brand packaging and contribute independent supplier surveys. to the circular economy. PEOPLE 16 We will focus on a best practice compliance system according to the Global Social Sourcing environmentally Compliance Program. We will collaborate with sustainable commodities peak organisations to improve workers’ lives. 3 11 Source key raw materials and commodities sustainably to an independent standard Giving back to the communities by 2020. We will raise awareness in which we operate of sustainably sourced products. PLANET 17 We will invest the equivalent of 1 per cent of a three‑year rolling average of total Group 12 Achieve net zero supply chain deforestation Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) for ‘high-impact’ commodities in our own in community partnerships and programs. brand products, such as palm oil, timber, pulp and paper, and packaging. 4 18 We will publicly report social impact to quantify the positive changes we are PROSPERITY Responding to climate change creating with a focus on health, economic 13 development and emergency relief. Reduce Woolworths Group’s carbon emissions to 10 per cent below 2015 levels. Creating shared value with our customers 14 5 Innovate with natural refrigerants and 19 reduce refrigerant leakage in our stores We will achieve leading customer by 15 per cent of CO2-e below 2015 levels. satisfaction scores. SUSTAINABILITY 20 We will inspire our customers to METRICS consume all of our products in a healthy, sustainable way. 6 Our journey Woolworths Group Launch 2020 Commitments In February 2017 we launched our 2020 strategy, setting out our sustainability journey. Achieved: Unconscious Achieved: Woolworths Group bias training LGBTI Inclusion Board 50% Women Unconscious bias training pilot Awarded Gold Tier employer The Woolworths Group Board is program completed. Planning status in Australian Workplace gender balanced with 50% women. for rollout across the Group. Equality Index for LGBTI inclusion. People Planet Prosperity Country of Energy Responsible sourcing Origin labelling management framework We were the first supermarket Commence work on establishing Reviewed and launched our new to commence labelling our own the Energy Management Centre Responsible Sourcing framework brand products. of Excellence. including a Responsible Sourcing Policy and Standards. Reduce food Achieved: waste to landfill 1% EBIT community contribution Assessing climate Re-committed our goal to change impact reduce food waste to landfill. 1% of EBIT donated to community causes across Undertaken science based Australia and New Zealand. modelling for our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Product renovation Achieved: Removing artificial colours, Emissions flavours and added MSG reduction and reducing saturated fat, sugar and sodium across 2018 carbon emissions 13% own brand products. below 2015 levels 2016 2017 2018 7 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Achieved: No salary wage gap Salary wage gap between male and female employees of equivalent positions reduced to 0.41% (statistically insignificant) Achieved: Indigenous Team members 1 Reconciliation Destination Zero PERFORMANCE 1,875 new Indigenous team Action Plan members have joined Maintaining a safe environment HIGHLIGHTS our business through Launch our revised for customers, team members, employment parity program. Reconciliation Action Plan. suppliers and visitors. 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET Towards zero Plastic bags food waste Sustainable supply chain Australian stores no longer offer single-use lightweight plastic National roll out of the Good Food, Rescue and Recycling Source key raw materials and commodities sustainably to an 4 shopping bags. program to all our supermarkets. independent standard. PROSPERITY Animal Transparent welfare labelling Natural refrigerant Number one retailer in Australia on animal welfare. All eligible own brand products will display a Health Star Rating. 10 natural refrigerant systems installed and 15% leakage 5 SUSTAINABILITY reduction achieved. METRICS Health Day Top supplier survey rating Hosted our first collaborative Health Day in Australia and Achieve top quartile rating in New Zealand. independent supplier survey for fair and equitable engagement. Macro Wholefoods market relaunch Relaunched our better-for-you 2018 2019 2020 Macro brand. 8 Materiality The issues that matter To focus our efforts and maximise our impact, we Initiative Standards 1 reporting requirements and includes need to understand the issues that matter most to our the following steps: stakeholders. This is done through our materiality • Desktop review of a range of information sources assessment process. A robust sustainability materiality • Engaging with both internal and external stakeholders process can help us to: • Prioritising what the most material issues are, including • Build better relationships with stakeholders analysis of whether these present risks/opportunities • Ensure global megatrends and local market conditions are over the short or longer-term time horizons being used to assess and approach risks and opportunities • Internal validation by senior leaders and board. • Prioritise what to focus on strategically. This chart maps the 11 most material issues identified in our The approach we have taken to analyse Woolworths recent materiality assessment, grouping them into our three Group’s material issues aligns to the Global Reporting strategic pillars of People, Planet and Prosperity. STRATEGIC PILLAR MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION RELEVANT SDGS The success of our business is built on our people, therefore we must Employee continue to focus on attracting, retaining and developing talented teams, People engagement and today and into the future, as the nature of work continues to evolve. This development also includes our continued focus on maintaining a safe environment for our team members and customers. We are committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive Diversity and People inclusion workforce in terms of gender, age, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, etc. Assessing and managing “ethical” and “responsible” issues embedded Sustainable supply Planet chain within our supply chain and other third-party partnerships, including both social and environmental issues. Implementing effective and meaningful waste management strategies, Waste and Planet packaging including our activities to help our customers manage their own waste and recycling. Organisational responses to risks of climate change; both physical Planet Climate risk and transitional. Maintaining a values-based business with a culture of good governance Corporate conduct Prosperity and ethics and ethical conduct, where culture supports the effective functioning of core systems and processes. We understand the responsibility that comes with the role our business Trust in Woolworths plays in communities across Australia and New Zealand. We put our Prosperity Group customers at the heart of everything we do at Woolworths Group and are committed to getting it right, and to make things better when we don’t. Providing a healthy and ethical environment, where customer (and Responsible Prosperity gaming community) interests are protected from the harmful consequences of problem gambling. Upholding human rights across all aspects of our operations, Responsible sourcing encompassing labour rights associated with our workforce, contractor Prosperity and human rights and third-party relationships and in the supply chain; in addition to protecting rights to privacy for our own workforce and customers. Community Sponsoring a meaningful role in the local communities where our Prosperity engagement and businesses operate, including activities to engage, invest and develop development local communities. Partnering throughout the supply chain to build collaborative Third‑party relationships with suppliers, interest groups, media, government Prosperity relationships and other stakeholders, for the purpose of delivering sustainable development outcomes. 1 Refer to appendix for GRI Index. 9 WOOLWORTHS GROUP The materiality assessment considered all of our business units and a broad range of stakeholders including customers, team members, government, investors, peers and suppliers. Inputs included customer insights, team surveys, strategic priorities and targets, the Advantage Report and traditional and social media reviews. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals 17 global goals set by the United Nations in 2015, the SDGs define global sustainable development priorities and aspirations for the planet. They seek to mobilise global efforts around a common set of goals and targets. We believe that the business community has a role to play in progressing these important issues, and we have aligned our material issues with the relevant SDGs. Materiality Matrix 1 The Materiality Matrix shows the interest stakeholders had in the issue (y-axis), the time of potential impact (x-axis) and the consequence of the issue to Woolworths Group (size of the bubble). PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE Corporate conduct Waste and and ethics packaging 3 Trust in Woolworths Group PLANET Responsible gaming Responsible sourcing and human rights 4 Stakeholder interest Sustainable PROSPERITY supply chain Climate risk Employee engagement and 5 development Third-party SUSTAINABILITY relationships Diversity and METRICS inclusion Community engagement and development Time KEY:  People  Planet  Prosperity 10 Our business All parts of the Woolworths Group have been working better together to deliver the achievements described in this report. Woolworths Group Woolworths Group manages some of Australia’s and New Zealand’s most recognised and trusted brands. We endeavour to create a world-class experience for customers across all our stores and platforms. PAGE PAGE Promoting gender diversity 14 NSW Container Deposit Scheme 29 Pay Parity Project 14 Leading Australian retailer in animal welfare 32 Supporting our people 16 Responding to climate change 34 Inclusive leadership training 16 Refrigeration Management 37 Resourcing the Future Indigenous Understanding our suppliers 40 Employment Program 18 Our commitment to human rights 42 Indigenous Youth Employment 18 How we did in FY18 43 National Reconciliation Week 19 Grievance and remedy 43 Our focus on mental health 20 Minimising duplication 43 Safety and Health 20 Multi-stakeholder collaboration 43 AWEI Gold for Woolworths 22 Support through natural disasters 46 LGBTI engagement 23 Fighting hunger in Australia 48 Laura Merraine 23 Supply chain 49 No more plastic bags 28 Voice of Customer 51 Woolworths Supermarkets We are Australia’s largest supermarket chain and operate 1,008 supermarkets across the country. Australian Food also includes FoodCo, Metro and WooliesX. PAGE PAGE Refugee Employment Program 17 Making an impact 44 Labeeb Ena 17 Red Shield Appeal 46 Back of house 21 The Paynes 47 Reducing food waste to landfill 26 Sourcing locally 50 Our hunger relief partnerships 27 Jim’s Jerky, Queensland 50 Improving our milk bottles 28 South Melbourne Dim Sims, Victoria 50 Soft plastics recycling program 29 The next generation of supermarket 51 Removing plastic from produce 29 Making healthier easier 54 Committed to a sustainable supply chain 30 Inspiring for a better future 54 Better bags 31 Signposting healthier options 55 Pulp, paper and timber 31 Stakeholder engagement 55 Sustainable beef 31 Growing a “good food” team culture 55 Sustainable packaging 31 Reducing prices 55 Palm oil in non-food 31 Deakin University’s Health Rating for RSPCA Approved chicken 32 Supermarkets Report 55 Cage-free eggs 32 Improving the nutrition of Woolworths Matuszny family, Manning Valley, NSW 33 Food Range 55 Sustainable supplier of the year 41 Recognition55 11 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Endeavour Drinks Endeavour Drinks comprises 1,545 stores, including the Dan Murphy’s, BWS, Cellarmasters and Langton’s brands. PAGE PAGE Meet the makers: Women in wine 15 Tank temperature control upgrade 35 Jawun Indigenous Community Program Improved equipment 19 21 Making an impact Responsible service of alcohol 44 52 1 PERFORMANCE Packaging recycling 29 HIGHLIGHTS 2 New Zealand Food PEOPLE Our Countdown branded supermarket chain has 181 supermarkets across New Zealand, serving around three million customers every week. New Zealand Food also includes 69 franchise FreshChoice and SuperValue Supermarkets. White Ribbon accreditation PAGE 15 Making an impact PAGE 44 3 Safe Shift, Every Shift 21 Making healthier easier 54 PLANET LGBTI inclusion 22 Health New Zealand 54 Food rescue 27 Stakeholder engagement 55 Plastic reduction 29 Growing a “good food” team culture 55 4 PROSPERITY Portfolio Businesses BIG W BIG W provides Australians with great value across 183 stores, as well as online 5 SUSTAINABILITY choices for general merchandise. METRICS PAGE PAGE Women in management 14 Working with our suppliers 40 Tracking our heritage 16 Making an impact 44 LED lighting 36 Hotels ALH Group is a market leader, operating 323 hotels, including bars, dining, gaming, accommodation and venue hire operations. PAGE PAGE Making an impact 44 Responsible gambling 53 12 “As soon as People I started working for Woolworths I felt like I’d Encouraging become a diversity part of the community.” Our diversity and inclusion work is a manifestation of our purpose – by celebrating diversity in all its forms, we can create better experiences together, each and every day. The commitments in our People pillar are powerful examples of how we are living our values, and are underpinned by the vision for our teams to mirror the communities they serve. Proud @ Team Woolworths members Group Network 1 1,700+ members 201,000+  30% from FY17 Total recordable injury Voice of Team frequency rate (TRIFR) engagement score 14.16 82%  17.46% from FY17 consistent with FY17 1 A network of team members creating a supportive environment across Woolworths Group for our team and customers who identify as LGBTI or are supporting Allies of the LGBTI community. WOOLWORTHS GROUP PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 METRICS Labeeb Ena, Woolworths Supermarket Liverpool. 14 Promoting IMPACT: gender equality Commitment Commitment 2 1 At Woolworths Group, we are building a culture that allows Sustainable our team members to enjoy the same rewards, resources Development Goal and opportunities, regardless of gender. Promoting Pay Parity Project gender diversity Gender should not be a factor when we make decisions on rewarding WOMEN IN Woolworths Group has a strong representation of women across our team members. Continuing MANAGEMENT on from last year, a further step our business, both in support and change was achieved in phase operational roles, with over 50% of two of the Pay Parity Project in our workforce being female. We are Australia when a review of salaries committed to improving female was completed in September 2017. representation in executive and senior management roles. This resulted in an additional 545 team members receiving a salary This year, we have appointed increase. This means the pay gap several women to senior positions between male and female team including: Samantha Kim – members carrying out like-for-like General Manager, Group Risk roles has decreased to 0.41%, which & Assurance, Tricia Ho – Head is statistically insignificant. At BIG W, we’re proud to say of Treasury, and Cristie Gordon that 60% of positions on the – Head of Property & Facilities. BIG W Executive Committee While we are proud that half are currently held by women, of our board is represented by representing an improvement women and 50% of our total of over 10% from last year. workforce are women, we understand there is still much to do to improve the representation of women at senior levels of the organisation. Women represent 41% of roles at manager level and 32% of senior leadership Board Diversity and executive roles. To increase this, we have various initiatives underway to improve the working environment in order to attract and retain high‑performing women. This includes updating our parental leave policy  Female 50% and providing more flexible  Male 50% working arrangements. 15 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 White Ribbon accreditation Countdown has gained accreditation for its ongoing work to support team and family 1 PERFORMANCE members impacted by family violence. Countdown is one of the HIGHLIGHTS first companies in New 2 Zealand to introduce a Family Violence Policy and has provided access to additional paid leave PEOPLE for team members impacted by family violence; ensuring free 3 counselling is available to those who need it and providing practical Australian women winemakers with host Samantha Brett. support such as changing PLANET rosters or transfers to accommodate changes of circumstances 4 as needed. There will also be continuous extensive MEET THE MAKERS: PROSPERITY training for managers to assist them to understand the policy, WOMEN IN WINE including the signs of Winemaking has traditionally been a male-dominated industry, family violence and how to approach and talk to team but female winemakers are on the rise in Australia. 5 members who may be To celebrate this, Cellarmasters brought together some of the impacted by it. best female winemakers in the country for the inaugural Meet SUSTAINABILITY the Makers: Women in Wine consumer tasting event in Sydney METRICS A domestic violence on International Women’s Day on March 8. policy is currently in development to be “There are so many amazing female winemakers in Australia, so we rolled out across the wanted to take a day to celebrate them, and give consumers a chance rest of the Group. to taste some exceptional wines on International Women’s Day,” explained Christine Ricketts, Cellar Director at Cellarmasters. Tickets to the event sold out two weeks prior, and generated national media coverage and awareness of the changes occurring in the industry. 16 Embracing our IMPACT: diversity Commitment Commitment 3 4 We believe that a strong workforce embraces diversity Sustainable in all its forms, and is underpinned by a culture of inclusion Development Goal and participation. Supporting INCLUSIVE our people LEADERSHIP TRAINING Woolworths views learning and In order for our workforce to reflect the communities we serve, it is important for development as an essential our leaders and managers to be trained in inclusive leadership and unconscious investment in its future bias. Building off the pilot, the inclusive leadership workshops were launched this growth. We are committed to year, targeted at senior leaders and all managers with responsibility for hiring providing opportunities for all decisions. Over 420 leaders have completed the training so far, which is designed our team members to achieve to help leaders develop constructive and inclusive behaviours to truly leverage their goals and progress their the diversity of their teams to drive business growth through higher engagement, careers through continued higher innovation and greater productivity. learning and development. Our training opportunities The workshops: include apprenticeships, our • Illustrate how diversity and inclusion is an enabler of business success in the formal coaching program and future of work. management and leadership • Provide an overview of unconscious bias and how it limits the diversity of teams training programs for future leaders of our business. We also • Demonstrate the importance of role-modeling inclusive and understand that during their constructive leadership behaviours, values and processes in hiring decisions careers with us, our team members and people management go through various stages in life, • Develop strategies and actions to help leverage diversity in teams. such as parental leave or preparing for retirement. To assist, we In the next phase, we will roll out this training to career levels 2 and 3. provide various tools and access This will cover approximately 7,500 leaders. to support programs, such as the Career Planning Toolkit and the Retirement Planning Toolkit. Voice of Team Tracking our heritage engagement score Our strength is in our diversity and in our recent 82% engagement survey 63% of our team members declared their ethnic heritage. This information – coupled with details of demographic data at store level – will be used to assess whether BIG W reflects the community it serves. consistent with FY17 17 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE Labeeb Ena, Woolworths Supermarket Liverpool. 3 PLANET LABEEB ENA Woolworths Supermarket, Liverpool, NSW Refugee Employment Labeeb, a 37-year-old man from Iraq arrived in Australia only three months before being accepted into the Woolworths Refugee 4 PROSPERITY Program Employment Program. Labeeb owned and ran a supermarket for many years in Iraq and continued working in supermarkets when his family were forced to flee to Jordan. As well as working In an effort to reflect the in retail, Labeeb also worked as an English language teacher in Iraq. culturally diverse communities we serve, Woolworths has implemented a program in Although Labeeb has high levels of written and conversational English and extensive experience in the supermarket industry, this 5 program was the first time anyone had responded to his application SUSTAINABILITY partnership with Community Corporate to provide to work in the sector. Labeeb explained that the day he received the phone call inviting him to interview for the program was one METRICS employment opportunities for displaced refugees of the happiest days he had experienced in Australia at that time. from Syria and the Middle “Finally someone believed in me again. When I came to Australia East and contribute to and no one wanted me to work for them, I felt like nothing, useless, successful settlements. no purpose. Now I can show Australia what I can do.” During FY18, three refugee Labeeb’s job at Woolworths Liverpool has granted him programs were successfully independence from the welfare system and enables him to support completed with a 100% his family. One day, Labeeb hopes to be a store manager and lead employment conversion rate a team once again. – all 45 refugees commenced employment in our Metro and supermarket stores. 18 Supporting IMPACT: Aboriginal and Commitment 5 6 Torres Strait Islander Commitment Sustainable employment Development Goal We are proud to have achieved both Commitment 5 and 6 by recruiting and retaining more Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander team members this year. Resourcing the Future Indigenous Employment Program INDIGENOUS We are proud to announce that we have achieved our commitment YOUTH of recruiting over 1,600 new Indigenous team members, with EMPLOYMENT 1,875 Indigenous Australians commencing employment with us across 528 stores. 54% are in regional and remote areas and we have achieved a commendable retentional rate of 74%. We will Woolworths is proud to be be continuing our partnership with the Federal Government and providing job opportunities Diversity Dimensions to build on the success of this program. to young Australians. This year, we achieved our commitment to have 2% of our graduates be Indigenous. We did this by reviewing our current recruitment process to identify and NT remove any barriers 114 SUCCESSFUL PARTICIPANTS QLD to successful recruitment WA 409 SUCCESSFUL PARTICIPANTS and also developing a 329 SUCCESSFUL PARTICIPANTS Graduate Engagement SA Strategy with early careers 139 SUCCESSFUL PARTICIPANTS managers. Going forward, NSW & ACT we are exploring other 676 PARTICIPANTS SUCCESSFUL youth employment options, VIC & TAS such as apprenticeships 208 SUCCESSFUL PARTICIPANTS or internships, to provide opportunities for young Indigenous Australians. 19 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Jawun Indigenous SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Community Program NATIONAL Endeavour Drinks continue to strengthen their partnership RECONCILIATION WEEK with the Jawun Organisation, this year providing three secondees to remote and inner city Aboriginal organisations. By supporting Indigenous people to deliver To mark National Reconciliation Week in 2018, their own strategies and vision, secondees provide Trevor Eastwood and Jason Douglas, two world-class corporate skills in return for a life-changing mentors in Woolworths Group’s Resourcing experience unattainable in any boardroom. the Future Indigenous Employment Program, invited senior leaders and team members “As one of these secondees I was privileged to spend six weeks in North East Arnhem Land working with the Gumatj 1 PERFORMANCE at our Norwest Support Office to co-create Corporation in remote Gove. The Jawun experience truly is a an artwork. At the heart of the painting is a two‑way learning journey. Utilising my hands-on experience HIGHLIGHTS central meeting place surrounded by people in workplace health and safety, I worked on auditing and gathering together to share ideas. This developing safe work represents Woolworths Group’s purpose of practices for their varied creating better experiences together. The large curved lines represent our values (I care businesses. In return I was welcomed into one of the 2 deeply; I listen and learn; I always do the right PEOPLE most generous communities thing) running throughout our businesses and with a deep respect for store network across Australia. The multitude their land and heritage.” of smaller colourful dots permeating the Rebecca Polley, BWS canvas are a representation of the diversity of team member. Australia and the communities we serve, which our network of stores plays an important role Rebecca Polley, BWS, in 3 in connecting with locally. North East Arnhem Land. PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS National Reconciliation Week mural 20 Caring for the safety IMPACT: and wellbeing of our Commitment 7 teams and customers Sustainable Development Goal We are striving to continuously improve the safety and wellbeing of our customers and team so that Safety we can provide them with the safest possible shopping and working environment. Mental Health First Aid This training equips team members with the skills to recognise and engage someone who may be Our focus on suffering the effects of poor mental health and get that person the help mental health that they need. We have over 1,000 trained mental health first aiders SAFETY Mental health is our number across our business, with the aim of AND HEALTH one safety, health and wellbeing extending the program in FY19. priority. We aim to establish a culture where psychological Woolworths Wellbeing Portal safety is as important as physical A professionally curated online safety. We have implemented resource for team members several initiatives and continue to access health and wellbeing to build innovative programs information, including physical, to assist our teams and their mental and financial. families. These include: Lifeline Team Assist Woolworths is investing $1.3 million A confidential, free and unlimited over the next three years with psychological support service Lifeline to establish a text-based for team members and their solution for crisis support for the immediate families. community. It is aimed at people who do not feel comfortable with Woolworths Financial calling and speaking to a person Wellbeing directly. Woolworths believes this This program provides financial will have a positive impact on male support for team members team members. coping with unexpected financial stress. The service R U OK? Day was developed with Good Several of our businesses were Woolworths uses ammonia gas Shepherd Microfinance and engaged in the nationwide refrigeration systems for meat, offers no establishment fee, R U OK? Day activities. Fuel produce and dairy items. An interest free loans up to & Metro were involved with integrated safety upgrade of $2,000 to team members the organisation Conversation an automated King valve and a for goods and services. Team Convoy, in which R U OK? staff and high pressure cutoff switch for members are also offered ambassadors stopped at selected emergency shutdown has been free and confidential Debt fuel sites around the country to completed across the Group. Advisor services. educate our team members. 21 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Back of house Improved equipment The back of house is the foundation of the store. Everything that ends up on our selling floor needs to pass through To further reduce the risk of manual the back of house. The back of house is used for multiple handling injuries, BWS have introduced purposes, including receiving and storage of palletised springloaded scissor-assisted trolleys loads, preparing fresh cuts, and waste management. and a mini pallet beverage system. The ‘back of house project’ commenced in February 2018 The trolleys are easy to maneuver and to reset the standard for our back of house areas. The team reduce the need to bend while moving established the need to conduct a pilot to test and refine the methodology. The pilot was conducted in 50 stores between February and June 2018. stock. The mini pallet system is designed to minimise double handling of stock. 1 The objectives of the reset included: PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS • Improving workplace safety in the back of house • Segregating people and material handling equipment • Engaging team members through their involvement in the changes • Providing an identified storage location for all items stored 2 PEOPLE and activities conducted • Eliminating bottlenecks • Reducing waste. 3 PLANET Safe Shift, Every Shift Our Distribution Centres are busy places where thousands of pallets of stock are shipped in and out every day, creating risks of team members being injured by moving machinery or vehicles, products 4 PROSPERITY falling from height and manual handling. While measures are in place to prevent these risks from causing harm, this year our team identified three actions that could help improve safety. 1) Connect the team – To make sure that everyone looks out for their own safety and the safety of their team mates, this connection was achieved by focussing on bringing our multi-cultural team together under the mantras ‘Everyone Counts’ and ‘Safe Shift, Every Shift’. 5 SUSTAINABILITY 2) Simplify rules and communicate them clearly – Our teams collaborated to define the most important safety rules at each site, and created methods to communicate METRICS them to the team so that they would be remembered. These methods included video, large format posters, branded personal protective equipment and rule books that were translated into the different languages spoken by our team. 3) Demonstrate the consequences of not following the rules – To demonstrate the importance of following the safety rules to our teams, we decided to make safety personal. We developed a communication campaign that simulated life-changing injuries to two team members at each site. Billboards were installed at each site showing the impact of the injuries, and videos were published in the lunch rooms of the sites where team members explained the impact the simulated injuries could have on their lives. The improved connection between teams and simplified rules are helping our team to have a Safe Shift, Every Shift. 22 Creating IMPACT: opportunities for all Commitment 8 Sustainable Development Goal We are proud to announce we have achieved Gold Tier Employer status in the Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) LGBTI for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) Inclusion inclusion – two years ahead of schedule. AWEI Gold for Woolworths Woolworths Group is proud to be the first retail organisation LGBTI inclusion to be recognised as an AWEI Gold Tier Employer at the 2018 Countdown has this year Australian LGBTI Inclusion Awards. This event recognises continued to support New Australia’s top organisations for LGBTI inclusion and celebrates Zealand’s largest Pride Month leaders, individuals and networks that have made a significant event, the Ponsonby Pride impact on LGBTI inclusion within their workplaces. The award is Parade in Auckland, as well as also incredibly significant for our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, participating in and supporting achieving our target two years ahead of schedule. the Wellington Pride Parade for the first time in 2018. We are Over the past year, a great deal of work has been undertaken working directly with Rainbow to progress LGBTI inclusion by Woolworths senior leadership Tick to help educate our team, and the Proud @ Woolworths Group network. This included an and are striving for Rainbow organisation-wide policy review, hosting educational LGBTI events, Tick certification, which we holding training sessions for team members and leaders, entering expect to achieve next year. In into a sponsorship agreement with the Sydney Gay & Lesbian our February Voice of Team Mardi Gras and supporting marriage equality. survey, Countdown introduced At Woolworths Group, we will continue to create an inclusive a question asking our team culture where all of us are free to bring our whole selves to work, members whether they identify and where our customers find a welcoming and open environment. as LGBTI+. Results showed that those who do identify as part of the LGBTI+ community have lower engagement and advocacy scores compared to the rest of team, which is concerning. In FY19 we are holding a series of workshops with LGBTI+ team members as part of our Rainbow Tick assessment, which will also enable us to identify any factors that are contributing to this gap so that we can address them and continue to 2018 Australian LGBTI Inclusion Awards. build a supportive and inclusive workplace and team culture. 23 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 “I love working here, but I realised it was time to stop forcing my daughter to share this secret. I had to come out no matter 1 PERFORMANCE how hard it would be. But Woolworths HIGHLIGHTS backed me 100%. I hadn’t imagined 2 they’d be this good.” PEOPLE Laura Merraine, Distribution Centre IT Support Technician. 3 PLANET LGBTI engagement LAURA MERRAINE Distribution Centre IT Support Technician Momentum in LGBTI inclusion has 4 continued to build at Woolworths Group. During the year our Proud network membership grew to over 1,700 members; a Laura Merraine, Distribution Centre 30% increase in membership from last financial year. IT Support Technician, has felt firstPROSPERITY hand the true impact of our inclusive A key highlight in 2017 was Wear It Purple Day, when more than workplace culture when she transitioned 2,500 stores across the Group celebrated the event to raise gender earlier this year. After 12 years awareness of LGBTI inclusion and the importance of supporting with Woolworths, Laura (then known as LGBTI youth. 5 Laurence) worked with the People team In December 2017, 12 senior leaders participated in a tailored and site management to put a plan in LGBTI training session run by Pride in Diversity. In that same place for her to transition at work. SUSTAINABILITY month, members of the Proud Network and Diversity & Inclusion When the time came, Laura was team presented at three sessions of the Pride in Practice supported with dignity and respect by her METRICS Conference on our LGBTI inclusion journey. We also launched the colleagues, which provided her with the Woolworths Group gender transitioning policy and guidelines. confidence to bring her true self to work. In February 2018, Woolworths Group activated the ‘Join She says, “I was pleased to see that the Proud Crowd’ stall at Mardi Gras Fair Day as part of our last year, Woolworths Group launched sponsorship of Mardi Gras 2018. The stall was a huge success a Gender Transitioning Policy and with over 3,000 visits from the crowd to sample our rainbow guidelines for managers to assist slushies and learn about LGBTI inclusion at Woolworths. Proud team members who are transitioning. @ Woolworths Group also appeared prominently in the Mardi This shows how supportive Woolworths Gras 40th anniversary commemorative magazine and we will is in this space and I know that many team look to continue this partnership with Mardi Gras into 2019. members will rely on this policy to assist their journey in the future”. 24 Planet For a healthy environment We recognise the environmental impact that our operations may have on planet. We know that we can be leaders through the decisions we make, and every day we are exploring opportunities, trialling new initiatives and innovative technologies to improve the footprint of our business. Total Odd Bunch Stores with upgraded kilograms sold since hybrid or HFC-free launch in Dec 2014 refrigeration systems 100M 341 Solar power 2018 carbon generation emissions 2,211MWH 13% below 2015 levels 25 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 “Aligning solar panels with a Tesla battery is just another way Woolworths is learning and exploring new ways of doing things.” 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Michael Shelley, Group Energy Manager with the solar panels on our Erskine Park DC. 26 Moving to a IMPACT: circular economy Commitment 9 Sustainable Development Goal This year, we continued to implement our initiatives to reduce food waste and build on our food rescue partnerships to provide food relief to those in need. Sustainable Development Goal Mullumbimby. Learnings from these stores were then applied to a wider trial group of 20 stores, with beneficial outcomes: • Sharing the “why” of food rescue and recycling is of key importance to team engagement • Realistic timelines were established for successful behaviour change • Current and future capacity constraints of all stakeholders were identified. Through the trial process we also reviewed our data strengths and shortfalls and have now developed a data-capture tool that provides visibility of food waste diversion quantities and diversion methods, down to a store level. All Supermarkets are now executing this new program to deliver best-practice source ‘Reducing Food Waste to separation and diversion of this Landfill’ program being rolled out at Woolworths surplus to help feed people in Supermarket Lidcombe. need, to farmers for animal feed and to commercial programs for the composting of organics. to reducing food waste to As of the end of FY18, 96% of our Supermarkets were landfill with the development operating one food diversion of a new operations program program, and by the end of for execution in FY19. 2018, all of our Supermarkets Reducing food Through a test and learn will have at least one waste to landfill approach, we piloted our food waste diversion ‘Reducing Food Waste to program in place to help This year saw significant Landfill’ program in Woolworths them achieve quantifiable progress on our commitment Lidcombe and Woolworths diversion targets. 27 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our hunger relief partnerships Through FY18 we built on our longstanding partnerships with Food rescue OzHarvest, Foodbank and FareShare through developments in our food diversion processes, along with fundraising campaigns Countdown has continued in our stores. Along with contributions made by Woolworths, this its focus on reducing waste fundraising support helps these organisations cover operating across its business, with costs and increase their capacity. We also spoke to our teams and 13,142 tonnes of waste going customers about the issue of hunger in the community to build to landfill due to stock loss general awareness and engage hearts and minds to the cause. FY18 saw the 10th anniversary of our partnership with FareShare, initiatives, food rescue and farmer diversion programs. 1 PERFORMANCE which grew from a trial of food rescue at two stores, to now involve 100% of Countdown stores more than 100 Victorian Woolworths stores and the regular donation operate a food rescue HIGHLIGHTS of fresh meat from the Woolworths Meat Company in Truganina. program, which in FY18 donated $2.3 million of This partnership enables Woolworths to support the provision food to charity partners and of 80,000 meals per month for vulnerable people in Victoria. This is food that otherwise might have ended up in landfill but is now foodbanks and $1.8 million of food scraps to farmers. 2 being turned into meals by FareShare, in what is Australia’s largest charity kitchen. PEOPLE FareShare’s operations rely on an army of volunteers, with many OzHarvest of our team providing hands-on support to help prepare wholesome, well-balanced meals for people in need. Woolworths is also supporting the expansion of FareShare into Queensland, and with our support they are finalising construction 2015 50 3 of a new community kitchen in Brisbane. This new facility will be five Woolworths stores participated PLANET in donating to OzHavest times larger than their Melbourne facility, with capability to provide five million meals annually for those in need. The future looks bright for the next 10 years of the Woolworths FareShare partnership as we work together to rescue surplus food and turn it into free, nutritious meals for many of the 3.6 million 100,000 meals per month 4 PROSPERITY Australians in need of hunger relief each year. 2018 345 5 Woolworths stores participated SUSTAINABILITY in donating to OzHavest  690% from 2015 METRICS 400,000 meals per month  400% from 2015 Total food relief diverted Woolworths team volunteering at Fareshare. to people in need 8.12m meals 28 Moving to a IMPACT: circular economy Commitment 10 Sustainable Development Goal Across the Group, we have been looking at ways to remove or reduce plastic packaging and provide opportunities for our customers to recycle and contribute to the circular economy. Improving our milk bottles No more plastic bags During the year we improved The removal of single-use plastic bags has been a very important the sustainability of our topic for our customers and our team, which is why we have own brand milk bottles. We phased out single-use plastic bags at all our checkouts throughout converted our 3L milk to the Woolworths Group store network. lightweight bottles in NSW, Dan Murphy’s and Cellarmasters in Australia were already SA and Southern QLD, single‑use plastic bag free, and as of 20 June 2018, so are all which has removed nearly Woolworths Supermarkets in Australia. BIG W stores followed 400 tonnes of plastic from soon after on 1 July 2018. New Zealand Countdown stores have circulation per year. This also resulted in a decrease commenced the phase out and will be single-use plastic bag free in damaged stock, leading by the end of 2018. to less food waste. To make it easy and affordable for our customers to make the We have also condensed the move away from single-use plastic bags, we will be offering information on our milk labels the Bag for Good™ at both our Woolworths Supermarkets and so there is only one label per Countdown stores. Once customers have purchased the reusable bottle, rather than one on shopping bag and used it until it wears out, they can bring it back the front and back, reducing to one of our stores and we will replace it for free, no matter when about 50 tonnes of material it was originally purchased. We will recycle the old bags in the weight a year. This saves designated soft plastic recycling bins in our stores, allowing them to be approximately 7,500km of repurposed into products such as benches, bollards and speed bumps. labels (and an additional 7,500km of backing paper), plus the production and transport of the labels. Waste diverted from landfill (tonnes) 292,831t 29 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Waste intensity (t/square metres) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 27 28 26 24 Soft plastics NSW Container recycling program Deposit Scheme 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We have expanded our Woolworths is the first partnership with REDcycle, retail partner to the NSW and from June 2018, all of our Container Deposit Scheme 1 Australian supermarkets Network Operator, providing offer soft‑plastics collection. a voucher redemption Customers can return items solution for customers as well PERFORMANCE such as biscuit packets and as supporting the roll out of pasta bags, which cannot be reverse vending machines HIGHLIGHTS recycled at home. To date, (RVM) across NSW. To date our customers have returned the majority of containers 125 tonnes of soft plastic returned have been via REMOVING PLASTIC for recycling. The plastic is processed by REDcycle, then Woolworths affiliated RVMs. As other states come on board, FROM PRODUCE 2 PEOPLE sent to Replas to be turned with Queensland going live in into items such as school play November 2018, Woolworths equipment, street furniture will continue to make it and car park bumpers. convenient for customers to return and redeem. 3 PLANET Our customers are telling us they want to see a reduction in plastics across our store, particularly on fruit and vegetables. We make efforts to use our packaging 4 as efficiently as possible, and PROSPERITY Packaging recycling Plastic reduction the packaging we do use is designed to preserve the product In our drinks business, On 5 June 2018, Woolworths throughout the supply chain. we continue to look for New Zealand signed a New However, we have been listening 5 opportunities to improve the Zealand Government-led and we are working hard to identify and realise opportunities recyclability of our packaging pledge to transition to to reduce excess plastic. – we are targeting 100% 100% reusable, recyclable recyclable packaging for our or compostable packaging During the year, we delivered over SUSTAINABILITY own brand products. We have in our own brand products 180 tonnes of plastic reduction, a glass lightweighting initiative by 2025 or earlier. for example we removed the METRICS underway at Vinpac which will plastic tray and replaced it with a The same day, Countdown reduce our Pinnacle brands’ cardboard tray for organic apples announced we would no and sweet potatoes. There is usage of glass by 843 tonnes. longer be selling single-use more to come – we are working Also, we now segregate our plastic straws from October hard to reduce another 1,500 PET label backing paper from 2018, which will remove up tonnes of plastic on more than 80 general waste for recycling. This to 11.6 million straws from fruit and vegetable products and material is transformed into the waste stream annually. in the coming months customers PET granules which are in turn Also from October, all of will notice less plastic on beans recycled into new products. Countdown’s own brand and Solanato Tomatoes. We estimate that we’ll save bakery packaging will 42 tonnes of PET plastic from transition to recycled PET. general waste every year. 30 Sourcing environmentally IMPACT: sustainable commodities Commitment 11 Commitment 12 We are looking to source high impact commodities from Sustainable sustainable supply chains and continue to raise awareness Development Goal of this to our customers and our suppliers. Sustainable Development Goal One of Austral Fisheries fishing boats, a Woolworths Supermarket supplier. Sustainably sourced to help businesses understand the environmental risks associated with the own brand seafood they buy and sell. Woolworths commodities: was an early supporter of this tool and we plan to reference it going forward Committed to to inform and independently verify our sourcing decisions. a sustainable Raising the awareness of CHOCOLATE supply chain sustainably sourced products is an ongoing priority and in FY18 100% Woolworths Group is committed we supported this goal by: to the development and support • Hosting a ‘lunch and learn’ event for of supply chains that reduce our team members with Fair Trade our impact on the planet. Our Australia and New Zealand customers expect us to operate in TEA 100% • Attending the Marine Stewardship a sustainable manner by sourcing Council’s Sustainable Seafood high-risk commodities from Week luncheon independently certified sources and we have made strong progress • Participating in the annual towards this goal in FY18. ‘Fairtrade Fortnight’ campaign • Hosting a two-day event for We were successful in the launch World Environment Day which COFFEE of an own brand tea range that is certified by Rainforest Alliance. We also celebrated Christmas and highlighted progress made on sustainable supply chain 70% Easter with seasonal chocolate initiatives for a diverse internal ranges certified by UTZ/ and external audience Rainforest Alliance and will do the • Utilising our sustainable supply same in FY19 and beyond. We are chain discovery webpage to on track for all chocolate blocks, highlight our sustainably sourced SUGAR sugar and coffee to be from sustainable sources by 2020. Easter chocolate range • Road-testing guidance developed 82% In FY17, the Fisheries Research by the UN International Trade and Development Corporation Centre for making effective released WhichFish, an online tool environmental claims. 31 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Better bags Sustainable beef Sustainable Woolworths have been We are also committed to packaging working closely with Good ending deforestation caused Woolworths Supermarkets Environmental Choice by beef production. We know Australia (GECA) on the have committed to sourcing this is not possible through development of our reusable our high volume fibrethe sole reliance on legislation plastic bags made from 80% recycled content. GECA, and that we must collaborate in order to achieve net zero based packaging SKUs from independently certified 1 who run Australia’s only sustainable supply chains PERFORMANCE deforestation on beef. Since not-for-profit, multi‑sector or from recycled material 2016 we have been part of eco-labelling program and by 2020. This covers the HIGHLIGHTS the consultation to form the advisory service, have certified customer packaging that is Australian Sustainability some of our bags to their new supplied with some of our Beef Framework, of which 2 environmental performance most popular own brand we have been a signatory standard for reusable plastic products. We have already since 2017. We are part of the bags (RPBv1.0-2018), with the met this commitment for egg PEOPLE remainder of our bags certified consultative committee aimed cartons and long-life dairy by Blue Blue Angel, a fellow at investigating the ‘balance of milk cartons. Global Ecolabelling Network tree and grass cover’ alongside member. Woolworths’ other retailers, farming bodies reusable bags are the first and NGO’s such as WWF. to be certified to GECA’s standard, which seeks Woolworths has been invited to participate in a consultative 3 PLANET to set the benchmark for committee which is the scoping environmentally preferable phase to understand what products in this category. deforestation means in an Australian context. PALM OIL IN 4 NON-FOOD PROSPERITY PULP, PAPER AND TIMBER We are on track to meeting our 2020 target of sourcing all products containing paper, pulp and timber from independently certified 5 SUSTAINABILITY sustainable supply chains or from post-consumer recycled material. We have made progress across all of our own brand categories, with the Woolworths is working towards METRICS following products now meeting the certification requirements of the identifying all of the known Forest Stewardship Council (FSC): chemical derivatives of palm and • All cards, wrapping paper, gift bags and tags for Christmas 2018 palm kernel oil in our non-food • Our entire stationery range in time for Back to School in January 2019 formulations, such as dishwashing • Over 90% of our paper-based picnicware liquids and laundry concentrates, • All of our own brand toilet paper, tissues and paper towel. so that we can ensure they have been either sustainably To provide further assurance that our products are not contributing to sourced or their usage offset. deforestation, we have set the bar higher than certification. In 2018 we have Woolworths are working with introduced comprehensive procedures and guidance for sourcing all timber, our suppliers to develop products pulp and paper products, including a supplier questionnaire, to identify and with RSPO or Forest Trust verified assess the risk of the entire raw material supply chain for each article. This sustainable palm derivatives. will be complemented by an independent auditing regime in 2019. 32 Animal welfare Animal welfare principles: Five Freedoms Animal welfare is an important part of doing the right thing and ensuring we can provide quality products to our 1 Freedom from hunger and thirst customers. This year we have worked closely with our suppliers to improve the welfare of the animals under our care. 2 Freedom from discomfort Leading Australian retailer in animal welfare 3 Freedom from This year’s global Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare pain, injury (BBFAW) results have recognised Woolworths’ progress in or disease implementing farm animal welfare improvements. We have improved our ranking, moving up one tier to Tier 3 (of six, with Tier 1 representing leading performance) and making us the leading retailer in Australia on animal welfare. We have also made pleasing 4 progress on our overall commitments to improving animal welfare Freedom to and embedding good governance and performance reporting, express normal such as: behaviour • First retailer to launch an industry standard ‘Pork Blueprint’ and our world class PigSafe pens • Improved Dairy Standards 5 • Conversion of all of our Woolworths own brand eggs to cage-free Freedom from (see below right). fear and distress Cage-free Blantyre Farm, a Woolworths Supermarkets supplier. eggs During the year, our farmers have successfully converted all Woolworths own brand eggs to be cage-free. This meant that 160 cage‑egg sheds were converted, so the layer hens RSPCA Approved chicken are now free from close We have proudly offered RSPCA Approved chickens since confinement. We have also 2014. This applies to not just fresh chicken, but 70% of own brand products made a commitment to use that identify chicken as an ingredient have also been RSPCA Approved. only cage-free eggs as an ‘RSPCA Approved’ means that our supply of fresh chickens come from farms ingredient in our own brand which are assessed by the RSPCA. We have also committed to having all of products by 2025. our imported chicken raised to RSPCA Approved equivalent standards. 33 WOOLWORTHS GROUP “We are not just jumping on the bandwagon. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 We started as a free range egg farm nearly 30 years ago and we’ve always believed in the idea of free range chickens.” 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 MATUSZNY FAMILY, MANNING VALLEY, NSW SUSTAINABILITY METRICS The Matuszny Family has been involved in various farming enterprises for three generations since 1966 in the pristine, pollutant-free Manning Valley, NSW. Their first venture into free range eggs began in 1989, when Manning Valley Free Range Eggs was founded, and the operation has been expanded over the past 30 years. Manning Valley Free Range Eggs is committed to protecting the environment and conserving natural resources through efficient use. Their system ensures a happy, healthy, free ranging bird that consistently produces a complete, quality, nutritionally-packaged egg. They have been supplying Woolworths across the eastern states of Australia since 2008 and we have worked together to bring the best quality, unique produce to the growing free range market to meet customer demand. Matuszny’s family farm in Manning Valley. 34 Responding IMPACT: to climate change Commitment Sustainable 13 Development Goal We recognise and understand the effects climate change may have on our customers, operations, the economy and the communities in which we operate. 2018 carbon Our position on Climate change emissions 13% climate change governance We accept the Intergovernmental Woolworths Group considers climate Panel on Climate Change’s change to be a critical, board‑level assessment of climate change strategic issue. The Board science and have identified Sustainability Committee oversees below 2015 levels climate change as a material our Group-level response to climate sustainability issue relevant change risks and opportunities. to our businesses (see materiality Climate change forms part of our assessment, pages 8 and 9). We understand the responsibility sustainability strategy, progress Science-based targets on which is reported to the Board we carry in mitigating this climate Sustainability Committee In our 2020 sustainability strategy, change and we are supportive on a quarterly basis. Woolworths committed to use of Australia’s commitments under science-based targets (SBT) to the Paris Agreement to limit global Management has primary assess the impacts of a 2˚C world warming to 1.5°C-2°C above responsibility for assessing and and examine their applicability to the pre‑industrial levels. managing climate‑related risks Group. Science-based targets are and opportunities as part of our emissions reduction targets which are enterprise risk management in line with the level of decarbonisation Task Force on process. The Woolworths Facilities required to keep global temperature Climate-related Management team is responsible for increase below 2˚C compared to the energy efficiency and greenhouse pre‑industrial levels. Financial Disclosures gas emissions of our own operations, We have now undertaken modelling to Woolworths Group supports the and manage our board-endorsed determine our science-based targets for recommendations of the Task energy strategy targeting supply, our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, and Force on Climate-related Financial demand and innovation opportunities will continue this work to examine our Disclosures (TCFD) which has to reduce our carbon emissions. scope 3 emissions during the coming developed voluntary, consistent financial year. Our SBT modelling used climate‑related financial disclosures for companies, Climate change the Sectoral Decarbonisation Approach, which is the most comprehensive and and is committed to providing strategy fully developed SBT method available stakeholders with information and allocates the carbon budget in relation to how we are Climate change is part of our by sector (e.g. buildings, transport, managing climate change risks. broader sustainability strategy industry and power generation etc.); We recognise we are on a journey which is described on page 4 and 5 as well as the Absolute Contraction to enhance our management and of this report. We are focused Method which was used for our disclosure of this critical issue and on improving the emissions transport emissions. We will publish will work to progressively improve intensity of our operations, which our SBT in the next financial year after our disclosures against the TCFD reduces our business costs, examining our scope 3 emissions recommendations, aiming to as well as contributing to climate and obtaining endorsement of be completely aligned by 2020. change mitigation. the target from the SBT Initiative. 35 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Risk assessment Our business responds to climate TANK TEMPERATURE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 change by: • Monitoring, managing and CONTROL UPGRADE reducing, where possible, the greenhouse gas emissions of our operations The implementation of IGNITION (Integrated Software Platform for SCADA systems) at Vinpac International and • Working to understand and Dorrien Estate Winery has enabled our business to increase address the specific risks efficiencies at both sites. created by climate change for our business. Our annual The Vinpac Engineering Team worked with mechanical risk review process has engineering students from the University of Adelaide to develop a thermodynamic model to reduce the energy identified climate change as an emerging risk (see 2018 1 used for winery refrigeration. PERFORMANCE Annual Report). This system is currently being developed for the implementation We understand the risks that HIGHLIGHTS of automated night cooling for the tank farm. This will utilise the climate change poses to our refrigeration system at its most effective time for both power business. For example, the more consumption and cost of power. This system can be modified to enable day cooling when the sites have installed solar power to ensure the efficiency of the solar system. frequent incidence of extreme weather events has the potential 2 to impact our business and supply chain. This could result in potential PEOPLE infrastructure damage, as well as impact accessibility of our stores, affecting our ability to deliver safe, 3 quality products to our customers. Over the coming years, we aim to further enhance and embed the consideration of non‑financial PLANET risks into our enterprise risk management framework to ensure these risks continue to be identified 4 and evaluated in a consistent manner across our business. PROSPERITY Powering our future Woolworths have commited to reduce carbon emissions to 10% below 2015 levels by 2020. We are significantly ahead, with a 13% 5 reduction reported this year. We are investing in a range of SUSTAINABILITY METRICS initiatives that are optimising our energy use across our fleet of stores, distribution centres and support offices, reducing our energy consumption and testing emerging technologies. These initiatives are well developed with many already yielding significant benefits: • Switching off lights outside trading hours. During FY18 we have recommissioned 430 stores to ensure all lighting controls are operational and Michael Shelley, Group Energy Manager with our Tesla battery. schedules align with our trading hours. 36 • Changing the way heating, (available on the CDP website) ventilation and air-conditioning which was scored a “B” in 2017. equipment is controlled in our stores. With over one Understanding Our emissions footprint quarter of our stores already water risk complete, this strategic change We emit greenhouse gases both will yield significant energy directly and indirectly. We understand that Australia efficiency improvements, is a highly water-stressed without compromising store This year, we emitted a total of country. Many companies conditions and will be complete 3.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in all stores by FY20. are exposed to water risks equivalent (CO₂e), which is 13% that can negatively affect • Retrofitting our stores with lower than our 2015 baseline levels. business viability over energy efficient LED, which In FY18, our facilities emitted the shortor long-term, reduces a store’s energy 654,032 CO₂e of direct (scope and agricultural supply consumption by around 1 emission) which mainly comes security is an issue of high 10-15%. 1,000+ stores have from our use of refrigeration gases importance to investors been completed across the and natural gases at our stores. wanting to understand the Woolworths Group, including Electricity accounts for the majority impact issues such as water more than 500 supermarkets. of our emissions footprint, and this shortages and droughts could Upgrades to lighting in year we have emitted over 2.2 million have on investee company supermarkets alone have tonnes of CO₂e. Our scope 3 profitability, including offset the equivalent power emissions include the indirect through higher prices or consumption of 50 stores. emissions that occur as a result reduced availability of supply • Introduction of Energy of our waste disposals. chain agricultural inputs. Management Centre to monitor and manage energy consumption For companies such as across all supermarket stores. Woolworths that rely on This will provide real-time agricultural production, it visibility of our energy usage and is the water risks embedded allow us to optimise our energy in the supply chain that consumption through data and are of significant concern analytics. Over 400 stores are and during FY18, we have currently connected. undertaken some scoping • Installing solar panels on roofs research work to enable offsets around 13% of a store’s us to better understand energy consumption. We have these risks. solar panels on 62 stores and We have assessed the water two distribution centres across risk associated with 13 of the Woolworths Group with a Woolworths’ key product solar capacity of approximately groups (e.g. beef, tomatoes, 7MW. There is another 2MW currently under construction LED pork) along three dimensions: physical risk to water across 6 stores. With our energy lighting quantity, physical risk to partner TransGrid, we are also water quality, and regulatory trialling a solar and TESLA BIG W has installed LED and reputation risk. These battery system at our Erskine lighting across 42 stores product groups represent Park Liquor Distribution Centre. between the period of $8.7 billion annual revenue September 2017 to May for Woolworths Group. 2018, equating to 28,675 LED Carbon light fittings replaced. This Over FY19, we will use this represents an energy saving initial analysis to help us Disclosure Project of 15–20%. formulate an action plan to The Carbon Disclosure help address/mitigate these The introduction of the road to Project (CDP) runs the global risks by building capacity and rail initiative on 31 July 2017 disclosure system that enables resilience in our supply chain. has removed 6,000 truck companies to measure and movements from the road, benchmark their environmental further reinforcing our efforts impacts. Woolworths responds to contribute to the reduction of to CDP’s ‘Investor Request’ on Woolworths’ carbon emissions. climate change through our annual voluntary submission 37 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Refrigeration IMPACT: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Management Commitment Sustainable 14 Development Goal 1 2018 PERFORMANCE refrigerant leakage HIGHLIGHTS 4% 2 PEOPLE above 2015 levels 3 Carbon Intensity PLANET (t CO2-e/square meters) 0.76 0.74 0.76 4 0.70 0.69 PROSPERITY Refrigeration plays a major part in Oasis Supermarket has one of the our business, and operation of our largest waterloop systems in the refrigeration systems is a material southern hemisphere. Waterloop contributor to our carbon refrigeration offers a reduction in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 footprint. In line with our target to ‘innovate with natural refrigerants refrigerant charge and refrigerant leak rates compared to standard systems. 5 SUSTAINABILITY and reduce refrigerant leakage In FY18, there have been 341 stores in our stores by 15% of CO2-e with upgraded refrigeration systems. METRICS below 2015 levels’, we have been investigating and implementing We have also piloted our Refrigerant technology to help us reduce Leak Detection System in 74 stores. Energy Intensity the use of refrigerants with high This is a monitoring system which (GJ/square meters) Global Warming Potentials. Over samples air through an infrared the past few years, we have been sensor from multiple zones around 2.9 2.9 2.8 upgrading our store refrigeration the store, and triggers an alarm if 2.7 2.7 systems with hybrid (R134a and the refrigerant level exceeds a set CO2) or HFC‑free systems. threshold. Early detection of a leak We have also been installing will result in improved staff safety due waterloop refrigeration in to reduced risk of oxygen depletion applicable stores, including the in confined spaces, reduce stock newly opened Caulfield North loss and subsequent food waste and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Metro, North Sydney Metro and reduce the carbon emissions related The Oasis Supermarket. The to the refrigeration loss. 38 Prosperity Founded on trusted relationships We continue to find ways to work better together with our partners – including our suppliers, customers and communities. The power of these strong relationships builds trust and enables us to maximise our positive impact. Own brand Woolworths products Supermarkets own undergone brand products with a nutritional renovation the Health Star Rating 280+ 2,200+ Our community Cash contribution donations as a % of EBIT 1 1.24% $5M 1 on a rolling average basis. 39 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 “We have grown our business together PERFORMANCE with Woolworths and continue to evolve HIGHLIGHTS with them to ensure our supply chain 2 is efficient and responsible.” PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Quote: Rebecca Scurr, Pinata Farm, Queensland. 40 Working with our IMPACT: business partners Commitment Sustainable 15 Development Goal We understand that working with our suppliers means building long-term partnerships, encouraging open communication and fostering trust. “We can see a huge improvement in the way Woolworths deals with suppliers. They are now Understanding our talking to us about long term strategic direction….” suppliers VOICE OF SUPPLIER In order to continually build on our relationships with our suppliers, we work with the Advantage Group to allow our suppliers to talk openly and anonymously about our performance and engagement with them. Once a year they prepare a detailed report by interviewing our suppliers, along with a pulse survey which is performed more often to provide us regular feedback and help us address concerns. We know there is still more work that can be done, and we will be working with our partners to continue to improve. In the 2018 Advantage Report, Woolworths Supermarkets ranked second (out of 18 retailers) in ‘dealing with suppliers in a Working with fair and equitable manner’. To achieve these results, our senior our suppliers management team consistently communicates collaborative buying strategies and fair-trading values at industry events, BIG W has committed to through our web-based electronic portal, and at business updates hold a supplier conference we host for 1,000 of ours suppliers twice a year. every six months and have now hosted three successful Several hundred members of our buying team have undertaken events, with 450 suppliers an external personal development and relationship-management attending the Australian course called Evolve. The Evolve training and principles ensure session in May 2018, and buying teams at all levels live the fair and ethical message being 200 attending in Hong Kong. delivered by management in their day-to-day dealings with suppliers. In achieving this result, Woolworths Supermarkets has We also commenced our achieved their 2020 commitment, ‘we will achieve a top quartile Voice of Supplier (VOS) ranking in how we engage fairly and equitably with our suppliers as surveys in July 2017. After measured by independent supplier surveys’, ahead of time. each bi-annual survey, a plan is developed to act Our BWS business moved to second position in national on opportunities that have VOS rankings with a net favourable score of 64, a nine-point been identified. Improving improvement on the prior period. They ranked number 1 for our VOS scores is a key Category and Business Development in all major categories performance measure for the (Beer, Wine, Spirits and Ready-to-Drink). commercial team. 41 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 “My father began introducing sustainability 1 and recycling PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS innovation in his day and we expect 2 Alice to think PEOPLE outside the box when she takes over from us.” 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY Edwina Beveridge with her family, Blantyre Farms. 5 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER OF THE YEAR METRICS Woolworths Supermarkets’ annual Supplier of the Year awards recognise best-in-class performance amongst our suppliers in many different categories. This year, we again recognised our Sustainable Supplier of the Year; an award which encourages suppliers to innovate and implement sustainability practices into their business. Our 2017 winner was pig producer Blantyre Farm, who displayed a real commitment to reducing food waste and making sustainability a fundamental part of their culture. Blantyre Farm has diverted 6,000 tonnes of waste food products from landfill to provide feedstock to 70% of their farm pigs. The waste stream includes Woolworths dairy products, confectionery, spreads, pet food and seafood products. These products might be simply short coded, have incorrect packaging or may not have passed human‑grade specification. They have also invested in an unpacking facility, to unpack by hand 1,000 cartons of milk and 8 million litres of juice normally headed for landfill. Finally, they ensure that all of the plastic, cardboard or tin product containers are recycled. 42 Working with our IMPACT: business partners Commitment Sustainable 16 Development Goal At Woolworths Group, one of our core values is: I care deeply. This is at the heart of our sustainability programs, and Sustainable is particularly relevant in our approach to responsible Development Goal sourcing and how we manage the rights of workers across our global supply chain. Our commitment to human rights For the past year, Woolworths Group has undertaken a group‑wide review of our approach to ethical sourcing. Led by a cross-functional team with the directive of the board, Rebecca Scurr, Pinata Farm, Queensland with her team. we worked in partnership with recognised social compliance firm ELEVATE to review and redesign our approach. This work • Responsible Sourcing Policy that While our operations and supply was based on the logic of risk applies to all direct suppliers; and chains are complex, our aim is to assessment, segmentation, due • Responsible Sourcing Standards ensure that human rights issues diligence and mutual recognition that apply to all direct suppliers, are understood, respected and (see page 64). As part of this other than suppliers of branded upheld. Woolworths Group expects process we benchmarked our goods and services. our supplier business partners to approach against leading global adhere to ethical business conduct retailers, drew on investor and The Responsible Sourcing Policy consistent with our own, and are consumer insights, considered outlines our commitment to committed to working with them existing and forthcoming upholding the human rights to fulfil this common goal. We legislation on transparency of the workers in our supply will support suppliers through in supply chains, developed chain. It replaces our Ethical this process by offering a series partnerships with leading thirdSourcing Policy and is a part of information sessions, guidance party social compliance schemes of doing business with us. documents, training and capacity and piloted our approach with The Standards are a key way development opportunities. suppliers. that we implement the Policy The result of this review commitments. They include You can read more about our new has led to the launch of our comprehensive criteria on Responsible Sourcing Program and new Responsible Sourcing business integrity, labour rights, download the Policy and Standards Program, anchored by two fair and safe working conditions from the “Our Partners” section main documents: and environmental compliance. of the Group’s website 1 1 More details on our Responsible Sourcing Policy can be found at: https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/community-and-responsibility/groupresponsibility/partners/Labour_Practices_in_our_global_supply_chain/ 43 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 How we did in Grievance and Minimising FY18 remedy duplication Prior to the launch of our Woolworths Group provides Recognising many of our updated Responsible Sourcing a Speak Up service for our suppliers are already part Program in July 2018, we team members and direct of a social compliance audit have had a social compliance suppliers (and their team program, we will now accept audit program in place since 2009 for factories making members) as a mechanism by which responsible compliance information from six different internationally 1 sourcing concerns can be recognised third-party PERFORMANCE our own brand products. We engaged third-party raised anonymously. Yet, schemes. By accepting these with suppliers in more schemes, suppliers can avoid HIGHLIGHTS certification bodies to than 66 countries, we duplication and harmonise conduct Woolworths Ethical acknowledge there are their social compliance Audits and to rate factories 2 different socio-cultural requirements for different as approved, conditionally barriers that may prevent retail customers. These approved or at risk. Factories vulnerable workers from schemes were selected based PEOPLE at risk or that need critical raising concerns, either on their coverage, governance, corrective actions cannot directly with their employer relevance to our at‑risk supply start production until these (our supplier) or with us. chain and alignment to our issues are resolved. Standards, including: Strengthening our grievance During the 2017-2018 • amfori BSCI 3 response and working financial year, we conducted with suppliers to ensure • Supplier Ethical Data 130 Woolworths Ethical appropriate mechanisms Exchange (Sedex) and PLANET Audits (see figures on are made available within the SMETA audit page 64 of this report). Of their own supply chains • Social Accountability these, we found 45 critical is a priority for the Group International (SA 8000) issues, 767 major issues in FY19. The Responsible • International Councils and 198 minor issues. The Sourcing standards reaffirm 4 of Toy Industries (ICTI) majority of these audits were the eight characteristics of an Ethical Toy Program conducted in China and key effective grievance process • Worldwide Responsible PROSPERITY improvement areas relate outlined by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Accredited Production to working hours, access to Business and Human Rights (WRAP) social insurance and wages and benefits. (known as the UNGPs), and • GLOBALG.A.P. Risk we will work with suppliers to Assessment on Social raise awareness of these. Practice (GRASP). 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS MULTI-STAKEHOLDER COLLABORATION Human rights and responsible sourcing challenges do not occur in isolation. At Woolworths Group, we seek to work in multi-stakeholder partnerships that both scale impact and promote a coordinated approach to tackling complex issues. Examples of collaboration on business and human rights include: • Woolworths Group’s Retail Roundtable series held in Australia and Asia • Signing the 2018 Transition Accord in Bangladesh • Participating in meetings of the Bali Process Government and Business Forum • Members of the Global Compact Network Australia’s Modern Slavery Community of Practice • Ongoing dialogue with civil society in Australia and key sourcing countries • Participating in the Australian Government’s consultation on establishing a Modern Slavery Act. 44 Making an impact IMPACT: Commitment 17 Our values are reflected in the work that we do for the communities that we are a part of. Woolworths Group Sustainable Development Goal is committed to contributing the equivalent of at least 1% of our pre-tax profits on a three-year rolling average every year to community causes. We donate cash, in‑kind or team member time to various charities across Australia and New Zealand. We also provide channels Our community contribution as % of EBIT for our team members and customers to provide their on a rolling average basis support to these worthy causes. 1.24% DIRECT COMMUNITY NATIONAL: QLD: INVESTMENTS 1 Woolworths Earn Royal Flying Doctors & Learn The Royal Flying Doctor Cash The Woolworths Earn & Service celebrated its 90th donations Learn program helps schools anniversary in FY18, and $5.0M and early learning centres Woolworths stores across obtain a variety of educational Queensland joined the resources, including sporting, celebration by fundraising mathematics, arts and more than $720,000. In kind science equipment. This The Flying Doctor delivers program, has delivered $15.8M care to more than 95,000 over $50 million in school people no matter where they equipment since it started live, work or travel, providing in 2011. This year, we vital access to air ambulance delivered 300,000 pieces Team of educational equipment to services and rural GP services. member time over 15,000 schools and Early $10M Learning Centres, assisting over three million pupils. Direct community SA: Investment totalling Dolly’s Dream $30.8M WA: Princess Margaret In June BWS selected “Dolly’s Dream” as the charity to support Hospital and hope to raise over $25,000. Dolly’s Dream Leveraged Our teams in WA continue Foundation is actively fundraising their longstanding support working to prevent $18.0M of the Princess Margaret bullying and support Hospital through the victims of bullying. Telethon Kids Institute. 1 London Benchmarking Group methodology. 45 NT: NATIONAL: QLD: WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Mission Australia White Ribbon Children’s Hospital Foundation BWS has partnered with EDG is committed to ending Mission Australia in Darwin to men’s violence against The Children’s Hospital support the Cafe One project women and have been Foundation, in association – a training program for at-risk proud partners with White with Woolworths, announced youth. This project will assist Ribbon Australia since 2013. the establishment of the 40 youths in their journey for Throughout the year, we new Woolworths Centre employment as a pathway to donate directly and also for Childhood Nutrition sustainable independence. host a range of fundraising Research, a $5 million activities for our team 1 research centre aimed at members and community. better understanding key In FY18, we have donated issues in childhood nutrition PERFORMANCE over $400,000, which has and how to tackle them. helped provide education, HIGHLIGHTS awareness-raising campaigns NZ: and preventative programs. Contestable Fund In addition to the food 2 PEOPLE donated through our stores, in FY18 we donated NSW/ACT: $150,000 to our Food Variety – the Rescue Partners Contestable TAS: Children’s Charity Fund, a $30,000 increase from FY17. This fund was established as there was little Kids I Am Each year, thousands of children who are sick, 3 Woolworths participated PLANET financial assistance available disadvantaged or have to help the sector grow in the “Kids I Am” event special needs get support and thrive. Countdown has in Launceston, providing from Variety when they need awarded money to eight food opportunities for kids to try it most. Last year, with the rescue partners to help with a range of physically and help of Woolworths, Variety various upgrades, facilities, a delivery vehicle and mentally stimulating activities. impacted the lives of more than 60,000 kids in NSW, 4 towards operating costs. PROSPERITY ACT, SA and NT. NATIONAL: GOOD360 5 SUSTAINABILITY BIG W has a partnership with VIC: Good360, a not‑for‑profit Very Special Kids METRICS connecting goods to VIC: charities, and has donated Throughout the year, ALH more than 400,000 Group Victorian venues have Good Friday Appeal brand‑new unsold or raised funds for Very Special Woolworths team members overstocked goods,like Kids (VSK) with raffles and in Victoria continued their winter clothes, which would special events. In June, ALH support of the Good Friday otherwise be disposed of to Group venues across Victoria Appeal Kids Day Out. Through landfill. These goods have took part in the annual this family celebration in then been distributed through 24‑hour Very Special Kids Melbourne on Good Friday, Good360’s network of 500 Treadmill Challenge to raise our teams offered fun charitable organisations who over $180K for children with activities to inspire children re-distribute the goods to life‑threatening conditions. with fresh, healthy food. Australians in need. 46 Giving back to the IMPACT: communities in Commitment 18 which we operate Sustainable Development Goal Through our S.T.A.N.D partnership with The Salvation Army, Woolworths Group is able to support communities in need during natural disasters. communities ravaged by events from flash flooding to bushfires, often simultaneously across the country. Thanks to a $500,000 annual Support through donation, proceeds from S.T.A.N.D bottled water and customer natural disasters donations, the Salvo’s Emergency Services teams were able to reach RED SHIELD The Woolworths and Salvation Army S.T.A.N.D partnership out to those in crisis – including those impacted by the floods in Hobart, APPEAL provided Support Through fires in Murray Bridge (SA) and on Australian Natural Disasters the NSW South Coast, as well and numerous times in the last mopping up after the impact of year, as again we saw many Cyclone Marcus in Darwin. In May each year, Woolworths Supermarket stores open their doors across the country to The Salvation Army to support the Red Shield Appeal; the Salvos’ biggest appeal that raises much needed funds. Working together with the Salvos on their fundraiser is another way we are giving back to the community. The Salvation Army support vehicles. 47 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 Hamish and Lisa Payne with the team from The Salvation Army. PLANET THE PAYNES 4 Hamish and Lisa Payne, Woolworths Supermarkets team members, experienced the Tathra fires first hand. PROSPERITY From her home, Lisa could see the fire streets away. Meanwhile, Hamish was returning from a conference in Sydney and flew over the flames near his house. When they could see the helicopters water-bombing a few streets away, they 5 knew things weren’t “real crash hot”. Within minutes an Emergency Services vehicle approached and alerted people to evacuate their homes. They grabbed their wedding photos, their dog and went out to check on their neighbours. SUSTAINABILITY Hamish and Lisa eventually arrived at the Bega showground evacuation centre, along with 837 other evacuees. In total, 65 homes were destroyed and 39 were damaged. METRICS At the evacuation centre, Hamish met Salvation Army Emergency Services coordinators Captains Rod and Debra Parsons, who were offering food, drink as well as pastoral and emotional care to the evacuees. Immediately Hamish arranged for water, ice and food to be delivered from the nearest operating Woolworths. “It was just the right thing to do” said Hamish. Woolworths and the Salvos worked in harmony to offer sustenance and support to those affected by the devastating fires. ”We found our house was damaged, though we were lucky, luckier than some” lamented Hamish. Salvo Rod said “The Paynes were instrumental in our response. Whenever I needed anything they were on the phone to the Woolworths team making it happen.” To date, the Salvos have distributed more than $86,000 in financial assistance to Tathra residents affected by the fires; a response supported by the Woolworths Salvation Army S.T.A.N.D program. The Salvos continue to offer material aid, emergency financial aid, financial counselling, ongoing casework and chaplaincy support to the local community. 48 Giving back to the IMPACT: communities in Commitment 18 which we operate Sustainable Development Goal We are proud to have supported Foodbank for over 15 years, who provide food relief to vulnerable Australians every day. Fighting hunger in Australia EMILY DAWSON The 2017 Foodbank Hunger Report found that in the last 12 months, 3.6 million Australians, or 15% of the population, have experienced uncertainty about where their next meal is coming from. Woolworths’ ongoing commitment to Foodbank is one way to ensure food waste is reduced right across the supply chain while also ensuring that vulnerable Australians do not go without food and groceries when forced to make tough choices about where to spend their money. Woolworths has supported Foodbank Australia since 2000, donating the equivalent of 29 million meals to Australians in need in this time. Foodbank provides food relief to more than 650,000 people each month across a range of demographics, from young families, to rural and remote communities and the elderly. With 3.6 million Australians Food Donor Coordinator experiencing food insecurity at some point each year, Woolworths’ at Foodbank Victoria partnership with Foodbank is helping to make a difference to the lives of food insecure families across Australia. “Working with the team at the “We simply could not do what we do without the support of Woolworths. Mulgrave Distribution Centre It is a joy to be able to work with teams who are equally passionate about has been so rewarding. They helping to turn around the lives of vulnerable Australians. The simple act welcome us with open arms and of providing food and groceries at a time when people are at their most because they are all passionate vulnerable can have life-changing consequences for the better, and we are about reducing waste, they so heartened by the good acts undertaken by Woolworths teams each and really are working tirelessly to every day as they work to support Foodbank” Brianna Casey, Foodbank ensure that stock that may once Australia Chief Executive Officer. have gone to landfill can now go to helping people in need. Having the support of a passionate group of people, who are immensely proud of the work we are doing together, is invaluable. Together we’re able to have an enormous impact on the lives of thousands of families doing it tough – and we’re helping the environment by reducing landfill too.” 49 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Woolworths Group Supply Chain teams across the country have METRICS firmly established themselves as Foodbank champions, working hard to maximise the volumes of food and groceries being directed to Foodbank rather than being sent to landfill. Every Woolworths Distribution Centre now has a demarcated area for Foodbank donations. Whether it be rejected stock, products with incorrect barcodes or packaging faults, thanks to a process change implemented by the Woolworths Supply Chain team this year, surplus product is now diverted to Foodbank faster, to help people in need. Woolworths Group Supply Chain team supporting Foodbank. 50 Creating shared IMPACT: value with our Commitment 19 customers We constantly listen and learn from our customers so we can tailor our stores to the community it is part South Melbourne of, such as sourcing products from local suppliers. Dim Sims, Victoria South Melbourne Dim Sims is an iconic Melbourne brand that started back in 1949 when the Cheng Family opened up their take-away shop at the South Melbourne Markets. Now their shop has become a landmark Sourcing locally with loyal Melbournians and tourists queuing up daily Our customers tell us that local sourcing is important to them, and our team of state-based local sourcing managers are focussed on searching for the famous dim sims. for products that are grown or produced locally in their home state. South Melbourne Dim Sims launched in Woolworths South Melbourne as a ready‑to-eat offer in a retail pack of six in the freezer section. This relationship has Jim’s Jerky, Queensland come to fruition as a result of the Woolworths ‘Discover Jim’s Jerky was created by Jim and Cathie Tanner in Local’ Campaign and has 2004 outside Toowoomba. After supplying cattle to introduced South Melbourne Woolworths, Jim loved the idea of a value‑added beef product. Dim Sims as a local supplier. Jim’s Jerky is now a household name in Queensland and further afield. Jim’s Jerky was first ranged into Woolworths stores in the Toowoomba region in September 2017, and is now available in more than 80 stores Queensland-wide. Australian Sourced Fresh Products 1 (%) 100 96 88 70 1 2 3 4 1 Meat 100% 2 Fruit and vegetables 96% 3 Bakery 88% 4 Fish and seafood 70% 1 In Australian supermarkets. 51 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Woolworths Marrickville Metro: THE NEXT GENERATION OF SUPERMARKET We have been listening to our customers, and understand there is no “one size fits all” approach to product ranging across all our stores. Our customers live in different environments all over Australia and their shopping needs vary. As such, we are listening to our customers and team in each store to build a store tailored for each of the communities we operate in. With this in mind, we launched our new flagship store during FY18. 1 With an expanded fresh food offering, customers can pick their own living lettuce from a hydroponic setup, enjoy a flame-roasted chicken, select something for entertaining from the cheese cave or peruse the PERFORMANCE Macro wholefood market aisle with over 200 certified organic lines. A new ‘Ready to Go’ section at the front of the store, filled with ready meals, fresh sandwiches, salads and healthy juices also caters for HIGHLIGHTS time-poor customers looking for easy meal options. For those who choose to shop online and pick up their orders in-store, there are Pick Up lockers located conveniently at the customer service desk. Customers can also experience a full production bakery including freshly-made 2 PEOPLE artisan bread, a new and larger range of fruit and vegetables, in-store butchery and fish market. Support for local producers is also a focus, with products being ranged from local brands such as Hellenic Patisserie and Pepe Saya. The adjacent BWS has also been renewed, providing customers with a seamless journey between both stores and the ease of paying for their items from a dedicated register. 3 Woolworths Supermarkets Managing Director, Claire Peters said: “Woolworths Marrickville Metro marks the next evolution of our journey to PLANET create a neighbourhood food store that provides a great shopping experience for our customers, good prices on products they want, a great fresh offer and the convenience they are looking for. “Our teams have spent a great deal of time understanding how our customers like to shop, looked across the globe for inspiration and designed 4 PROSPERITY the store with the local customer at the forefront to create this next generation grocery shopping experience. Every possible angle and aisle in this process has been revisited and the result is a rustic yet future-proof design with a real community spirit.” 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Own Brand Grocery – Australian sourced 1 (%) Voice of Customer 91.7 81.5 81.8 83.6 82.1 74.8 70.8 We use our Voice of Customer (VOC) surveys to understand what our customers want, and it is a key performance indicator for our team. Our Australian food business continue its strong performance scoring 82 and New Zealand has scored 78. Dan Murphy’s and BWS have achieved 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 their highest VOC scores since tracking commenced. BIG W continues 1 Macro 91.7% to embed VOC metrics across the business as we work on building the 2 WOW Branded Own Label 81.5% 3 Select 81.8% foundations of this business. 4 Homebrand 74.8% 5 Essentials 83.6% 6 Gold 70.8% 7 Total 82.1% 52 Responsible IMPACT: service of alcohol Commitment Sustainable 20 Development Goal We are conscious of our obligations to address issues related to responsible drinking, and the responsible service, ranging, sale and marketing of alcohol. DrinkWise if there’s a chance alcohol could be purchased for a minor or if people are Endeavour Drinks is a voluntary already intoxicated. All of our team contributor to DrinkWise – an receive regular RSA training updates independent, not-for-profit from programs we have developed Our responsibilities organisation whose primary focus is ourselves, many of which have gone to help bring about a healthier and on to be adopted industry-wide. EDG has developed and safer drinking culture in Australia. implemented a suite of industry DrinkWise develops and implements leading responsible service a range of national information and Voluntary restrictions initiatives including RSA mystery education campaigns, as well as shops on 100% of stores over BWS decided to implement providing practical resources to help voluntary restrictions to support the course of the year. EDG is inform and support the community the industry leader in online RSA the Port Hedland community about alcohol use. when significant alcohol issues processes. The Victorian liquor regulatory body VCGLR has DrinkWise’s approach recognises the were identified in South Hedland. recommended that our processes benefits of moderation, individual These measures not only assisted be adopted as best practice for the responsibility and awareness of the community but also our sale and delivery of alcohol online. harms. By creating campaigns which team members by minimising resonate with Australians, DrinkWise challenges they were dealing with We have developed the “Our on a day-to-day basis. BWS was has made a meaningful contribution Community our Commitment” described as the ‘gold standard’ to cultural change. The recent responsibility framework, by the WA Police Force, who DrinkWise Australian Drinking outlining our formal commitment Habits 2007 vs 2017 report indicates supported our actions to help to the communities that we that over the past decade, there have reduce harm in the community. serve. As legal obligations vary by jurisdiction our approach is been reductions in the proportion to take the most stringent legal of Australians drinking to excess, Responsible ranging standard and apply it as national increased levels of abstinence policy. In many instances we among pregnant women and minors, We pride ourselves on the go beyond legal requirements a rise in the age of initiation and quality and extent of our range with initiatives such as our improved approaches to parental but there are some drinks we School Uniform policy and our role modelling. don’t stock because we’ve Ethical Buying Checklist. We found they appeal to people work proactively with local police who shouldn’t be drinking and/ and regulatory bodies to develop Serving alcohol or encourage people to drink responsible service policies that responsibly too much. We never stock a are attuned to local issues and drink item if its advertising conditions. We are active in all local We are very strict when enforcing and packaging make a direct, liquor accords in every community the rules regarding alcohol. To keep unambiguous appeal to young in which we are represented. We young people safe, we have a policy people, or encourages excessive were the first retail business to make sure all patrons of our hotels consumption. A number of our in Australia to subscribe to the and liquor outlets, and customers suppliers have made changes Alcohol Beverages Advertising of our digital and direct businesses to packaging or reformulated Code and a founding member of are checked for ID if they appear drinks as a result of our Alcohol Beverages Australia. under 25. We are also very diligent ranging guidelines. 53 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Responsible gambling IMPACT: Commitment 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ALH recognises that problem gambling is a serious community issue and takes its obligations to promote responsible gaming Sustainable Development Goal very seriously. The ALH Group has already put in place immediate measures to further boost the commitment to responsible gaming, and to address the findings of two recent operational investigations. 1 PERFORMANCE in South Australia, and certain responsible gaming through training, HIGHLIGHTS aspects of the customer service communication and responsible program were implemented in two practices. ALH proposes to take venues in New South Wales. The a number of steps to enhance its investigation additionally found evidence that, at some venues in responsible gaming practices, including adopting several of RGCC’s 2 Responsible Queensland, there was increased recommendations. Specifically, ALH PEOPLE Gaming Practices provision of complimentary drinks will: introduce an updated National in gaming areas and that in certain Gaming Code of Conduct to ensure Investigation instances increased customer service a consistent approach to patron 3 In early 2018, Federal MP Andrew efforts (including the provision engagement across the business. Wilkie questioned responsible of complimentary drinks) were The implementation of the new code practices at ALH in the Federal directed to high-value customers to will follow the completion of a review Parliament. As a result an ALH encourage further gaming activity. of patron management practices at PLANET board sub-committee was These initiatives have now ceased. ALH venues. In addition, ALH has established to investigate the Aside from the matters referred to committed to: claims. The investigation subabove, the investigation did not find • enhanced training programs to help 4 committee consisted of the evidence of similar conduct in any gaming staff with customer care non-executive directors of ALH other state or territory. • implementing a uniform policy PROSPERITY and was chaired by Mr Roger Relevant state regulators and the across the organisation precluding Corbett, advised by MinterEllison Office of the Australian Information the service of complimentary and supported by Ernst and Commissioner have been briefed alcohol in gaming room Young and Jonathan Forbes on the findings of the investigation, • enhanced programs and customer of counsel. The investigation and ALH is actively engaging with 5 engagement to promote voluntary was conducted independently regulators regarding these matters. pre-commitment of ALH management. • enhancements to its privacy Responsible Gambling SUSTAINABILITY In summary, the investigation training and procedures found that over an approximately • disciplinary action where past METRICS six month period commencing in Council of Canada instances of poor management or around June 2017, a customer have been identified. The Responsible Gaming Council of service program was operating Canada (RGCC) has completed a in a limited number of venues These commitments are underpinned report, commissioned by ALH in 2017, in Queensland which gave rise by ALH’s Responsible Gaming Charter assessing ALH’s gaming operations to instances of ALH employees and its Australia-wide voluntary preagainst world best practice. The recording descriptive information commitment program. ALH has also investigation team undertook about gaming customers in a established a specific whistleblower extensive enquiries and conducted manner that was below ALH’s platform to seek to identify any interviews with team members across expectations and contrary to its related issues across the business. all jurisdictions in which ALH operates policies. Practices varied across These measures will ensure that ALH a gaming business. these hotels. The practice also continues to be the industry leader in extended (to a limited degree) RGCC’s report endorsed ALH’s the responsible service of alcohol and to a small number of venues culture and commitment to gaming products. 54 Making IMPACT: healthier easier Commitment Sustainable 20 Development Goal Our customers increasingly tell us that health is important to them, but for nearly one in two people, healthy eating is perceived to be expensive. We want to take the lead and support our customers by making healthier eating easier. The cost of healthy food, a lack of motivation to cook, difficult to change eating habits Health and a lack of time are the main barriers to healthy eating. 1 New Zealand We’ve updated our nutrition targets to align with the retail industry’s “Reducing Child Obesity” pledges. Other key health Inspiring for a better future initiatives included: • Participating in the Heart In FY18 we re-launched our Fresh Food Kids program, Foundation’s Heart SAFE with the ambition to make it fun and easy for kids reformulation program, to eat fruit and vegetables every day. Our aim is to empower and as a result removed kids through fun and hands-on activities. That’s why we have: over three tonnes of • Continued to offer Free Fruit for Kids available in all Woolworths salt from our potato Supermarkets across Australia. More than 6.8 million pieces chips annually of fruit are donated each year • Encouraging Kiwi families • Piloted Fresh Food Kids Discovery Tours in 54 stores, which to cook nutritious recipes are being extended to all Woolworths stores from July 2018. at home with recipe cards Children from primary school and early learning centres • Increasing the health food are invited to learn, touch and taste fruit and vegetables. space in 140 stores with As of June 2018, 1,304 students have taken a tour an≈overall space increase • Provided 500,000 free Back to School booklets in-store to guide of 230% since 2014 parents on how to pack a healthy lunch from all the five food groups • Working with the Minister • Held a Fresh Food Fair in 991 stores with free activities for of Health and an industry kids to try new fruit and vegetables. working group on tackling obesity in New Zealand. Fresh Food Kids Discovery Tour. 1 IPSOS May 2018, N=2000. 55 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SIGNPOSTING HEALTHIER OPTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 To help our customers find healthier choices in store we have: Reducing prices • Included the Health Star Rating on 98.5% of eligible Woolworths foods In February and May 2018 (over 2,200 products) we dropped the prices of • Displayed nutrition information on our supermarket website more than 90 healthier foods • Developed new store formats with a focus on fresh and healthy food by available at Woolworths. increasing space in 29 renewed stores for fresh fruit and vegetables and During these campaigns we more shelf space has been dedicated to health aisles in 54 stores educated our customers and teams with healthier eating tips • Increased our investment in driving awareness of fresh produce, including the expansion of our Fresh Market Update. and swaps in our catalogue, at point of sale and on the new 1 healthy eating web page on our supermarket website. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Stakeholder engagement Growing a “good food” team culture 2 PEOPLE Woolworths is part of the We now employ 5 accredited Government’s Healthy nutritionists across Deakin University’s Food Partnership Executive Australia and New Zealand Health Rating for 3 Committee, which aims to to implement our health improve the dietary habits guidelines and commitments. Supermarkets Report of Australians. We hosted To embed our health strategy This year Deakin assessed PLANET our first health day in in FY18 Australia established Australian supermarkets on Australia and New Zealand a cross functional health their health initiatives and with over 100 like-minded working group supported by ranked Woolworths as the partners from industry, our Executive Committee highest performer in the NGOs and government. 4 with representatives from group. The Report called on We shared our approach buying, marketing, strategy all Australian retailers to do to helping customers shop and nutrition. more to encourage healthy healthier and we established PROSPERITY partnerships with Life eating. Whilst we’ve made Education, Cricket Australia some progress, we acknowledge and Netball Australia. there is more we can do. 5 SUSTAINABILITY Improving the nutrition of Woolworths Food Range METRICS In the last six years we have improved the nutrition of 280+ products, resulting in: Recognition The Heart Foundation Victoria 405 tonnes less salt publicly recognised our salt reduction efforts across Woolworths Food Range claiming 130 tonnes less saturated fat Woolworths is leading the way for other food companies and 220 tonnes less sugar retailers in Australia. 13,300 tonnes more whole grains 56 Sustainability metrics TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS (t CO2 -e) 1 ALH BIG W BWS Corporate Dan Murphys FABCOT Logistics Masters Countdown Petrol Supermarkets Thomas Dux 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 2016 2017 2018 ELECTRICITY USE (MWh) 1 ALH BIG W BWS Corporate Dan Murphys FABCOT Logistics Masters Countdown Petrol Supermarkets Thomas Dux 0 500000 1000000 1500000 2000000 2016 2017 2018 1 Energy use and carbon emissions data was prepared in accordance with NGER Guidelines. 57 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EMISSIONS FROM FACILITIES (t CO2 -e) 1 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 TOTAL ALH 30,785 225,002 33,567 289,353 BIG W 7,105 132,295 24,074 163,474 BWS 4,438 20,474 3,160 28,072 Corporate 1,009 53,773 8,669 63,451 Dan Murphys FABCOT 5,862 210 47,041 4,752 6,446 727 59,349 5,689 1 PERFORMANCE Logistics 10,315 87,186 18,025 115,526 Masters – 4,548 550 5,098 Countdown 75,213 36,074 19,069 130,357 HIGHLIGHTS Petrol 3,327 42,152 7,976 53,455 2 Supermarkets 515,767 1,587,715 298,910 2,402,392 Grand Total 654,032 2,241,013 421,173 3,316,217 PEOPLE 1 Energy use and carbon emissions data was prepared in accordance with NGER Guidelines. TRANSPORT EMISSIONS BY USE (t CO2 -e) 1 END USE AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND 3 Business travel 4,974 2,274 Home delivery 9,667 – Logistics 3rd party road 95,729 31,452 Trolley collection 14,869 – PLANET 1 Energy use and carbon emissions data was prepared in accodance with NGER Guidelines. WASTE (tonnes) Australia – materials diverted from landfill 2015 2016 2017 2018 4 PROSPERITY Food waste to composting or energy 17,359 15,791 16,877 16,187 Food to charity 2,956 3,231 4,015 4,062 Cardboard 192,170 218,535 222,145 229,821 Plastic film 7,028 8,226 9,232 9,088 5 Polystyrene 3 – – – Other 131 47 296 46 Total Australia 219,647 245,830 252,565 259,204 SUSTAINABILITY New Zealand – materials diverted from landfill 2015 1 2016 2017 2018 METRICS Food waste to farmers 807 787 768 1,265 Food to charity 2 509 509 509 1,895 Cardboard 25,324 26,057 26,709 28,219 Plastic film 1,253 1,307 1,296 1,412 Other 435 440 1,193 836 Total NZ 28,328 29,100 30,475 33,627 Total diverted 247,975 274,930 283,040 292,831 Total Waste to landfill 105,905 1 FY15 total excluded Farmers and charity. 2 2018 Food waste to farmers and charity metholody has been updated from prior years. 58 Workplace metrics BOARD OF DIRECTORS AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 0 0 0 25-<35 0 0 0 35-<45 0 0 0 45-<55 2 2 4 55-<65 1 0 1 >65 1 2 3 Total 4 4 8 FEMALE REPRESENTATION BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 1 Directors 50% Executives 31% Senior Managers 29% Managers 41% Office support 56% Technicians and trades 11% Sales 59% Other 18% RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF FEMALE TO MALE EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 1 This table averages all the salaries within the non-managerial or managerial category. Within each category, there are different roles and levels of positions. The ratio to average reported here does not compare like-with-like roles and does not represent the Pay Parity Project on page 14. 2018 2017 AVERAGE AVERAGE ANNUALISED RATIO TO ANNUALISED RATIO TO SALARY AVERAGE SALARY AVERAGE Non-managerial Female $47,412.27 97.05% $ 46,122 97.20% Non-managerial Male $50,638.30 103.65% $ 49,114 103.50% Average Salary $48,854.17 $ 47,467 Managerial Female $77,282.05 92.40% $73,380 92.80% Managerial Male $87,952.71 105.16% $82,582 104.50% Average Salary $83,635.69 $79,033 RESPECT AND DIGNITY We expect our employees to treat each other, our customers and our suppliers with respect and dignity. We train our employees on these expectations, but sometimes we do have issues which escalate to external jurisdictions. We are working towards a resolution on the outstanding claims. DISCRIMINATION No of claims lodged in Australia during the year 20 Number resolved in financial year 18 1 This is extracted from the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) report with an extraction date of 1/1/2018 and is for Australian based team members only. 59 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION We have longstanding relationships with the unions that represent our employees, and 80% of our workforce is covered by Enterprise Agreement (EA). GROUP EA EMPLOYEES TOTAL HEADCOUNT % ALH (Venue & Support) 0 10,960 0.0% 1 BIG W 15,771 17,584 89.7% Endeavour Drinks Group 6,864 14,105 48.7% Food Group 130,394 149,129 87.4% Statewide Independent Wholesalers 2 326 360 90.6% PERFORMANCE Group Support 6,761 9,384 72.0% Total Employees 160,116 201,522 80.0% HIGHLIGHTS 2 Wholesale customer stores. WORKFORCE AND TURNOVER 2 PEOPLE HEADCOUNT BY BUSINESS UNIT GROUP/BRAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL ALH (Venue & Support) 6,155 4,805 10,960 BIG W 12,133 5,451 17,584 Endeavour Drinks Group Food Group 5,303 83,502 8,802 65,627 14,105 149,129 3 PLANET Statewide Independent Wholesalers 3 29 331 360 Group Support 2,136 7,248 9,384 TOTAL 109,258 92,264 201,522 3 Wholesale customer stores. HEADCOUNT BY EMPLOYEE TYPE 4 PROSPERITY FEMALE MALE TOTAL Full-time 25,682 32,397 58,079 Part-time 52,204 31,104 83,308 Casual 31,372 28,763 60,135 5 Total 109,258 92,264 201,522 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 60 Workplace metrics (continued) HEADCOUNT BY REGION REGION FEMALE MALE TOTAL ACT 1,324 1,504 2,828 NSW 31,978 27,870 59,848 NT 1,052 873 1,925 QLD 22,817 17,383 40,200 SA 5,964 5,924 11,888 TAS 2,747 2,099 4,846 VIC 23,266 21,389 44,655 WA 9,575 6,837 16,412 NZ 10,235 8,195 18,430 China 292 171 463 Bangladesh 4 17 21 Thailand 4 2 6 Total 109,258 92,264 201,522 WORKFORCE BY AGE AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 36,646 38,111 74,757 25-<35 22,222 24,727 46,949 35-<45 18,211 14,234 32,445 45-<55 17,760 8,916 26,676 55-<65 12,305 5,172 17,477 >65 2,114 1,104 3,218 Total 109,258 92,264 201,522 TURNOVER BY REGION TOTAL NUMBER CEASED EMPLOYMENT % LABOUR TURNOVER FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL ACT 350 417 767 27% 29% 28% NSW 6,824 7,058 13,882 21% 25% 23% NT 380 395 775 37% 46% 41% QLD 5,941 5,367 11,308 26% 30% 28% SA 1,234 1,436 2,670 21% 24% 22% TAS 456 456 912 16% 22% 19% VIC 4,740 5,429 10,169 20% 25% 23% WA 2,277 2,029 4,306 24% 30% 26% NZ 2,809 2,943 5,752 25% 33% 28% China 106 60 166 36% 36% 36% Bangladesh 0 4 4 0% 22% 20% Thailand 0 2 2 0% 104% 35% Total 25,117 25,596 50,713 23% 27% 25% 61 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 TURNOVER BY AGE TOTAL NUMBER CEASED EMPLOYMENT % LABOUR TURNOVER AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 12,664 13,211 25,875 33% 33% 33% 25-<35 5,703 7,211 12,914 26% 29% 27% 35-<45 2,860 2,682 5,542 16% 19% 17% 45-<55 55-<65 2,166 1,270 1,436 766 3,602 2,036 12% 11% 16% 15% 13% 12% 1 PERFORMANCE >65 454 290 744 22% 27% 24% Total 25,117 25,596 50,713 23% 27% 25% HIGHLIGHTS NEW HIRES BY REGION 2 TOTAL NEW HIRES REGION FEMALE MALE TOTAL Australian Capital Territory 399 485 884 New South Wales 7,831 7,710 15,541 PEOPLE Northern Territory 453 401 854 Queensland 6,010 5,022 11,032 South Australia 1,353 1,370 2,723 3 Tasmania 432 431 863 Victoria 4,752 5,161 9,913 Western Australia 2,382 2,173 4,555 New Zealand 2,514 2,957 5,471 PLANET China 78 37 115 Bangladesh 1 1 2 Thailand 2 1 3 Total 26,207 25,749 51,956 4 PROSPERITY NEW HIRES BY AGE TOTAL NEW HIRES AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 14,831 16,010 30,841 25-<35 5,457 5,764 11,221 35-<45 45-<55 3,044 2,066 2,268 1,097 5,312 3,163 5 SUSTAINABILITY 55-<65 770 531 1,301 >65 39 79 118 METRICS Total 26,207 25,749 51,956 PARENTAL LEAVE 1 We continue to offer paid parental leave to eligible Australian-based employees, which includes six weeks paid parental leave, two weeks’ return-to-work bonus and up to 104 weeks unpaid parental leave. All employees are eligible if they have completed six months of continuous service prior to taking the leave or if they qualify as an eligible casual employee. 2018 2017 ON PARENTAL TEAM MEMBER ON PARENTAL TEAM MEMBER LEAVE IN PERIOD STILL EMPLOYED 2 LEAVE IN PERIOD STILL EMPLOYED 2 Female 4,373 4,225 4,834 4,621 Male 38 32 23 20 Total 4,411 4,257 4,857 4,641 1 This is extracted from the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) report with an extraction date of 1/1/2018 and is for Australian based team members only. 2 Team members in this category are considered to have either returned from parental leave during the period, or remain on parental leave at period end. 62 Workplace metrics (continued) SAFETY AND HEALTH PERFORMANCE SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEE Safety and health is represented at all levels of the organisation. The Woolworths Group Board and management continues its commitment to laying a strong foundation for the management and oversight of safety and health throughout Woolworths Group. Sound safety and health governance processes and practices provide us all with the opportunity to actively participate in creating our safety and health culture and are a critical element in achieving Woolworths Group’s aspirational goal of achieving ‘Destination ZERO’. These forums include safety reporting to our monthly board meetings, a quarterly Board Sustainability Committee and a monthly agenda item at the Business Executive Committee. The forums review the effectiveness of the business implementation of the Safety, Health and Wellbeing vision, principles, policy, standards, strategy and initiatives, risk processes, resources, information, compliance and assurance. Each Business has a Safety and Health Committee that meets monthly to review safety and health. In addition to this, there are site based Safety and Health Committees comprised of management and team members. % OF WORKFORCE BUSINESS IN COMMITTEES Supermarkets 6.49% Supply Chain 3.22% BIG W 11.58% Metro 3.94% Endeavour Drinks 41.71% Corporate 4.50% Woolworths New Zealand 14.87% ALH Hotels 16.82% Woolworths Group 1 10.42% 1 Fuel is excluded. BUSINESS RESULTS FOR 2018 BUSINESS LTIFR RESULTS BUSINESS TRIFR RESULTS FOR 2018 PER MILLION PER 200,000 PER MILLION PER 200,000 BUSINESS UNITS HRS HRS % FEMALE HRS HRS % FEMALE Supermarkets 7.15 1.43 60% 13.43 2.69 63% Supply Chain 13.37 2.67 22% 30.31 6.06 20% BIG W 4.38 0.88 78% 8.35 1.67 80% Metro 3.31 0.66 43% 9.46 1.89 55% Endeavour Drinks 6.12 1.22 50% 12.24 2.45 49% Corporate 0.90 0.18 33% 1.80 0.36 33% Woolworths New Zealand 9.57 1.91 N/A 13.15 2.63 N/A ALH Hotels 13.07 2.61 57% 22.63 4.53 56% Woolworths Group 1 7.74 1.55 56% 14.16 2.83 56% 1 Fuel is excluded. 63 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 WOOLWORTHS GROUP LIMITED LTIFR FOR FY2016–2018 KPI 2016 1 2017 1 2018 LTIFR (Million hours worked) 10.25 9.09 7.74 LTIFR (200,000 hours worked) 2.05 1.82 1.55 % change on previous year -14.72% -11.34% -14.87% 1 1 Previous year numbers have been updated to reflect any delayed reporting. PERFORMANCE WOOLWORTHS GROUP LIMITED TRIFR FOR FY2016–2018 KPI 2016 1 2017 1 2018 TRIFR (million hours worked) 19.44 17.16 14.16 HIGHLIGHTS TRIFR (200,000 hours worked) 3.89 3.43 2.83 2 % change on previous year -15.44% -11.73% -17.46% 1 Previous year numbers have been updated to reflect any delayed reporting. 2018 PEOPLE Occupational Disease Rate (200,000 hours) 2 0.85 2 Excludes Fuel, ALH Hotels and Woolworths NZ. WORK RELATED FATALITIES 3 PLANET Tragically, there have been two fatalities in the last year: • a patron at the Sail and Anchor pub in WA passed away after he fell from a first story balcony in July 2017 • a security guard contractor at our Countdown store in Papakura passed away after being assaulted by a suspected shoplifter outside the store in May 2018. Employee work related fatalities 0 4 Contractor fatalities 1 PROSPERITY Customer/Visitor fatalities 1 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 64 Workplace metrics (continued) RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RISK SEGMENTATION While Woolworths Group operations and supply chains are complex, our aim is to ensure that human rights are respected and understood. For us, responsible sourcing is not about auditing all suppliers in scope of the Standards; it is about taking a targeted and informed approach in sectors where there are known risks and where we have limited visibility. To this end, we will conduct an annual supplier risk assessment. This assessment is based on a number of factors including country risk, third-party social compliance data and the nature of the supplier arrangement. Based on this assessment, suppliers will be categorised into four risk segments and this segmentation will determine the activities suppliers are required to complete in order to verify compliance with the Standards. A risk-based and leverage-driven approach helps to prioritise supplier engagements Extreme by likelihood of influence supported by information on inherent sourcing risks to MODERATE PRIORITY optimise program impacts. High METHODOLOGY RISK LEVERAGE RISK 50% 25% Medium Inherent country Length of business risks from public relationship MINIMUM SPECIALISED domain data (e.g. World Bank, Global 40% Slavery Index, $ spend amongst Low Transparency peer suppliers in International, etc.) each business unit 50% 35% D C B A $ spend trend over ELEVATE audit data the past 3 years LEVERAGE During the FY18 we conducted 130 Woolworths Ethical Audits. ETHICAL AUDIT STATUS (PER SITE) Conditionally approved 78% Approved 18% At risk 4% CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN SEVERITY (PER NON‑CONFORMANCE) Major 767 Minor 198 Critical 45 65 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Corporate Governance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE, THE BOARD AND DIRECTORS Corporate governance is at the core of Woolworths Group’s and the board’s approach to the enhancement of shareholder value and the protection of shareholder funds. Integral to shareholder value is protecting and enhancing our reputation, which is why the board oversees the Company’s approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability. The Woolworths Board Sustainability Committee, which meets quarterly, reviews performance on issues of Safety and Health, 1 Sustainability and Community Investment. The Sustainability Committee conducts regular site visits across our businesses. Information on our Board of Directors and the Board Charter is at: https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about-us/our-leadership-team/board-of-directors/ PERFORMANCE Information on our Sustainability Committee and its charter is at: HIGHLIGHTS https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about-us/our-leadership-team/board-committees/ More information is in our corporate governance statement: https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about-us/our-approach/corporate-governance/ 2 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The continued growth and success of Woolworths Group depends on the ability of our Company to understand and respond to PEOPLE the challenges of an uncertain and changing world. As a large, dispersed and complex organisation, this uncertainty generates risk, with the potential to be a source of both opportunities and threats. By understanding and managing risk, the Group provides greater certainty and confidence for all its stakeholders. More information about our approach to risk management is in our risk management policy. See: http://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/icms_docs/182376_Risk_Management_Policy.pdf 3 SENIOR MANAGEMENT The Woolworths Group Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, provides management oversight of the PLANET effectiveness of the Group’s implementation of the safety and health vision, principles, policy, standards, strategy and initiatives, risk processes, resources, information, compliance and assurance. DOING THE RIGHT THING All our employees commit to our Code of Conduct to maintain the highest legal, moral and ethical standards in our dealings 4 PROSPERITY with customers, suppliers, employees and local communities. This code outlines how employees can meet the highest standards through their everyday behaviours and choices. We are committed to continuous improvement, transparency and accountability. We don’t tolerate workplace misconduct under any circumstances and we need our trade partners to work with us to stamp out any and every instance. We have 5 clear, long‑standing and accepted procedures for trade partners to report any issues. However we recognise there is always opportunity to strengthen our systems. Our Speak Up service is available for team members and trade partners to use when normal escalation methods have been exhausted or are inappropriate. SUSTAINABILITY POLITICAL DONATIONS METRICS Woolworths Group participates in policy development and advocacy in a manner that is open, transparent, and compliant with all relevant laws. We do so in a non-partisan manner. Woolworths Group does not make political donations except through attendance at events, functions and forums organised by parliamentarians and political parties. This is overseen by the Chief Executive Officer and the Head of Government and Industry Affairs in accordance with the Woolworths Group Political Donations Policy and applicable electoral laws. TRANSPARENCY AND REPORTING Woolworths uses the globally recognised reporting framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI reporting framework sets out the principles and indicators that organisations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. More information can be found in the GRI Index starting on page 68. We continue to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an investor-driven disclosure initiative enabling companies to report on risk identification and mitigation processes related to climate change. We are a signatory to the United National Global Compact (UNGC). The Index on page 67 shows our approach to the UNGC core values. 66 Glossary TERM MEANING Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) A standard measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based on their global warming potential. For example, one tonne of methane emissions is equivalent to 21 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax – total earnings before provisions are deducted. This measures a company’s performance and is often used in preference to net profit as it excludes the effects of borrowings and tax benefits and adjustments. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) FSC is an independent, not-for-profit organisation which promotes responsible management of the world’s forests. Refer to fsc.org or fscaustralia.org.au Lost Time Injury (LTI) and Lost Time A lost time injury (LTI) is recorded against the date of the original incident after an Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) employee loses a full shift from work; this may be some time after the incident. The formula for Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of LTIs in a 12 month period divided by hours worked in a 12 month period multiplied by 1,000,000. MWh Megawatt hours is a unit of measurement for electricity use, referring to the amount of electricity needed to supply power to 1,000 homes for one hour. National Greenhouse and Energy NGER establishes a national framework for Australian corporations to report Reporting Act 2007 (NGER) greenhouse gas emissions, reductions, removals and offsets, and energy consumption and production. Refer to climatechange.gov.au/reporting/publications Scope 1 emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company, such as combustion facilities (e.g. generators) and combustion of fuels in company‑owned or company‑controlled transport (e.g. cars and trucks). Scope 2 emissions Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, cooling or steam. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is bought or otherwise brought into the organisational boundary of the entity. Scope 3 emissions Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions that are a consequence of a company’s activities, but that arise from sources that other entities own or control. Scope 3, like Scope 2, is a category of indirect emissions and covers all other indirect emissions from sources that are not owned or controlled by a company, but that occur as a result of its activities. Examples include emissions from waste disposal to landfill. Sustainable Development Goals 17 global goals set by the United Nations in 2015 to define global sustainable (SDG) development priorities and aspirations for the planet. Total Recordable Injury (TRI) and At Woolworths Group, a Total Recordable Injury (TRI) is the sum of the total number Total Recorable Injury Frequency of fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries and medical treatment injuries Rate (TRIFR) within a given period. The formula for Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) is the addition of the number of Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries, Restricted Work Injuries, and Medical Treatment Injuries in a 12 month period divided by hours worked in a 12 month period multiplied by 1,000,000. 67 WOOLWORTHS GROUP United Nations Global Compact SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRINCIPLES ACTIONS PAGE Human Rights Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights Responsible Sourcing framework 42–43 Principle 2 No Complicity in Human Rights Abuse Responsible Sourcing framework 42–43 Labour Principle 3 1 PERFORMANCE Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Responsible Sourcing framework 42–43 Freedom of association and Union Engagement 59 HIGHLIGHTS Principle 4 Elimination of Forced and Compulsory Labour Responsible Sourcing framework 42–43 Principle 5 Abolition of Child Labour Principle 6 Elimination of Discrimination Responsible Sourcing framework Diversity and equal opportunity 42–43 14–19, 22–23, 58 2 PEOPLE Environment Principle 7 Precautionary Approach No explicit reference to precautionary approach Approach to risk management 65 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility Planet 24–37 3 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies Technology addressing climate change, water conservation, PLANET transport and packaging 24–37 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Work against Corruption Anti-corruption 65 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 68 Global Reporting Initiative DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE REFERENCE GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization Front cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2018 annual report 102-3 Location of headquarters 76 102-4 Location of operations Contents 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 annual report 102-6 Markets served 2018 annual report 102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 annual report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 58–64 102-9 Supply chain 40–43 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain GRI Index 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI Index 102-12 External initiatives 12–23, 24–37, 38–55, 65, 67 102-13 Membership of associations 12–23, 24–37, 38–55, 65 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 3 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 8–9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 56–59 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 8–9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8–9, 65 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8–9, 65 102-18 Governance structure 2018 annual report, 65 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2018 annual report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 65, GRI Index 102-47 List of material topics 8–9 102-48 Restatements of information GRI Index 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI Index 102-50 Reporting period Contents 102-51 Date of most recent report Jun-17 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 76 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI Index 102-55 GRI content index 68–70, GRI Index 102-56 External assurance 71–74 69 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE REFERENCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8–9, 12–23, 24–37, 38–55, GRI Index 103-2 The management approach and its components 3, 8–9, 65, 2020 Strategy, GRI Index 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 annual report, 12–23, 24–37, 38–55, 65, GRI Index 1 PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2018 annual report HIGHLIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION 2 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI Index ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR PEOPLE 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI Index ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index 3 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index 302-3 Energy intensity 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index PLANET 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index 4 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index PROSPERITY 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 24–37, 56–59, GRI Index EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 5 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 26–29, 56–59, GRI Index 306-3 Significant spills GRI Index SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI Index EMPLOYMENT METRICS 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 58–64 401-3 Parental leave 58–64, GRI Index LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI Index OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 58–64 committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 20–21, 58–64, GRI Index absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 70 Global Reporting Initiative (continued) DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE REFERENCE TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 16–17 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 58–64 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 58–64 NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 58–64, GRI Index FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 40–43, 58–64, GRI Index collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOUR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 40–43, GRI Index FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 40–43, GRI Index labour HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 40–43, 58–64, GRI Index assessments PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions 65 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of GRI Index products and services MARKETING AND LABELING 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling GRI Index CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 65, GRI Index of customer data 71 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Assurance report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ABN 74 490 121 060 Grosvenor Place 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 1 PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place Sydney NSW 1220 Australia PERFORMANCE Tel: +61 2 9365 7000 Fax: +61 2 9322 7001 HIGHLIGHTS www.deloitte.com.au 2 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF WOOLWORTHS GROUP LIMITED IN RELATION TO 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on the application of Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI)’ information and other criteria contained in Woolworths Group Limited’s (‘Woolworths’) 2018 Sustainability Report as detailed in the table below (the ‘Subject Matter’), in order to state whether anything has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria described in the table below (‘Reporting Criteria’). 3 SUBJECT MATTER AND REPORTING CRITERIA PLANET The Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria for our limited assurance engagement for the year ended 30 June 2018 is as follows: SUBJECT MATTER REPORTING CRITERIA GRI Standards disclosures GRI Standards disclosures prepared in accordance with the ‘Core’ GRI Standards and related information, 4 requirements of the GRI Standards as set out in the GRI Index publicly available at GRI’s global website at PROSPERITY on pages 68–70. www.globalreporting.org Selected Indicator Data Relevant GRI Standards and Woolworths’ The following selected sustainability indicator data for 2018 included definitions, and approaches as described in the 5 within the 2018 Sustainability Report for the specific standard disclosure GRI Index on pages 68–70, and on Woolworths’ requirements of the GRI Standards (‘Selected Indicator Data’): website at www.woolworthsgroup.com.au SUSTAINABILITY • Energy (302-1, 302-2, 302-3 and 302-4) on pages 24–37 and 56–59 • Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 and 305-5) on pages 24–37 METRICS and 56–59 • Effluents and waste (306-2) on pages 26–29 and 56–59 • Employment (401-1 and 401-3) on pages 58–64 • Occupational Health & Safety (403-2) on pages 20–21 and 58–64 • Non-discrimination (406-1) on page 58–64 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/au/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited © 2018 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. All rights reserved. 72 Assurance report (continued) Sustainability Targets The following FY2018 performance data included within Woolworths’ Woolworths’ definitions, and approaches as Sustainability Targets and commitments as contained in the People, described in the People, Planet and Prosperity Planet and Prosperity sections within the 2018 Sustainability Report: sections of Woolworths’ 2018 Sustainability Report and on Woolworths website at • People: Team members & Board diversity www.woolworthsgroup.com.au • Planet: Food saved for meals & Stores with upgraded hybrid or HFC free refrigeration systems • Prosperity: Own brand products undergone a nutritional renovation, Woolworths own brand products with a health star rating & Cash donations. WOOLWORTHS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors of Woolworths are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the 2018 Sustainability Report which includes the Subject Matter in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate reporting criteria; maintaining adequate records and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. OUR RESPONSIBILITIES Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion as to whether we have become aware of any matter causing us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been prepared, in all materials respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. We conducted our procedures to provide our limited assurance conclusion in accordance with Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (ASAE 3000), issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Subject Matter, whether due to fraud or error. In making these risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to Woolworths’ preparation of the Sustainability Report as it relates to the Subject Matter in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the effectiveness of Woolworths’ internal controls. ASSURANCE WORK PERFORMED A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included enquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. The procedures that we performed were based on our professional judgement and included: • Review of Woolworths’ processes relating to stakeholder identification, engagement and responsiveness, including an assessment of stakeholder engagement outcomes and how this process and the outcomes have been presented in the 2018 Sustainability Report. • Review of Woolworths’ process to identify and determine material issues to be included in the 2018 Sustainability Report with examination of underlying assessments and evidence on a sample basis. • Interviews with a selection of Woolworths’ executives and senior management, including Woolworths’ Sustainability management team concerning the overall governance structure, corporate sustainability strategy and policies used for managing and reporting sustainability performance across the business. 73 Assurance report (continued) WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 • In respect of the Sustainability Targets and Selected Indicator Data: –– interviews ­ with a selection of Woolworths’ management responsible for the Sustainability Targets and Selected Indicator Data to understand the compilation and review processes. –– applying ­ analytical and other review procedures including assessing relationships between the reported information and other financial and non-financial data. –– ­ examination of evidence for a small number of transactions or events. –– analysing ­ and inspecting on a sample basis, the key systems, processes and procedures and controls relating to the collation, validation, presentation and approval process of the information included in the Report. –– reviewing ­ underlying evidence on a sample basis to corroborate that the information is prepared and reported in line with 1 PERFORMANCE the relevant Reporting Criteria. • Comparison of the content of Woolworths’ 2018 Sustainability Report against the criteria for a GRI self-declaration HIGHLIGHTS The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether Woolworths’ subject matter has been prepared, 2 PEOPLE in all material respects with the criteria. INHERENT LIMITATIONS Non-financial information, including the Subject Matter may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. The Subject Matter should be read in the context of Woolworths’ Reporting Criteria as set out in the 2018 3 PLANET Sustainability Report. USE OF OUR REPORT Our assurance report has been prepared solely for the directors of Woolworths’. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility 4 for any reliance on this report or on the Subject Matter to which it relates, to any person other than the directors of Woolworths or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. PROSPERITY OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL We have complied with the relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1, and accordingly Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements 5 MATTERS RELATING TO ELECTRONIC PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Our limited assurance engagement included web-based information that was available via web links as of the date of this statement. We provide no assurance over changes to the content of the Report after the date of this assurance statement. 74 Assurance report (continued) CONCLUSION Based on the procedures performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Woolworths’: • GRI Standards disclosures as set out in the GRI Index, are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the ‘Core’ requirements of the GRI Standards; and • Selected Indicator Data, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the specific standard disclosure requirements of the relevant GRI Standards and Woolworths’ definitions, and approaches as described in the GRI Index. • Sustainability Targets Data, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Woolworths’ definitions, and approaches as described in the People, Planet and Prosperity section of Woolworths’ 2018 Sustainability report and on Woolworths’ website at www.woolworthsgroup.com.au. DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU Paul Dobson Partner Sydney, 20 August 2018 75 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Store analysis SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FIVE YEAR STORE AND TRADING AREA ANALYSIS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 YEAR ENDED 24 JUNE 2018 FULL FULL FULL FULL FULL STORES (NUMBER) YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR Continuing operations NSW & ACT 317 312 303 292 282 QLD 234 234 237 230 225 VIC SA & NT 249 79 244 80 242 84 234 82 224 80 1 PERFORMANCE WA 98 94 94 92 89 TAS 31 31 32 31 31 HIGHLIGHTS Australian Supermarkets 1,008 995 992 961 931 New Zealand Supermarkets 181 184 184 177 171 2 Total Supermarkets 1,189 1,179 1,176 1,138 1,102 Thomas Dux – 3 5 9 11 Freestanding Liquor (incl. Dan Murphy’s) 398 387 373 359 349 Attached Liquor 560 550 544 527 509 PEOPLE ALH Retail Liquor Outlets 585 580 569 557 544 Summergate 2 2 2 2 – Woolworths Petrol 1 – – – 513 499 Caltex/Woolworths Petrol Total Food, Petrol & Endeavour Drinks Group 2,734 – 2,701 – 2,669 – 3,105 – 131 3,145 3 BIG W 183 185 186 184 182 PLANET Hotels (includes clubs) 323 329 331 330 329 EziBuy (Unallocated) – – 5 5 4 Home Timber & Hardware (retail) – – – – 28 Masters Total continuing operations 3,240 – – 3,215 – 3,191 – 3,624 49 3,737 4 Discontinued operations PROSPERITY Woolworths Petrol 534 531 527 – – Home Improvement – – 106 102 – 5 Total Group 3774 3,746 3,824 3,726 3,737 Wholesale customer stores SUSTAINABILITY (continuing operations) Super Value and Fresh Choice 69 65 64 60 59 Home Timber & Hardware wholesale – – – – 475 METRICS Statewide Independent Wholesale 220 220 220 220 220 Total continuing operations 289 285 284 280 754 Discontinued operations (Home Timber & Hardware wholesale) – – 349 452 – Total wholesale customer stores 289 285 633 732 754 Trading area (sqm) 2 Australian Food 2,281,866 2,252,709 2,229,714 2,143,082 – Endeavour Drinks Group 460,841 446,083 430,691 413,409 – New Zealand Supermarkets 405,274 415,970 417,966 397,889 – BIG W 1,046,333 1,055,838 1,061,413 1,051,159 – 1 In 2014 three distribution centres were included in store numbers. 2 As a result of separating the trading performance of Australian Food & Petrol and Endeavour Drinks Group, we are now disclosing separate trading area for Australian Food and Endeavour Drinks Group. FY15 trading area has been restated on the same basis and is no longer comparable to previously reported data. 76 Company directory REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Woolworths Way Bella Vista NSW 2153 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Web: www.woolworthsgroup.com.au AUDITOR Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Tel: (02) 9322 7000 Web: www.deloitte.com.au WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY Alex Holt General Manager, Quality, Health & Sustainability Fiona Walmsley Senior Manager, Group Sustainability Designed and produced by ArmstrongQ ArmstrongQ.com.au We are constantly s to innovating to meet We look for way y – changing needs. da improve every omers, st better for our cu unities. team and co m m We create better experiences together that better peopleʼs lives. periences It's both the retail exwe make and the experiences s' lives. possible in customer We work seamlessly as one team , leveraging our strength as a Group.
